                                                                                                OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                                 R2003-0159/1

                                                                                                              August 20,2003




                                                                                     StreamlinedProcedure
                                                                                          For meeting of
                                                                           Board: Tuesday, September9,2003


FROM: The Acting Corporate Secretary

                            China: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

                                            Project Appraisal Document



          Attached is the Project Appraisal Document regarding a proposed loan to the People's
Republic of China for a Basic Education in Western Areas Project (R2003-0159). This project
will be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, September 9,2003 under
the Streamlined Procedure.




Distribution:

  Executive Directors and Alternates
  President
  Bank Group Senior Management
  Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
  Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                                 Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                       ReportNo: 25172




                                    PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                                             PROPOSEDLOAN

                                   INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$100MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                      PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                   FORA

                            BASIC EDUCATION INWESTERN AREAS PROJECT


                                               August 13,2003




Human DevelopmentSector Unit
EastAsia and PacificRegion



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 22,2002)
                 Currency Unit = Renminbi (RBM)
                     RMB 1.0 = US$0.12
                        US$1 = RMB 8.26

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 -- December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CEP                         Chinese Experts Panel
DFID                        Department for International Development
EMES                        Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy
ERAT                        Education ResearchAdvisory Team
FILO                        Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GBEP                        GansuBasic Education Project
GDP                         Gross National Product
IBm                         International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IDA                         International Development Association
IT                          Information Technology
MBD                         Model BiddingDocuments
MDG                         MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MOE                         Ministry of Education
NCEP                        National Compulsory Education Program
NYCE                        Nine Year Compulsory Education
PED                         Provincial Education Departments
PER                         Provincial Expenditure Review
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PMO                         Project Management Office
SBD                         Standard BiddingDocument
SDP                         School Development Planning
SDRC                        State Development and ReformCommission
SOE                         Statement of Expenditure
SYCE                        Six Year Compulsory Education
TOR                         Terms of Reference

                Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
      Country Managermirector:     Yukon Huang, EACCF
       Sector ManagedDirector:     Emmanuel Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Eduardo Velez Bustillo, EASHD

                                                                    FOROFFICLALUSEONLY                !




                                                      CHINA
                             BASIC EDUCATIONINWESTERN AREAS PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




      A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

         1. Project development objective                                                       3
         2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project       3
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
         3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                 12
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
         3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
         4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15

      D.Project Rationale

         1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                           17
         2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      19
         3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                20
         4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   2 1
         5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        21

      E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

         1. Economic                                                                           22
         2. Financial                                                                          23
         3. Technical                                                                          24
         4. Institutional                                                                      25
         5. Environmental                                                                      26
         6. Social                                                                             27
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30



This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F.Sustainability and Risks
                                                                                         ~




  1. Sustainability                                                                       3 1
  2. Critical risks                                                                       31
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       32


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              34
  2. Other                                                                                34

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                            35

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              36



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     58
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                     59
          (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                           65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             79
Annex 11:Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy                                             81
Annex 12: Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy Matrix                                     88




MAP(S)
IBRDMap 32722

                                                        CHINA
                                        Basic Education in Western Areas Project
                                          Project AppraisalDocument
                                              East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                        EASHD

bate: August 13, 2003                                       Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
ector ManagerDirector: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                  Sector(s): Primary education (90%), Central government
Jountry ManagerDirector: Yukon Huang                        administration (10%)
'roject ID: PO73002                                         Theme(s): Education for all (P), Civic engagement,
,ending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)          Participation and CoDUnitY driven development (p)>
                                                            Gender (S), Indigenous peoples (S)


[XI Loan        [ ]Credit        [ ]Grant       [ ]Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United StatesDollar
Amount (US$m): $100.0 Note: The UnitedKingdom's Department for InternationalDevelopment (DFID)has agreed
[o provide to the PRC a grant not exceeding US$34.4 million to be blendedwith an IBRDLoan of US$lOO million to
reduce the effective interest rate to the PRC.
Borrower Rationalefor Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:           Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period(years): 8                                     Years to maturity: 20
                                                           Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                           Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds




BORROWER                                                                   47.34             0.00          47.34
[BRD                                                                       84.05            15.95         100.00
rotai:                                                                    131.39            15.95         147.34

Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2004 Expected closing date: 06/30/2009




                                                  - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

                                          111IbA1)

Improved access to and completion of affordable and quality basic education for poor boys and
girls inSichuan, Gansu, Yunnan Provinces, Ningxia Hui and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Regions.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project resources are targeted to 112 counties inpoor and remote areas of western China. In
project provinces and counties there will be:

    0   increased numbers of counties achieving Six Year Compulsory Education (SYCE) and
        Nine Year Compulsory Education (NYCE);
    0   increased percentage of 15 year-old age children who enroll inprimary education (boys,
        girls, minorities);
    0   increased percentage of 15 year-old age children who complete primary education (boys,
        girls, minorities);
    0   a decrease inthe gender gap inprimary andjunior secondary education enrollment;
    0   increased percentage of 17 year year-old age group who enroll injunior secondary school
        (boys, girls, minorities);
    0   increased percentage of 17 year year-old age group who completejunior secondary school
        (boys, girls, minorities);
    0   improvement inlearning achievement as measured by pass rates inmath and Chinese
        language (boys, girls, minorities);
    0   increases in the number of poor boys, girls and minorities receiving fee exemptions (from
        parallel Government funding);
    0   increases in the number of poor boys, girls and minorities receiving free textbooks (from
        parallel Government funding);
    0   increased qualification rate of primary school teachers; and
    0   increased qualification rate ofjunior secondary teachers.

 Inaddition,

        National or provincial standards for equipment, books per student and classroom furniture
         will be met by all project schools;
        Local communities will become more involved inlocal school activities through
         introduction of school basedmanagement (SDP) techniques at the local level; and
         Administrative and management capacity will be strengthened within Ministry of
         Education (MOE) and provincial and county education bureaus.

 B. Strategic Context
 1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
 Document number: R2002-0218CAS for Board Presentation 12/19/02      Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/19/02
 The Bank's new CAS has a continuing emphasis on basic education and skills development,
 particularly in the poor areas of western China. This complements the United Kingdom (UK)


                                                 - 3 -

Department for International Development's (DFID)new Country Strategy which also seeks to
improve access to quality and affordable basic education for poor boys and girls and ethnic
                                       China. Improvedbasic education win enable disadvantaged
groups, including a highproportionof the minority population, to take advantage of economic
(employment and income diversification) and social opportunities.

The project i s targeted on some of the poorer communities in five western provinces to increase
the access to quality primary andjunior secondary schooling where enrollment and completion
rates have laggedbehind. It works inparallel with the Government's own support to ensuring
affordable access to schools for poor boys and girls. This strategy supports the Government's
own policy goals of universal completion of nine years of compulsory education by the year 2010
which are includedin the Government's Tenth Five Year Plan.

2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:
Background. Educational progress inChinahasbeenimpressive. With reportedenrollment of
 135 millionpupils and 5.9 million teachers in about 582,000 primary schools in 1999, China runs
the largest primary school system in the world. At the junior secondary level there are 63,100
 schools with an enrollment of 58.2 millionpupils and 3.1 million teachers. In2001 the reported
overall national net enrollment rates for the first six years of schooling were approximately 99.1
percent of the 6-11age cohort enrolled inprimary education, and more than 88.7 percent of the
 12-15 age cohorts injunior secondary schools. Of the primary graduates, 94.4 percent reportedly
 went on to middle school (regular or vocational). A significant consequence of these high
 enrollment figures i s the low national illiteracy rate: 8.7 percent of those above 15 years of age
 and about 4.8 percent among those between 15 and 50 years of age.

 However, these figures mask disparities inbasic education development, with notable
 imbalances in the availability of educational services between the economically advanced and
 underdeveloped regions. Generally, urban and coastal areas have achieved the goal of nine-year
 compulsory education (NYCE),but many poor, sparsely-populated and remote areas have not yet
 achievedprimaryeducation targets. Schooling inpoor counties i s markedby poor attendance
 and highrepetition and drop-out rates. Net enrollment and completion rates in all five provinces
 and autonomousregions inthe proposedproject lag far behindthe rest of China. While the
 national average completion rate in 1999 was estimated to be 90.5 percent, one Gansu county
 surveyedby the social assessment team it was found to be only 63 percent. The actual disparities
 are very likely larger than these numbers would indicate given that there i s still a need to improve
 the quality of education statistics, especially inpoor rural areas. Ethnic minorities, girls, and
 disabled children are the most educationally disadvantaged. For example, a study of 25 minority
 counties shows that the gross enrollment rate of school aged minority children was 20 percentage
 points lower than the national mean. Disabled children are the most disadvantaged with the
 majority of them being out of school. Poverty and prejudice play a role, but the low enrollment
 rates also reflect the difficulty in integrating children with special needs into mainstream
 education. Additional resources and teacher training are needed, as special schools will only ever
 provide education for a very small proportion of rural disabled children.




                                                    - A -

Important to the design and targeting strategies of this investment project have been the findings
of the Banks latest sector work on Chinese education, "Strategic Goals for Chinese Education in
the Z l s t Century" Keport No. 18969-CHA - November 1999. The report's primary
recommendation as relates to basic education was that "..to ensure that there are adequate
resources for the weakest parts of the system, especially in the poor rural areas, in order to
provide increased access to high-quality basic education to all." The report stated a number of
short-, medium- and long-term priorities. The most immediate priority was to provide increased
fundingfor the poorestparts of Chinato increase accessto quality basic education for all of
China's poorest children. A corollary priority was the introduction of more effective outcome
indicators to assure the government that efficiencies are being achieved. It i s with this strong
poverty focus, emphasis on increasing resources, both financial and human, attention to effective
outcome indicators, and an overall concern for quality that the proposedproject has been
preparedby the Government with support from the Bank and DFIDpreparation team.

Main Sector Issues. The barriers to universalizingbasic education inpoor counties are:

(a) Financing. Inadequate fundingof the rural education system i s the key challenge and it i s an
underlying cause for many of the other problems faced by the education sector. To a great extent,
this is rootedinChina's highly decentralizedfiscal systemwhich assigns the mainresponsibility
for financing local services to county and district governments. Consequently, there are great
disparities betweenregions and counties in terms of the standard and coverage of education
services, with poor, rural counties suffering the most.

Low investment inpoor, rural areas translates into weak and deteriorating school facilities,
insufficientsupplies of equipment and instructional materials, shortages of funds for
non-personnel costs (such as heating and clean water), and a lack of professional development
opportunities for teachers.

The budget problems also affect recurrent expenditures. Poor areas face difficulties inrecruiting
or retaining high quality teachers. In all project provinces, between 10 and 30 percent of teachers
are temporary daike (substitute) teachers. On average daike teachers have lower levels of
education and are paid substantially less than normal teachers. Daike teachers are normally
found in the more remote rural communities. Teacher salaries are often in arrears for extended
periods of time. Inrural areas there i s a nominal budget for non-personnel costs but funds very
rarely reach the school level.

The low level of public spending on education results inmuch of the financial burden of
non-salary education being absorbed by parents in the form of school fees and charges. For the
more than 230 millionpeople living on less than US$1per day, the cost of education can be very
high. The costs are especially highfor ethnic minority families who tendto be poorer and have
larger families on average. Preliminary analysis of data from the household survey which was
done as part of the project economic and financial analysis found in the areas of Sichuan and
Guangxi sampledby the study that the average private educational spending for primary school
 students living at home to be RMB 311per year per child while this rose to RMB 1,165 for
children inboarding schools (where parents also have to pay for subsistence). Forjunior



                                                 - 5 -

secondary school students costs are roughly RMB 694 per year for students who live at home and
those who board.

Government i s reforming the rules governing extra-budgetary funds. While the policy of
"converting fees into taxes" i s designed to bringextra-budgetary funds into the regular budget
and to reduce the tax burdenon farmers, it could put stress on the education system because the
current system i s heavily dependent on extra-budgetary surcharges and fees. When the reform
was piloted inAnhui province it led to a considerable shortfall infunding for education which
had to be coveredby an additional allocation of central Government funds. The reform i s now
beingpiloted in a number of other provinces (including Sichuan, Gansu and Ningxia in this
proposedproject). Maintaining financing for the education sector i s one of the Government's
"three guarantees" to be safeguarded as part of the reform. However, it i s far from certain that
the central Government will be able to cover shortfalls across the western region should they
emerge and there i s a risk that education and other services could deteriorate.

The Bank`s recent Provincial Expenditure Review (PER)i s instructive on this issue andprovides
insights into the evolving nature of this fee to tax issue. One issue i s that with the end of raising
earmarked education funds, the percentage of new comprehensive county budgets now being
devoted to education may fall as other competing needs have to be considered. Another issue i s
that county-level counterpart fund availability for both domestic and internationally financed
projects may be negatively affected. While taking the heavy tax burden off the farmers inrural
China, additional funds will be necessary from other (i-e.,provincial, national) sources to provide
services at the county level, especially in the social sectors. Some provinces are experimenting
on a pilot basis with equalization schemes (e.g., there i s a three county pilot in Yunnan). The
project will watch carefully for the results of this and other experiments to deal with the
implications of this evolving fee to tax policy.

(b)Enrollment and completion rates. The highaggregate enrollment and completion rates in
Chinamask the fact that in many townships andpoor villages - including those targeted by this
project - a large number of boys and girls are not in school. The problem i s significant in
primary school, and even more so at the junior secondary level. As noted above, girls, ethnic
minorities, and disabled children have the lowest enrollment and completion rates.

The mainreason for children not entering or dropping out of school i s poverty -- parents cannot
 afford the direct and indirect costs of schooling for their children. The economic and financial
 analysis carried out for this project has indicated that the average family spends 20 percent of its
 income on education for children studying in their own communities and 29 percent when
 children need to attend boarding schools. The proportion i s higher for poor families. And
 families with more than one child face particular difficulties, often resulting inhaving to choose
 to send some children to school at the expense of others. Insuch cases girls tend to be the ones
 who miss out due to the prevalence of son-preference inrural areas.

 Another significant cause of low enrollment and completion rates inremote communities i s
 distance to school. This i s particularly important for young girls where international experience
 shows that distance to school i s a major factor in determining enrollment and completion.



                                                  - 6 -

Government's policy i s that children should not travel more than 2.5 kmto school, but this has
not yet been fully realized and many children are still not within easy reach of a primary school.
Sparsely populated rural areas pose the greatest chaflenge. Inthese cases Government has often
resorted to boarding schools. However, as noted above, this also poses problems because the
private costs of boarding are beyond the reach of many families. Added to this are concerns that
families have about the care and safety of their children. The Bank and DFIDhave consistently
urged the Government to consider alternatives to boarding schools, including multi-grade
schools, schools with alternate year intakes, or networks of incomplete satellite feeder schools
and complete core schools.

(c)Student achievement. Learning achievement i s lower inpoor rural areas than inwealthier
urban areas. Contributing factors are the low quality of teaching, as well as the poor teaching
environment (such as poor infrastructure, poor lighting, inadequate heating, etc.) and insufficient
and inappropriate equipment and teaching materials. Many teachers, especially in teaching
points and the more remote communities, are inadequately trained and this i s particularly so for
daike teachers. In-service training opportunities are scarce inrural areas and often come at a
personal expense to teachers. Participation i s difficult, if not impossible, for daike teachers given
their low wages. Furthermore, training courses tend to be strong on subject matter content and
weak on the development of pedagogical skills. The Government i s introducing participatory
teaching techniques throughout the country but the effort has yet to begin inmany rural areas.
Significant work remains to be done inthe training of teachers to meet the needs of children with
physical or learning disabilities.

The language of instruction poses another barrier to learning for some students. The standard of
bilingual education i s highly variable. While well-developed in some areas, mother tongue
curricula of acceptable quality and a good process of transition to the national language are not
always available.

(d) Management Capacity. China's civil service i s strong compared to other developing
countries, but rural areas need to strengthen their capacity to plan, implement, monitor, and
evaluate reform programs if they want to achieve universal basic education. Improved
mechanisms to involve communities inthe planning and implementation of primary education
programs are also required. Specifically, the system needs to be strengthened with more and
better qualifiedplanners, data-processors, statisticians and analysts. Better data on education
financing, school facilities, staff deployment and student outcomes - andbetter analysis of that
data- would contribute to improved policies and greater efficiency inthe system.

(e) Information Technology (IT). There are significant disparities inthe provision of IT between
eastern and western China andbetween rural and urban areas. Narrowingthis gap will require
greater access to materials and support for teachers in more remote areas; tailoring some of the
materials for teachers in low resource situations; and improving linksbetween classroom
teaching and training, especially inrural areas, and more attention to the variability inlearner
levels in distance education. Cost-effectiveness and sustainability concerns should be guiding
principles in the decision to upgrade IT capacities in areas where the budget i s stressed.




                                                 - 7 -

Government Strategy. The Government has put inplace a range of policies and programs to
address the issues identifiedabove. However, it should be notedthat success depends on the
extent to which poor provinces and counties can overcome resource constraints to avail
themselves of programs and ultimately sustain investments made with their support.

(a)Financing. The reform of the local taxation system, with its policy of "converting fees into
taxes" i s a key part of the Government's fiscal reform strategy. A key concern i s the
maintenance of education expenditure at the local level. The national Government i s currently
transferring funds to the provinces to smooth the transition to the new system, and thereby
compensating for some of the lost revenues. The compensation funds are not earmarked by
sector but are meant to cover a variety of local expenditure areas, including education. It i s
intended through the three guarantees that necessary fundingfor rural education be ensured.

Central Government has also put inplace a range of initiatives to fundbasic education inpoor
areas that have not yet achievednine year compulsory education (NYCE). These include two
national compulsory education projects (NCEP). The first - NCEP I- was launched in 1998 with
a budget of RMB 3.9 billion (US$475.6 million). NCEPI1was launched in2001 with a budget
of RMB 5 billion (US$610.0 million). The NCEPprojects provide resources for school
facilities, equipment, learning materials, teacher training, and scholarships for poor students.
NCEPI1requires matching funds from participating counties of 1:OS. Most of the funding from
NCEPI1i s directed to junior secondary rather than primary because the Government recognizes
that there i s a major probleminproviding adequatejunior secondary schooling for the increasing
numbers of primary school graduates. The National Development and Reform Commission
(NDRC), MOF and MOE are also providing approximately RMB 3 billion (US$366 million) for
the rehabilitation of infrastructure inpoor areas. In addition, the Government i s providing free
tuition and school books inborder areas, which are mainly inhabited by ethnic minorities.

However, these initiatives are unable to cover the major funding gap that still exists.
Government budget for education in 2000 amounted to 2.87 percent of GDP, which i s low by
international comparison and short of the national goal of spending 4 percent of GDP on
 education.

 Additional fundingwould improve children's access to school and the quality of teaching.
 Furthermore, the development impact of that funding could be improved with some redefinition
 of the targeting mechanism to ensure that more funds are directed to the still significant number
 of children who do not complete primary school. Currently, a county i s deemed to have achieved
 NYCEandbecomes ineligible for some funding when 85 percent of its children complete lower
 secondary school. However, within many counties that have achieved NYCE, there may still be
 many poor, remote communities with low completion rates. The use of SYCE as a funding
 indicator, with SYCE redefined to mean that 95 percent or more of the children complete
 primary school, would sharpen the targeting of funds to poor and educationally disadvantaged
 communities.

 (b)Educational quality. Several new central Government policies to improve educational quality
 are being put inplace. The most important of these i s the introduction of a new, quality focused,



                                                  - 8 -

child-centered, participatory national teaching curriculum and the promotion of participatory
teaching techniques. The new curriculum allows for wider choice intextbooks and the addition
or local c u l muiumcontent Tine new nationai curricuiumwas piioteci inapproximateiy 500
  ,.1    1                    .
counties (some of which are inthe project) and i s being introduced on a much wider scale in
2003. The ability to train an increasing number of teachers inthis new curriculum is one of the
major challenges inupgrading the quality of education inthe rural parts of western China.

With regardto bilingual education, Chinesepolicy encourages the use of the mother tongue
language when requested by local communities. Consequently, there i s an increasing use of
minority languages as the initial medium of instruction at primary level through grade four and in
some cases through the senior secondary levels. However, the Government recognizes that there
i s still a long way to go inproviding comprehensivebilingual education where needed. In
particular, there are limited numbers of teachers and principals from minority backgrounds, and
good quality minority language texts and other education materials are in short supply.

(c) Girls' Education. Legislation promotes the equal rights of boys and girls to education. The
State Council's Programfor the Development of the Chinese Womenand the Programfor the
Development of Chinese Children, May 2001,takes as main targets ensuring a girls' right to
receive nine year compulsory education and to narrow the gap between men and women in
education. To back this up, a number of other measures have been taken such as publicity drives
to stress the importance of educating girls, the strengtheningof teacher training -particularly for
female teachers and principals - and the promotion of quasi non-governmental initiatives such as
the "Hope Project" and "Spring BudProject" that provide extra financial assistance for girls.
 Some provinces have createdgirl-only schools and classrooms.

 (d) Teaching Points. Inan attempt to improve the quality and efficiency of education inprimary
 school, the Government i s consolidating small teaching points and increasing the number of
 boarding schools. Mountainous and sparsely populated areas are most affected by the closures.
 The policy rationale i s reflected inthe findings of the social assessment, which identifies poor
 quality teachers as a reason for highrural drop-out, and the teaching points as having
 considerably higher rates of daike and unqualified teachers. However, the private cost of
 educating a child in a boarding school i s higher than the cost of educating a child at or near
 home. Moreover the findings of the social assessment suggest that families may be reluctant for
 safety and security reasons from sending younger children, especially girls, to boarding schools.
 Increasingreliance on boarding schools therefore poses a significant risk of actually reducing the
 access to education for poor children, and especially so for girls and minorities.

 (e)Information Technology (IT)and distance education. In 1998 the Government introduced a
 new policy on the use of distance education and IT (the Plan of Actionfor Rejuvenating
 Education in the 21st Century, and the National Plan of Actionfor Distance Education
 Development). This i s supportedby considerable Government investment inIT infrastructure
 and equipment. A national plan, now under development, for using technology for poverty
 reduction through distance education will provide the fundamental infrastructure support in
 western China. However, as suggested above, it will likely be some time before poor rural areas
 inthe west will be able to acquire and sustain IT technologies for the majority of their students.



                                                  - 9 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the magnitude of the challenges it i s unrealistic to expect this project to address all of the
key issues set out above. The project will help to relieve the financing gap inpoor areas,
providing a partial bridge to a time when revenue collection and budget systems function better.
More importantly, it will support investments that are designed to complement and improve the
effectiveness of good government policies and programs. The key sector issues to be addressed in
the project are:

(a)Access to education. The project will support the construction of new schools that are
designed to reduce recurrent expenditure (e.g. by increasing natural light and reducing the cost of
heating). The rehabilitation of local schools and the provision of new equipment and furniture
will make them more attractive to pupils and parents.

It will also support training for more female teachers andprincipals. Injunior secondary
boarding schools, special attention will be given to providing girls with adequate dormitories and
standards of safety and security.

The project's rural education reformpilot will focus, inpart, on increasing the access to school of
poor and vulnerable children. Improvedmonitoring and evaluation will provide a better
understanding of the real situation with regard to out-of-school children and will enable
provincial governments to better design strategies for supporting children inremote
communities, particularly among ethnic minorities.

The project will not directly support student assistance programs to help poor students and their
families to reduce the household burden of education and improve access for poor children. This
i s because there are Government programs that provide student assistance in the project counties
that will runparallel to the project activities and investments. The provinces will, however,
provide information on the student assistance funds given to poor students in the project counties
 over the life of the project. Previous Bank-supportedprojects and the DFID-supported Gansu
 Basic Education Project (GBEP) have provided support for valuable pilots in student assistance
programs. As these pilots and the ones supportedby the governments at the county, provincial
 and national level have been evaluated by the Ministry of Education and the Bank, it i s now
 evident that only those student support activities which are financed from county and provincial
 recurrent budgets appear to be sustainable. This strategy of depending on the availability of
 Government resources, some of which are the result of intergovernmental transfers from the
 central Government, i s a strong indication of the synergies developed duringproject preparation
 between what the Government can and does provide for basic education inrural poor areas and
 what the limited resources of a Bank/DFID loan can provide. A research activity, supported
 through parallel DFIDfunding, i s aimed at establishing an effective mechanism of student
 assistance throughout the country.

 The project will directly attempt to deal with other causes of low enrollment and completion rates
 inpoor communities. The project will seek, throughparallel DFIDgrant funding, to support a
 national research activity on school mapping in rural areas with the aim of creating a more



                                                 - 1 0 -

rational school location and consolidation strategy. The project will not support the construction
of new boarding schools at the primarylevelnor will project funds be used to increase the
capacity of existing boarding schoois to compensate tor the closure of teaching points. The
construction and expansion of junior secondary schools will play a major role in increasingthe
transition of poor children from primary to secondary school.

Closing teaching points may well, as earlier suggested, affect minority groups disproportionately.
Butitis also true that it is necessary to review the distribution of the locations of teachingpoints.
The issues around teaching points and boarding schools merit empirical study. DFIDgrant
fundingwill support such a study inYunnan Province.

(b)Education quality. Improving the quality of education inproject townships will be a key aim
of the project. A fundamental aspect of this effort will be the support to the expansion of the new
national curriculumthrough enhanced teacher training, both in-service and pre-service, the
procurement and distribution of sets of library books keyed to the new curriculum, and teaching
equipment necessary to use the new curriculum in classrooms and teaching laboratories. This
will also involve the provisionof a better teaching environment through improved infrastructure,
and a focus on increasing the capacity of teachers inline with the national curriculum reforms.
On-going governmental attempts to improve the standard of teacher training will be built on by
the project, and around 10percent of the project funds will be dedicated to buildingthe capacity
of teachers, includingdaike teachers.

The introduction of participatory teaching skills, a key element of the new national curriculum
 and an important aspect of the GBEPproject, will be an aim of the project, although this will be
 initially addressed as a pilot scheme. Certain key aspects of bilingual education, such as the
 development of new curricula, are beyond the scope of the project. However, the project will
 seek to enhance the quality of bilingual education in areas where initiatives are already underway
 and to expand and accelerate the distribution of minority language books and textual materials
 already producedunder earlier Bank-supportedprojects. The project will provide training to a
 significant number of bilingual teachers. The project will not be able to support improvements to
 the standard of special needs teaching inmainstreamprimary schools, although it will seek to
 influence Government to direct resources to this important area. The project's rural education
 reform activities will be available to provide finance and expertise in support of small-scale
 school-based initiatives that directly impact on improvingeducational quality inpoor
 communities.

 (c)Improving management skills and capacity. The project will provide training to all levels of
 school management. This will include improvement of data gathering which will be closely
 linked into enhanced project monitoring and a focus on monitoringeducational outcomes and
 improving the quality of education statistics.

 At the school level, akey area of management development will be the support providedto
 school development planning (SDP). This activity will seek to improve the relationship between
  schools and communities and will, ultimately, be aimed at giving communities increased
 decision-making powers over the local school. Eachprovince will introduce school development



                                                  -11 -

planning as a pilot scheme in the province. Insome provinces the plan i s to introduce the pilots
intwo counties, inother provinces there is amore general introductionof the pilots inmore
numerous counties. 'I ne provinces have developed a plan for expanding the successful
experiences of SDP to non-project areas.

(d) Znformation technology. The project will provide limited support to the introduction of
information technology inprimary schools. A small number of pilot schools will be chosen in
each province in which to try out new approaches. If successful, this could be expanded inlater
years, although any expansion would be funded from provincial andor county budgets. Support
will be given to establishing computer networks injunior secondary schools where the benefits
are more clear-cut. The project will not be able to support the development of support networks
for IT.


C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2for adetaileddescription andAnnex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown):
The proposedproject design will be formulated aroundthree key goals which will also form the
basis of the project outputs. The components and sub-components are:

Component 1. ImprovingSchoolFacilities
        School Construction and Upgrading
        School Furniture, Teaching Equipment, and LibraryBooks

 Component 2. Strengthening Management and Administration
        School Development Planning
        Project Monitoring
        Institutional Development




                                               - 1 2 -

Component 3. ImplementingStrategiesto Improve the Quality of Teaching and Learning
        -   1 ner and Staff Training
        Rural Education Reform Pilots




 1.Component 1:ImprovingSchoolFacilities
 1.1SchoolConstruction andUpgrading                           89.95        61.0      62.96      63.0
 1.2SchoolFurnitureand TeachingEquipment                      23.03        15.6       13.62     13.6
 1.3Library Books                                             10.22         6.9       7.15       7.2
 Component 2. StrengtheningMngt. Administration
 2.1 SchoolDevelopmentPlanning                                 2.46         1.7       1.47       1.5
 2.2 InstitutionalDevelopment                                  2.94         2.0       1.66       1.7
 2.3 Project Monitoring                                        2.08         1.4       0.97       1.o
 3. Component 3. Implementing Strategies to Improve the
 Quality of Teachingand Learning
 3.1 Teacher Training                                         14.98         10.2      10.49     10.5
 3.2. RuralEducation ReformPilots                              0.68         0.5       0.68       0.7
                                        Total Project Costs I 146.34       99.3 I    99.00      99.0
                                             Front-endfee I    1.00         0.7 1      1.00      1.o
                                Total Financing:Reauired    I 147.34       100.0 I  100.00     100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will pursue the policy and institutional reforms which directly address the major
issues identifiedin Section B.2. The project will focus on three key reforms:

0   creating, through a grant-funded research activity, a model student assistance mechanism that
    will help improve the targeting, effectiveness and efficiency of the Government's student aid
    resources;
0   through the rural education reform pilot activities, formulating, testing and evaluating
    education related interventions to better understandhow to improve education outcomes in
    rural areas; and,
    establishment of the school based management pilot programs in five provinces so as to test
    ways of improving educational management methods and to pilot methods of encouraging
    greater community participation in school management.




                                                - 1 3 -

3. Benefitsand target population:
The project will improve access to and the quality of basic education for about 2.4 millionpoor
children in 112counties inthe five provinces and autonomous regions of Sichuan, Yunnan,
Guangxi, Ningxia and Gansu. Project impact will be variable depending on location and need
and the largest numbers of children will benefit from the substantive investment inteacher
training which will take place duringthe project. Teacher training will benefit many more
schools than will benefit from the civil works program. Ethnic minority children inremote parts
of western China will comprise a substantial share of the project beneficiaries.

The expected project benefits will be: (a) increased access to a higher quality basic education for
poor rural children; (b) increased literacy and numeracy rates inrural areas; (c) a reduction inthe
number of dangerous classroom buildings; (d) a stronger community voice in the management of
schools; (e) increased access to bilingual and mother tongue instruction for ethnic minority
children; and (f)principals and teachers who are better equipped to deliver a higher quality
education. B y working alongside the Government's own support to student assistance, the
project will seek to ensure improved affordability ineducation of poor boys and girls inproject
provinces and autonomous regions.

          ~~                       Number of
                                     Counties
          Provinces                                               (school aged       Project Counties
                                                                 children)

                                     Number                            Number
                                                       Number                        I     Percent
            Yunnan                      29              184      I1          696,000(      37

            Guangxi                     18                                                 77
                                                        156                  769,0001
            Sichuan                     28                                                  7
                                                        211                  50832001
            Ningxia                     20                                                 44
                                                        121      III         30632001
             Gansu                      17

             Total                      112                                2,400,000




                                                - 1 4 -

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
World Bank/DFID Partnership. DFID and the World Bank worked inpartnership with the
Government to prepare the project. The DFIDfinanced Gansu Basic Education Project provided
particularly important insightsfor the design for this project. Central to the DFIDGansu
experience, i s the emphasis on a strong participatory process, aspects of which have been used in
the development of this project. Likewise, the experience of the Gansu Project in school based
management schemes provides an important foundation for the design and implementation of
pilot activities in the various provinces in this project. DFIDhas played a very active role during
project development and it i s expected to play an equally active role duringproject
implementation.

Thisproject design reflects apioneering effort to combine grant funds with an IBRDloan to
soften lending terms for highpriority social sector projects with the overarching objective of
poverty reduction. Indoing so, it expands the availability of concessional financing for
development to provinces for key social sector investments. Following the path of the
Bank-DFID supported CHZNA:TubercuZosis Control Project, the UK's DFIDhas agreed to
provide the People's Republic of China (PRC) a grant of US$34.4 million to be blended with an
IBRDloanof US$lOO.O million to significantly reduce the effective interest rate to China. The
DFIDgrant will reduce the effective interestrate on the Bank loanto the Government of China
(GOC), based on an agreed set of assumptions. It will be usedto prepay approximately 34.4
percent of IBRDdisbursements inorder to reduce the effective interest rate on the total Bank
loan to approximately 2 percent per annum over the 20 year period. The MOF will pass the
proceeds of the loan to the project provinces at the guaranteed interest rate of 2 percent per
annum.

ProjectImplementation. The project will beginJanuary 15, 2004 and will be implementedover a
five year period. The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of the Ministry of Education
 (MOE) will be the decision-making body of the project and will coordinate the work of the
project and ensure that resources from the Bank/DFID loan are distributedin a timely and
 efficient fashion at the central level. FILO, through the Institutional Development Component,
 will implement national level project activities in which each province has shared involvement.
 These activities will include: (i) national-level management training for provincial trainers,
 education managers and administrators, and project implementation staff; (ii)    centrally-organized
 seminars and workshops in support of various project components, including the organization of
 overseas study tours; (iii) support for the Chinese Experts Panel which will assist MOEFILO in
 the monitoringof the project; and (iv) monitoring, largely through the preparation of monitoring
 reports, which will include the management and utilizationof the computerized data gathering to
 strengthenadministration and implementation. FILO, with the assistance of appropriate
 technical departments of MOE, such as teacher training, and the administrative resources used
 satisfactorily inpast projects, will monitor and supervise the project's implementation goals.
 FILO will make supplementary changes in management of the project when necessary, keeping
 the Bank andDFIDinformed about these changes.

 FILO will assumeresponsibility for: (i)    carrying out national level training activities (including a
 limited number of overseas training programs and study tours) in accordance with an action plan


                                                  - 1 5 -

acceptable to the Bank and DFID; (ii)    coordination and oversight of project implementation
carried out at the national, provincial, prefecture and county levels; (iii)
                                                                           review of goods and
W                                             Gtney are Deing carried out in accordance with the
Loan Agreement; (iv) carrying out periodic supervision, jointly with provincial authorities, of
action plan implementation at the provincial, prefecture and county levels. This will entail
review meetings at the provincial level and site visits to selected project counties; and (v)
preparation of a mid-term report by September 1, 2006, and implementation completion report
(ICR) in a format agreeable to the Bank.

Provincial Level Implementation. The actual implementation of the project will take place at
county-level inthe provinces. However, major management and coordination of county project
activities will be the responsibility of the ProvincialEducation Bureaus (PEB). At the provincial
level, Project Management Offices (PMOs) have been formed, headedby the Deputy Directors of
the respective PEBs and staffed with officials experienced ineducation planning and
management, financial management and accounting and civil works and equipment procurement.
PMOs will: (i)  mobilize institutional, technical and financial resources and carryout the
preparation and implementation of the project; (ii)   coordinate the provisionof provincial level
counterpart funding for the project, (iii) provide a critical coordination and monitoringfunction;
and (iv) furnish annual action plans to the Bank and DFID to ensure proper implementation of
the Education Programs.

County Level Implementation. While management of implementation inproject counties i s the
responsibility of the provinces, actual implementation will be the responsibility of the County
Education Bureaus. All project civil works, for example, will be carried out at the county level,
intownships andruralvillages. Trainingfor county levelproject implementation will be
organizedby the PEB. County-level project implementation offices will replicate those at the
provincial level. County level PMOs have been formed within the County Education Bureau.
These responsibilities will include but not be limited to: (i)  civil works construction; (ii)
ensuring adequate financial resources for counterpart funding; and (iii)   monitoring the targeting
of project resources at the township level.

A national levelChinese ExpertsPanel (CEP) will be establishedto provide support for project
implementation. The panel will provide advice and guidance on pedagogical, social, cultural and
operational aspects of the project.

Monitoring and Supervision. The project includes activities and processes aimed at
 strengthening national, provincial and local monitoring capacity. While MOEEILO has overall
responsibility for monitoring and supervising, its effectiveness will depend on the cooperative
contribution made by every provincial and county/municipal implementing agency. At
provincial, prefecture and county levels, the project will include personnel training linked with
 the establishment or upgrading of appropriate data gathering mechanisms. Efforts will be made
 to assist provincial and county levels in organizing data collection and analysis in order to
 monitor and supervise project implementation as well as local monitoringcapabilities in general.




                                                 - 1 6 -

The project completion date i s December 31, 2008 and closes on June 30, 2009. This includes
five years for implementation, plus six months to complete payments on obligations incurred
                                  ou. m n gproject. impiemenrationreguiar BankDFiD missions
                                       - .        .    .                                       '
                                                                                                  '
will review the progress of the project implementation and development indicators according to
the supervision plan outlined in the National Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The
MOEFILO, with the assistanceof the Chinese Experts Panel, will monitor progresson a
province by province basis usingindicators agreed for each province. Each year, the Bank, DFID
and MOE/FILO will jointly review the provinces' progress in completing their annual action
plans and assess the next year's annual action plan. Annual reports on progress of the project
implementation will be preparedby MOE/FILO, beginning April 15, 2004, basedon information
received from review meetings, operational units, and agencies of the project. A mid-term
review will take place October 15, 2006 and MOEFILO will produce a mid-term report by
September 1, 2006, prior to the mid-term review. A project completion report will be prepared
by MOEFILO and submittedto the Bank within six months of the closing of the project.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The project was originally conceivedby the Government as a ten province programto provide
counties with support to achieve the Governments' nine year compulsory education goals,
especially incivil works and staff training. Targeting was to be based on a combination of low
education enrollment and poverty indicators. Duringproject preparation, increasedemphasis
was placed on a more accurate and more highly weighted poverty focus. While recognizing that
 the county level i s appropriate for the delivery of these services, the targeting of the project
narrowed considerably in order to focus on poor townships rather than counties thereby
 increasing the amount of project resources reaching the poorer in-and out-of-school children.

 One design alternative reviewed and rejected was the use of loan funds for student assistance
 programs. Experience with earlier Bank-supported projects in which counterpart funding was
 usedto set up interest-bearing accounts to finance student assistanceprograms provedto be
 unsatisfactory (not enough revenue earned) and unsustainable (domestic interest rates kept
 dropping). The lessonfrom these earlier experiences was that student assistance programs are
 only sustainable if funds are taken from recurrent education budgets whatever the source of funds
 (Le., provincial, national, or local). Therefore, the provincial governments have indicated the
 amounts and sources of student assistance programs intheir PIPSthat are administered in the
 counties and townships covered by the project. While not counted as counterpart funding, these
 student assistanceprograms will be included in the total provincial and county financing
 available in the project areas and will be reported during project implementationperiod.

 Another design alternative considered and modified substantially was an initial design element
 which focused a higher percentage of project funding onjunior secondary schools. This was in
 line with the Government's policy of accelerating the achievement of Nine Year Compulsory
 Education (NYCE) by the year 2010. However, after a review with the MOE of enrollment
 figures at the primary level and the findings of the interim social assessment, both of which



                                                  - 1 7 -

indicated a large number of unmet primary school targets inthe poorer parts of the project area, it
was decided that the project would focus on primary level with a secondary focus on the junior
                               nmodificationalso fits within the poverty reduction strategies or
both the Bank and DFID which see targeting education funding at the primarylevel in the poorer
rural areas as a first priority.

The project was originally conceived to include investments ininfrastructure, teacher training
and a small number of national level activities. However, this traditional design was modified
due to the fact that remote schools face challenges that are different from those in the more
developed areas. Itwas recognized that community involvementinthe delivery of educational
services should be included to try and address some of these challenges. Therefore, the project
design now includes some pilot activities related to SDP and participatory teacher training. The
latter takes a more student-centered learning approach in the training programs. The project also
includes a rural educationreform pilot activity that will provide local educators with a limited
amount of resources to experiment with ways to address challenges at the local level to provide
practical evidence to policy makers.

Targeting Criteria. The project focuses on five of the poorer provinces and autonomous
regions innorthwestern and southwestern China. All of these have substantial concentrations of
poor people, particularly ethnic minority people. The project design calls for project-supported
 activities to be designed and implemented at the township level and managed at the county level.
Therefore, the selection of both the counties and townships was critical. Criteriafor the selection
process were as follows:

     First Priority was given to financing operations inlisted poor townships innational and
     provincialpoor counties. (National Poor Counties are those currently on the Government of
     China's 8/7 poverty counties list. Provinces'poor counties are those that are currently
     designated as poor counties by the province Government which have not achieved
     universalization ofprimary education. Listedpoor townships are those on provincial lists of
     poor townships.)

     SecondPrioritv was given to financing operations inlistedpoor townships of national and
     provincialpoor counties which have not yet achieved universalization of nine year
     compulsory education.

     ThirdPriority was given to financing operations inlisted poor townships of poor (butnot
     national or provincial designated) counties with low levels of nine year compulsory education
     achievement in order to achieve (a) as a first priority the universalization of primary
     education and (b) as a second priority the universalization of lower secondary education, and
     thirdly (c) incounties which had achieved universalization of NYCEbut have retreated from
     that achievement and now no longer can be counted as having achieved NYCE goals. The
     selection of townships inthis thirdpriority required a reasonable number of poor townships
     per county in order to allow for management efficiency and learning from each other.




                                                 - 1 8 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                     Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                                Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                                Implementation   Development
 3ank-financed                                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 ;upport the attainment of universal       Education Development in                   S               S
 Irimary education and expansion of        Poor Provinces-Cr. 2339
 ower secondary education inpoor and
 ninority areas and build stronger
 nstitutions for education delivery.
                                           Basic Education inPoor and                                 S
                                           Minority Areas-Cr. 2650
                                           Third Basic Education Project                              S
                                           Cr. 2831
                                           FourthBasic Education Project                              S
                                           Cr. 2954
 Ither development agencies
 3FIDBasic Education                       Gansu Basic Education Project
 United Nations Development Program
 : m P )                                   Project for Improving
                                           Compulsory Education in Poor
                                           Areas Focusing on Girls
                                           Education
 DFID/UNDP                                 DistanceEducation and ICT to
                                           Improve Teacher Quality in
                                           Poor Areas of Western China
 UNESCO                                    Bridgingthe DigitalDivide: A
                                           New Stage in Joint Innovative
                                           Project on ICT for Primary and
                                           Secondary Education in China
 European Union                            Sino-EU Gansu Basic
                                           Education Project
 Canadian International Development        Strengthening Capacity in
 Agency                                    Basic Education in Western
                                           China
 4sian Development Bank                    ICT for Basic Education
                                           Project
 UNICEF                                    School Leader Training and
                                           School Development Planning
                                           Project
 Save the ChildrenDFID                     Yunnan and Tibet Basic
                                           Education Projects
 P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), Hliighly Unsatisfaory)



                                                      -19-

3. Lessonslearned and reflectedinthe project design:
The successful implementation of four Bank-supported basic education projects inChina as well
as the recently completed mid-term review of the DFlD-supported GBEP have offered lessons
for preparing the proposedproject:

0   Poverty-focused social service delivery projects should be increasingly targeted at the
    township rather than the county level. With more than half of China's absolute poor living
    outside the 592 nationally designated counties, targeting at the poor township level will more
    effectively include larger percentages of the absolute poor. However, inthat townships lack
    the adequate administrative capacity to manage such poverty-targeted projects, the counties
    should be given chief administrative responsibility for such projects. The project has
    includedmanagement training for county level administrators to improve capacity to deliver
    education services.

    As provinces and counties which havebenefitedfrom IDA and IBRDfinancing have to repay
    the credits or loans, and most likely from provincial and county educationbudgets, caution
    must be taken inthe design of future poverty-focusededucation projects to fully take into
    consideration not only the assumed counterpart obligations but also the future repayment
    responsibilities when calculating project sustainability. The project has been able to obtain
    assurances that the provinces will provide a larger portion of the counterpart and repayment
    obligation.

0   The key issue indeveloping education projects at the provincial, county and township levels
    i s to convince the Chinese preparation teams that focusing on development outcomes i s more
    important than emphasis on investment inputs. The project will include output and outcome
    monitoring indicators as well as benefit from a parallel DFID grant funded impact assessment
     study employing quantitative and qualitative techniques inthe project areas.

0    Scholarships and other financial incentives to increase enrollments and decreasedropout rate
     inpoor areas make adifferencebutmustbe sustainable and are thereforebest supportedfrom
     expanded existing recurrent budgets rather than short-term project financing. The project will
     not support student assistance programs but will be located inareas where parallel student
     assistanceprograms are being implementedby the provincial and national Govemments. The
     GOC will report numbers of children receiving financial support from the parallel programs
     inorder that the project supervisionmissions can monitor the coverage provided.

     Inproject areas where there is a traditional resistanceto girls' education, new school facilities
     and scholarships - especially when the latter are targeted at girls - have been sufficient to
     encourage many girls to attend school. The project will look at ways to improve girls
     education taking into consideration location conditions. I t will emphasize the training of
     women teachers and women head teachers.

     Teacher and staff training components have been chronically weak inBank supportedbasic



                                                 - 20 -

    education projects. Training programs are generally set by formulae providedby the
    province which often follow the national standards. School principals have little contact with
                          allu1                                ng. iYoIr&cnoois
                                                                    > T             navefew
    horizontal links with the counties and villages where teaching i s delivered. The project will
    include introduction of new participatory teacher training materials produced with the
    assistance of DFIDinGansu Province. These materials, which are more focused on student
    centered learning, have also been adapted to the MOEs new national curriculum and will be
     used to train all teachers in the project areas.

0   Language of instruction issues in minority language areas are important but the answers as to
     which system to be used are not always self evident. Talking to parents and grandparents
     through social surveys i s one way to better understand this issue. The project will include
     training of bilingual teachers, minority head teachers and a rural education reformpilot that
     will provide funds to experiment at the local level with development of local content in the
     curriculum. The project will also support a participatory school development planning
     activity in some pilot areas to continue to help to address the special concerns of parents on
     issues such as language of instruction.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There i s a highdegree of commitment from both the Central and Provinciallevels. The Vice
Minister of Education, inmeetings with the Country Director in September 2001, strongly
supportedthe preparation of the project and agreed, subsequently, to the selection of the five
project provinces. The MOEhas surveyed the provinces to ensure that they fully understand the
costs and benefits of the activities envisioned under the project before they applied for assistance
under the project. All five provinces, which have participated inearlier Bank-supportedbasic
education projects, are fully aware of the financial and other implications. Issues around
counterpart and repayment responsibilities are discussed in Section E.

Staff from the five ProvincialEducation and Finance Bureaus met with the project preparation
team and discussed project design and financing issues. These meetings made clear that both the
education and finance bureaus at the provinciallevel support the project.

Eachproject province prepared its own project proposal which required all counties to prepare
county-level programs. This ensured participation and commitment to the project objectives by
 all participating project counties.


 5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
 The major value added from the Bank's support for this project has been: (a) an increasingly
 finely focused poverty-targeting strategy derived from the work that was done by the Bank's
 recent Rural Poverty sector study and DFID's experience of poverty reduction projects inChina
 and globally; (b) a better understandingof the problems of intra-provincial rather than
 inter-provincial disparities ineducation financing which came from the Bank'srecent Provincial
 Expenditure Review (PER); (c) a better understandingof the consequences of the fee-to-tax
 financing reforms and how to better target intergovernmentaltransfers to poor areas which came


                                                   -21 -

from the ASEM-supported research in these areas as well as current DFIDwork; (d) the capacity
to design and implement large scale projects and pilot activities which can be used to
d m " t e     to higher levels in fne Chinese Government innovative methods of education
financing and management and development of community and school based solutions to local
issues; and (e) the ability to carry out sector strategy reviews such as the Strategic Goalsfor
ChineseEducation in the 21st Century and providing advice to the Ministry of Education on
education policy changes and reforms and helped inform many of the policies which are being
followed inthis project.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)

0Costbenefit
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
                      NPV=US$million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)
Thisproject aims to improve access to and completion of affordable and quality basic education
for poor boys and girls inSichuan, Gansu and Yunnan provinces, and Ningxia Huiand Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Regions. It buildson and extends the experience of previous Bank and
DFID-funded basic education projects, and aims to respond to and support the development of
the Government's own evolving education policy environment. A full economic and financial
 analysis of the project was preparedby an independent research team at Beijing University, and
i s contained in Annex 4.

 The main thrust of China's education reforms since 1985 has been the decentralization of
 operational responsibilities and diversification of financing, which have had a significant impact
 on education spending and placed greater demand on local resources and managerial capacity.
 Poorer areas rely heavily on financial transfer payments to fulfill basic administrative duties.
 Most funding i s used for personnel compensation and there i s no reasonable guarantee for
 non-personnel expenditure inmany schools.

 Disparity ineducation funding across areas and regions i s substantial, impacting negatively on
 educational opportunity and children's right to education inpoor areas inparticular. Insupport
 of the project objectives, this project i s tightly focused on the poorer areas where education
 provision i s weak and educational access limited. Project provinces (and counties and townships
 within these provinces) all have below average economic and financial indicators, inaddition to
 low educational attainment. Project expenditure will be targeted at township level, which
 provides opportunities for channeling resources most closely to disadvantaged children inproject
 areas and thus increasing the effectiveness of the loan's resources inmeeting the project
 objectives. However this approach, which targets the poorer as primary project beneficiaries,
 also presents a challenge to the project's financial sustainability given China's highly
 decentralized fiscal system and the current approach being taken to loan repayment and provision
 of counterpart funds. These issues and their relationship to recent sub-national fiscal reform are
 covered inthe financial sectionbelow.

 At the householdlevel, financial barriers to education remain high. While Governmentresources
 as a proportionof funds spent on education have increased, and the Government operates a


                                                     - 22 -

number of substantial special purpose financial transfer programs for education inpoor areas,
fees on aggregate nonetheless comprise the thirdlargest share of resources supporting the


As part of the economic and financial analysis, a household survey was conducted inSichuan and
Guangxi to explore the education financing burden placed on families inproject areas. Most fees
and taxes collected from these households to finance local education provision are not
progressive. Educational expenditure expressed as a proportion of total householdexpenditure
and as a proportion of net income are both high. In2001 over 35 percent of surveyedhouseholds
hadborrowedmoney or received donations from family members to meet educational costs.
A preliminary analysis of the financial burden on families with children attendingboarding
school highlighted the substantial increase in direct costs to households from a boarding school
education. These substantially increased cost burdens are of particular concern, coming on top of
other non-cost issues which might discourage parents from sending their children (especially
girls) to boarding schools. The project has stated clearly that project funds will not be used to
support the expansion of boarding at primary level.

These cost and other barriers to education, particularly inpoor areas also have the potential to
hamper economic development and income poverty reduction. The report's analysis confirms
that education can play a major role in enhancing labor productivity and reducing poverty and
provides an analysis of private rates of return to education inChina. It also highlights the social
rates of return that arise from investments in education.

The economic and financial analysis considered the approach taken to reduce cost barriers faced
by families inprevious basic education projects. The analysis suggests that student assistance i s
 most sustainably financed from grant or Government's own resources. This project i s therefore
 encouraging project provinces to use existing parallel student assistance programs inthe project
 areas to realize synergies between project interventions to increase retention and reduce drop out
 by improvingphysical environments and teaching, and these methods for reducingfinancial
 barriers to education. Project provinces will report the number of students receiving student
 assistance inthe project area during the full implementationperiod. A DFID grant-supported
 research activity focused on developing a more efficient and equitable student assistance system
 will support this approach. This research activity will allow for a continuing dialogue with the
 Government on these issues throughout the implementation of the project.

 2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
 NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)

 Reforms to the fiscal system, inparticular the pilot fee to tax reform (which i s being introduced
 inthree project provinces and autonomous regions: Gansu, SichuanandNingxia) also impact
 closely on education financing at county level, and therefore on project sustainability. The
 reform alters and standardizes the source of educational revenues (with authorities less able to
 raise funds from rural households through administrative measures). So far the shortfall in
 resources at county level that has resulted from this reform has been met through transfers from
 central Government. Nonetheless the analysis highlights the lack of transparency in this resource



                                                 - 23 -

transfer process and the concerns of some project provinces undertaking the reform as to whether
central transfers will continue to be made on the current scale. This i s a key issue for project


This reform andthe generally weak state of county level public finance also have important
implications for the financial sustainability of the project, especially with regard to responsibility
for loan repayment and counterpart funding. The analysis notes that under the background of
taxation and fees' reform, it will be more difficult for some poor counties to complete the plan of
counterpart fundingfor this project if they do not receive transfer payments from higher levels of
Government. It i s hardto deal with the issue within a county because of the current heavy
education financial load on the shoulder of the public finance. The analysis therefore
recommends providing those counties of poorer economic and financial capability (e.g., the
national and provincial poor counties) with certain preferential policies, reducing or exempting
the counterpart fundingrequirements, and asking the provincial Government to plan accordingly.


To date progress on this issue has been achieved in some project areas. A number of project
provinces treat national poor counties and minority regions differently on counterpart funding
and repayment (which the independent economic and financial team commend), but there
remains room for further improvement. Many poor areas are still being required to provide
counterpart funding and meet loan repayments.

Fiscal Impact:

 Not applicable.

 3. Technical:
 China operates the largest basic education system in the world and has substantial experience in
 the development of successful primary andjunior secondary programs inrural as well as urban
 areas, and has over the last twenty years designed a number of large and small pilot projects
 which have experimented with different ways of delivering education programs inpoor and
 minority areas. Over the last ten years the World Bank has worked with the Ministryof
 Education and individual provinces to expand the education inpoor and minority areas and
 supported a number of experiments to make this process more efficient and effective. This being
 said, there remain a number of technical issues which were the focus of the provincial and
 national project preparation teams. While not exhaustive, they are illustrative of the issues dealt
 with duringproject preparation and reflected in the current design.

     How can the project best deal with the impact of the inadequacy of financial resources
     flowing to schools inpoor and minority areas?

0    What are the cost effectiveness lessons from DFID-supported county projects, which will
     lead to sustainability to the models tested after project completion.

0    What i s the most effective way of ensuring enrollment and retention of school-age children




                                                  - 24 -

-  from the poorer families?

   T T    ..   1         1  ..
                               I    t resources into counties and townships where the locai
    financial resources may not be able to provide counterpart funding for the project?

0   How, within the Chinese context of weak educational statistics, can the project deal with the
    technical challenge of proper monitoring and evaluation?

0   Within a Chinese educational context, how would the project best support the introduction of
    school basedmanagement and increasedcommunity participation into the delivery of basic
    education services inpoor and minority areas?

0   How would the project best support increasing the quality of teacher training, both in-service
    and pre-service?

0   What are the most efficient and effective ways of using informationtechnology inthe
    provision of basic education services inpoor and minority areas?

0   What i s the most efficient way to build, repair and maintain classroom buildings inpoor rural
    and often mountainous areas of western China?


4. Institutional:
China's Ministry of Education (MOE) has a long and successful history of coordinating and
overseeing the preparation and implementation of Bank-supportededucation projects, and has,
over the last ten years, worked with a number of provincial educationbureaus to prepare and
implement a program of four basic education projects. The Ministry's Finance Department has
managedthe project design and preparationprocess for over fifteen Bank-supported projects and
has good working relations with the MOE technical departments with whom the preparation
team worked to prepare the project. The MOE/FILO has been implementing Bank-supported
educationprojects for over twenty years and i s well practiced inthe Bank's requirements for
financial management and procurement as well as ongoing supervision of the program of
projects.

Most of the project activities will be implemented with the provinces, especially at the county
 level. There i s an adequate level of experience in all five provinces which have in all cases
 designed and implemented Bank-supportedbasic education projects but substantial work will
 have to be done to strengthen the capacity of county level Government's to be able to adequately
 implement the project at that level. The role of the county inmanaging the project activities at
 the township level was reviewed duringpreparation and appraisal. It i s evident that there i s need
 for capacity building at the county level if the project i s to be implemented well, and therefore
 provincial and national training courses have been providedfor county level officials. This i s
 especially important in the counties which are likely to be pilots for demonstrating the positive
 aspects of school based management and community involvement in school activities.
 4.1 Executing agencies:



                                                  - 25 -

The MOEFILO along with the five provincial education bureaus will be responsible for project
execution. The five project provinces will implement the project because they have primary
..,.

4.2 Project management:
Project management capacity ineach participating county will be strengthenedthrough training
workshops for project management staff in modern techniques of project management
encompassing planning and execution of civil works and procurement of equipment and books;
project accounting and disbursement of Loan and counterpart funds andproject monitoring.
Special emphasis will be given to financial planning and management and the importance of
keeping financial accounts instep with project implementation. The training will take into
consideration provincial experience infour earlier basic education projects as well as other
Bank-supportededucation projects. Each province has established a project steering committee
and working group to train county staff, and developed an appropriate training programincluding
planning of provincial and inter-provincial workshops and the hiringof local specialists services.
4.3 Procurementissues:
There are no major issues related to procurement. A procurement assessmentof the
implementing agencies to be responsible for the execution of this project was carried out that
focused on reviewing the capacity of established Project Management Offices (PMOs) at
provincial and county levels covering their organization structure and functions, past experience,
staff skills, quality and adequacy of supporting and control systems, and suitability of the laws,
rules andregulations applicable to the PMOs. The assessment was done inaccordance with Mr.
Alfonso Sanchez'sMemo-Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement; Setting
of Prior Review Threshold, and Procurement Supervision Plan dated August 11, 1998 and Mr.
Armando Araujo's Memo-Revised Instruction for Carrying out Assessment of Agency's
Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement; Setting of Prior-Review Thresholds and
Procurement Supervision Plan dated July 15, 2002. The main findings, analysis and proposed
action plan can be found inAnnex 6.
4.4 Financial managementissues:
An assessmentof the adequacy of the project financial management system of the Basic
Education inWestern Areas Project was conducted (see Annex 6B for details). The assessment,
based on guidelines issuedby the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has
concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial managementrequirements, as
 stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. Inthe team's opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate
project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
 timely informationon the status of the project inthe reporting format agreed with the project and
 as requiredby the Bank. To facilitate disbursement, five Special Accounts will be established for
 the project and the Provincial Financial Bureaus (PFB) of five provinces will be responsible for
 the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the Special Account activities of
 the project. A sixth Special Account will be established to support national level activities (such
 as national level training, study tours, and national level dissemination activities) administeredby
 the MOE onbehalf of the five provinces.
 5. Environmental:                       Environmental Category: C (Not Required)


                                                  - 26 -

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
'l'hisproject i s expected to have no adverse environmental impact. Civil works will include new
civil works as well as repairs andrenovations of existing buildings. The government has given
the Bank assurances that any civil works will be done on existing school sites and there will be
no acquisition of land or assets for civil works under the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate'?
NA
5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft: NA
NA
5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N A
 5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
 environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP'?
 NA
 6. Social:
 6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
 development outcomes.
 Project beneficiaries are mainly poor rural boys and girls inwestern provinces. Approximately
 19percent of beneficiaries will be from ethnic minorities while the project will also have a focus
 on girls' education. Key social issues which have been addressed duringproject preparation and
 will continue to be addressedthroughout implementation include:

 Increasing access to education of poor boys and girls, inparticular those inthe more remote and
 mountainous communities, while, at the same time, improving the quality of education for these
 same boys and girls.

 Addressing specific gender concerns within education, including the lower rates of enrollment
 and completion of girls in many areas covered by the project. This will be an issue inboth
 primary schools and transition from primary to junior secondary. Poverty focused student
  assistance programs providedfrom Government parallel funding-both national and provincial
 -will have a priority for girls. Training of female head teachers, especially inareas with low
  girls' enrollments, will provide positive role models for girls moving from primary to junior
  secondary schools.

  Ethnic minorities, particularly those inmountainous areas, suffer disproportionately from low
  enrollment and completion rates and lower quality education. The project will have a focus on
  ethnic minority areas and will consider issues such as how to bring schools nearer to ethnic
  minority communities - although this will be a particular challenge given existing plans to bias
  infrastructure development towards townships centers - and how to expandbilingual education


                                                     - 27 -

among ethnic minority groups for which it i s feasible. Addressing the needs of nomadic peoples
will be of particular concern and will involve bringingjunior secondary schools closer to
                        1 -
                        I S .


Duringthe preparationof the project the Government preparedandpresented to the Bank an
Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy (EMES) and Action Matrix which outlines in some detail
the current Government policies pertaining to education of ethnic minorities and actions which
this project will finance in support of these policies. (The Strategy and Action Matrix, which has
been reviewedand agreed by the Bank, and a summary of both can be found in Annex 11and
12.)

The preparation team reviewed the new curriculum and found that i t takes into account students'
differences in gender, cultural background, minority and region and encourages diversity.
Additionally, the new curricular standards ask teachers to compose local teaching materials
basedon the specific situation of local areas, school and class, make full use of minority ethnic
characteristics, customs and culture to develop curriculum resources. One of the learning goals
of the curricula i s to understand the differences and richness of cultures, and to appreciate and
respect the creations of different minority groups.

The project will seek to complement existing Government programs inmaking schools more
accessible to disabled children. For instance, the provinces will hold consultations with the
ProvincialDisabled Federation in order to consider school design work that will allow for
increasedaccess to education for disabled children. DFID-supported technical assistance i s
available at the provinciallevel for provinces which decide to study alternative ways to provide
access to disable children.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Duringthe project design, a social assessment team consulted arange of beneficiaries inmainly
poor villages ineach of the five provinces. These consultations usedquestionnaires and
interviews. The focus of the consultations was on existing students and their families. The
 consultations provided useful insights into the perspectives of poor families and children and
 there have been attempts to take these perspectives into account inproject design. Following the
 social assessment consultations and the provision of their final report, it was decided by the Bank
 team that further consultations, focused on the project's ethnic minority beneficiaries, was
 necessary. This work, undertakenby three teams of specialists led by Bank staff, completed
 fieldwork and consultations infive provinces and among 12 of the project's 24 ethnic minorities.
 (Thisbrought the total number of ethnic minorities inthe project areas consulted to 21 out of 24.
 A desk study of the last remaining three was completed and the appraisal teamjudged that the
 educational challenges faced by these remaining three didnot differ substantially from the other
 21 groups and therefore that the EMES adequately provided for education activities which would
 be appropriate for the last three groups.) The results of these village level consultations were
 discussed with the five provincialproject preparation teams as well as the MOE's preparation
 team. The provinces and the MOEhave reflected the results of these consultations in the final
 set of provincialproject implementation plans (PIPS)and the final version of the EMES (see 6.4
 below). The consultations, which with those conducted in the initial stages of the social
 assessment, were structured to confirm the appropriateness of the strategy and solicit


                                                 - 28 -

recommendations from the ethnic minorities on project design.

                                                    me 1'mpiemenration period, the MOE and.tne  .
provinces are committed to a pilot of school development planning (SDP) in several counties in
each province and autonomous region. This will build on lessons learned in the DFIDGansu
Basic Education project where SDP i s currently being tried out. Provisional results from Gansu
are encouraging and around 2 percent of project investment will be devoted to promoting SDP.
SDP, if successful, will provide poor communities with influence over the school development
priorities intheir communities and, eventually, over how resources are spent. Ifthe pilots are
successful, provinces are likely to roll out SDP throughout project counties usingrecurrent
budgets or other non-project funds.

A rangeof secondary stakeholders have been involvedinproject design. Inparticular, the
project builds on plans developed by county education bureaus. At provincial level, other
Government departments have participated, inparticular Bureaus of Finance and Planning
Commissions. The preparation team has been able to talk with the provincial level education
specialists from provinces outside the project area on such areas as the teaching pointhoarding
school issue.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Duringboth the initial and secondary stages of the social assessment process, consultations took
place at the village and township level. These consultations involvedparents, children, school
 officials, village leaders and education managers at various levels. Additionally, the provincial
 education authorities have consulted with such groups as the All China Women's Federation and
 ethnic minority representatives inthe project areas. Provincial education offices, which manage
 NGO inputsinto the local education systems, have given assurances that such activities as the
 SpringBudFoundation, a charity organization which supports girls' education, will continue its
 support of girls' education through grants to poor girls to pay for school fees. This i s an example
 of the parallel financing available which supports the objectives of this project.
 6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
 development outcomes'?
 Social development goals for this project are increased access to basic education, more balanced
 gender ratios inprimary andjunior secondary schools and the overarching Millennium
 Development Goal (MDG) goal of achieving universal primary completion. Counties have set
 appropriate enrollment targets and identifieda set of activities that will support achievement of
 these targets (see the Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy as an example). A data gathering
 system will be put inplace to measure progress. Progress will be monitored by provincial
 authorities, the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) and Bank/DFID supervision missions.

 The MOEhaspresented the Bank with an EMES which describes the challenges of minority
 education inWestern rural China, the MOE's national responses to the challenges, and the
 actions being undertaken at the provincial and county level to ensure that the education of ethnic
 minorities i s given a strong emphasis inthis project.




                                                 - 29 -

Duringsupervision missions, the BankDFID team will ensure that relevant expertise i s present
to focus on the project's social development outcomes. A minority and gender education
                                                          el and will provide advice to the Ministry
of Education and provinces from a social development perspective.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes`?
DFIDwill contribute grant funds for the development of an impactevaluation system for the
project. A data gathering system will be developed and this will permit the collection of
pertinent and gender disaggregated data from a social development perspective. Inaddition, the
project will support the training of project and education department staff in monitoring.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                 0Yes0     No
     CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                            0Yes0     NO
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                              0Yes0NO
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP4.12)                                      0Yes 0    NO
     Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                        0Yes0     NO
     ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)                 0Yes0     NO
     ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)*                      0Yes0     NO


 7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
 Initial social assessment research results confirm the overall enrollment rate of minorities inbasic
 education i s lower than the average. The initial findings identify physical distance, financial cost,
 cultural differences, language of instruction, discriminatory gender practices, cultural contents of
 textbooks, and other factors as barriers to education for minority nationality children. Within the
 context of the World Bank's OD 4.20, however, Bank staffjudged that further consultations in
 minority nationality communities were necessary regarding their views on educational
 constraints, and their preferences regarding measures to improve educational attainment. In
 order to improve basic education access and to meet the requirements of World Bank OD 4.20, it
 was important to engage various stakeholders inminority nationality communities (especially
 mothers and fathers, school-age boys and girls, teachers and county-level education officials) in
 the project preparationprocess. These supplementary consultations have taken place and have,
 as indicated above, providedinformationnecessary for completion of an Ethnic Minorities
 Education Strategy.

 The specific purpose of these consultations was to: a) consult with a selected set of minority
 nationality stakeholders as well as local minority officials and educational officials, to understand
 their perception on basic education; b) verify key access issues (such as minority enrollment and
 completion rates, language of instruction, distance and cost) for minority children and to support
 preparation of project design; c) study county-level plans for project implementation as they


                                                  - 30 -

relate to education of minority children; d) obtain views from minority nationality stakeholders
regardingproject design (including the draft Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy); and e) make
recommendations as aeemed relevant for improvement of the Ethnic Minorities kducation
Strategy.

The project, taking the preferences of the social assessmentinto consideration, will include:
training of bilingual and multi-grade teachers, procurement of minority language library and
reference books, school based management, participatory techniques inpilot areas to increase
parent and student participation in the decision makingprocess at the school level, and when
appropriate, development of local content for the new national curriculum through the rural
education reform pilot activities.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Several factors are important for project sustainability. First,the project i s targeted inthe poorer
counties infive poor western provinces. Inthe first instance this means that counterpart funding
to match the loan fund for such expenses as civil works andbooks and materials will place a
heavy burden on these county budgets, as will loan repayment after project completion. Inthe
second instance, with the bulk of the recurrent funds which support basic education currently
coming from county budgets, there i s always the concern that the counties by themselves will not
be able to maintain the investments after completion of the project.

Second, the project will support several pilot activities which are designed to demonstrate best
practice in school based management and community involvement with supporting local schools.
While the results of these pilot activities are important in and of themselves, the dissemination
and sustainability of good results in wider areas will depend largely on existing Government
structure and units and financial resources. Experience has shown that the existing structures are
well suited for top-down dissemination of guidelines and informationbut less adept at taki'ng the
results of bottom-up pilots and experiments.

Third, the skills andcapabilities of the county, township and school level education leaders -
men and women - to design, develop and implement new school management and financing
mechanisms i s limited, especially inthe poorer of the proposed project counties. Human capital
development at the sub-provincial level will be critical.


2. Critical Risks (retlecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
                  Risk                            Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 1.Commitment at provincialand lower                  M          Plans will be obtained from each province on
levels may not be enough to provide                              their own student assistance, fee reductions or
adequateresources to get poor children                           eliminations and free textbooks, as a condition
into schools                                                     of their participation in the project. Adequate
                                                                 student assistancewill provide support access
                                                                 to quality education in incomplete or complete



                                                     -31 -

                                                                   primary andjunior secondary schools.

                                              J
increasethe number of boarding schools
inproject areas which may have a
negative impact on enrollments as                                   school mapping will provide more accurate
teaching points may be closed.                                      database for malung closing decisions.

3. Availability of funds at the county                M             Undertalungs to be obtained from each
level to implement the project will be                              province that adequate revenues from the
hampered by the uncertainty of revenue                              provincialbudgets as well as the national funds
delivery duringthe earmarked education                              which are now usedto compensate for the loss
fee-to-comprehensive tax reforms.                                   of education revenues from the reforms will be
                                                                    directed to county level education budgets.
From Componentsto Outputs
Inadequate counterpart funding may                    M             This riski s moderate basedon the experience
hamper successful implementation.                                   of related education projects. This will require
                                                                    regular monitoringby central and provincial
                                                                    Governments as well as by World Bank and
                                                                    DFID'sBeijing offices or theirrepresentatives
                                                                   ,duringsupervision.

Dissemination of pilot activities [SDP,                s            Assurances to be obtained from each province
 participatory teacher training, etc.] will                         to provide and institutional base of support plus
 be weak due to lack of continuous                                  adequate access to recurrent education budgets
 institutional support.                                             to ensure dissemination in the latter years of
                                                                    the project.

  Cultural attitudes in some areas of rural           M             Government policies on universal access to
  China tend to exclude boys and girls                              quality education, especially in girls' education.
  from education will could a negative                              will continue to be stressedthroughout the
1 impact on increasingenrollments and                               project implementation period. Innovation
  decreasing drop-out rates.                                        activities implemented at the local level to help
                                                                    find solutions to localproblems.



  Overall Risk Rating                                  M
 Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri:
             -                                 , M (Modest Risk), N(Neg1igible or Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
 Inan attempt to improve the quality andefficiency of education, the Government is following a
policy of consolidating small teaching points and increasing the number of boarding schools.
Mountainous and sparsely populated areas are most affected by the closures. The policy
rationale i s reflected inthe findings of the interim social assessment, which identifies poor
 quality teachers as a reason for highrural drop-out, and the teaching points as having
 considerably higher rates of daike and unqualified teachers. However where the private cost of
 educating a child in a boarding school i s higher than the cost of educating a child locally, this


                                                     - 32 -

policy may reduce enrollment of poor children, especially girls and ethnic minorities, inprimary
school.

The Bank and DFIDwould like to see village schools and teaching points strengthened rather
than closed because distance from school, especially for girls, i s a critical factor in enrollments at
grades one and two. Duringthe project the MOE and the provinces will have an opportunity to
use this project as a knowledge generation or learning experience regarding the most appropriate
location of schools. This will include: a cost effectiveness study on the issue of teaching points
vs. boarding schools inYunnan Province (to be supportedby a DFIDgrant); the project's impact
assessment will also look at the relative merits of boarding schools versus village schools; and
parallel DFID grant funding will be usedto finance a study to look at more rational and equitable
distribution of schools in the project provinces and strengthen capacity.

Approximately 1,600 total schools will benefit from the civil works component of the project,
805 will be village primary schools and teaching points and 398 will be township-level complete
primary schools. Fundingof the 398 township-level complete primary schools may be seen as
controversial by some because there will be some village schools still inneed. Government
argues that other sources of funding will be available for village schools and that township
schools are stressedby migrants coming to the townships because of changes inrural economic
development pattern. Monitoring annual action plans for new construction will be important
throughout the project implementationperiod to ensure the project investments continue to
support education activities in the poorer parts of townships and villages, inkeeping with the
fundamental design the project.

The Bank and DFIDhave worked on projects successfully inminority areas and nineteen percent
of the project beneficiaries are members of ethnic minority groups. Recognizing that education
projects which have a focus on ethnic minorities can raise sensitivities, the team has undertaken a
careful review of the project design and key safeguard related issues to make sure that the project
takes into consideration the needs of the ethnic minorities in the project areas. The team has
reached an understanding with the Government on an action plan to fulfill the requirements of
OD 4.20. This actionplan includes conducting supplemental consultations with project
beneficiaries, with a specific focus on minority peoples. At the same time, and taking the results
of these consultations into consideration, the Ministry of Education developed an Ethnic
Minorities Education Strategy and worked with the provinces to ensure that this strategy was
reflected inboth the national and provincial Project Implementation Plans. These plans were
reviewed and found acceptable.

However, the preparation team believes, and the Social Assessment concurs, that the vast
majority of people surveyed support elements which are included inthe project design - such as
bilingual instruction, and the training of minority teachers, and community participation. The
balance in the project design i s toward providing the numeracy and literacy skills necessary for
economic and social development while at the same time supporting bilingualism and local
content inthe curriculum.




                                                - 33 -

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
The following events are additional conditions of LoanEffectiveness:

1,The Borrower will provide the Bank with Education Program Implementation Agreements,
acceptable to the Bank, entered into between the Government and the five participating
provinces.

2. The execution of the Tripartite Arrangement by DFID, the Borrower and the Bank.

3. Completion of the first DFID deposit into the Trust Fund.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Implementation

The Borrower shall maintainthroughout the periodof implementation of the Project, with
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank: (i) the
Foreign Investment and Loan Office established within MOE, which shall report to a Vice
Chairman of MOE; said Project Office to be responsible for: coordinating and overseeing Project
implementation at the national, provincial and local levels. B y January 15, 2004 the Borrower
shall establish the Chinese Experts Panel, headedby a chairman, and supportedby a specialist in
minority education and a core of experts in various disciplines.

The Borrower will maintain throughout the project period (a) project implementation offices at
the provinciallevels, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank,
carry out its activities in accordance with an action plan to be providedby October 31of each
year duringproject implementation and acceptable to the Bank and (b) project provinces will
maintain implementation unitsinProject counties with Terms of Reference (TORS),staff and
resources acceptable to the Bank.

Reporting and Monitoring

The Borrower shall maintainpolicies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, inaccordance with project indicators (Annex 1) satisfactory to the Bank, and shall
ensure that each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable each
of them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower will monitor and evaluate project progress, based inter alia on data provided by the
Provincial Education Bureaus by March 1of each year, usingindicators acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish the Bank the results of such review as part of an annual progress report by April 15
of each year.




                                                 - 34 -

The participating provinces shall carry out their Project Implementation Plans in accordance with
annual action plans (to be provided to the Bank by October 31 of each year during project
                                              .   .                                . .?
I1                                     am, wrn-
                                         1  1             I                       c m i works plans,
maintenanceplan, training program, and a program to ensure participation of village education
committees in the implementation of the project;

The Borrower will prepare a mid-termreport by September 1, 2006 according to guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.

Financial

The Borrower shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, and furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year the audit report.

Each Province shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited and furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year.

Proiect DesiEn

Project Provinces shall implement the Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

Project Provinces shall provide special training for daike (temporary) teachers to upgrade the
skills of such teachers in areas including, multi-grade teaching and bilingual education.

Project Provinces shall select counties in which the Project Province proposes to carry out rural
education reform pilot activities according to criteria, acceptable to the Bank, includingcriteria
that takes into account the following inthe proposed county: (i)      the size of the ethnic minority
population, (ii)  status of economic development; and (iii)   education performance (including the
enrolment and drop-out rates of girls and ethnic minority persons). Within six months of the
signingof its respective Implementation Agreement, furnishto the Bank for approval a draft
time-bound action plan for the carrying out of rural educationreform pilot activities (including
the dissemination of the results of said activities) and thereafter, carry out said action plan taking
into account the Bank's comments.

Project Provinces shall prepare and furnish annual action plans to the Bank for review and
approval.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0  1.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start of project implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.




                                                 - 35 -

  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
     project implementation.
  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
u4.The
- quality.
         following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



1.Compliance with Bank Policies

fl2.The
@ 1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
         following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
    with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                                          Yukon Huang
Team Leader                        Sector ManagedDirector                 Country ManagdDirector




                                                - 36 -

                                 Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                           CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project


iector-relatedCAS Goal:       iector Indicators:                                          'romGoal to Bank Mission)
)evelopment of Human                                                                      'he mission of DFID and the
!esources by addressing needs                                                             ,ank i s poverty reduction.
fpoorer andlagging regions
iith emphasis onbasic                                                                     nproving access to education
ducation.                                                                                 ndthe quality of education
                                                                                          )r allwill leadto increased
To support and accelerate the                                                             roductivity, and therefore
chievement o f the Chinese                                                                icreasedincome, and
iovernment's Nine-Year                                                                    ltimately to a reduction in
:ompulsory Education                                                                      overty.
NYCE) goals.)
                                                                                          mproving the quality of
                                                                                          ducation will also lead to
                                                                                          nprovements inhealth,
                                                                                          xtility, and income
                                                                                          istribution, which in turn
                                                                                          ontribute to poverty
                                                                                          eduction.



'roject Development           Iutcome I Impact               'roject reports:             from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                    ndicators:
mproved access to and          0 Percent o f 15 year-old       0 Annual reports from      0  Government of China
:ompletion of affordable, and    age-group who complete          provinces and MOE/FILO      remains committed to
pality, basic education for      primary education (boys,                                    promoting education as a
)oor boys and girls in           girls, minorities) i s       riangulated with               key driver of development
jichuan, Gansu and Yunnan        increased                                                   and to the strategy of
'rovinces and Ningxia Hui                                      0 Impact assessment system    developing the western
md Guangxi Zhuang                Drop out rate is decreased      MOE/Bank/DFID               region.
lutonomous Regions                (boys and girls)                supervision missions
                                                                                           0  The combined effects of
                               0  Gender gap inprimary                                        the current provincial
                                 education enrollment i s                                     level tax reformand
                                  decreased                                                   planned increases inthe
                                                                                              National Compulsory
                               0  Gender gap injunior                                         EducationProgram
                                  secondary education                                         funding result in an
                                  enrollment is decreased                                     increase (or at least no
                                                                                              deterioration) infunding
                               0  Gender gap inprimary                                        for education inthe
                                  education completion i s                                    project provinces.
                                  decreased
                                                                                           0  Government o f China
                               0  Gender gap injunior                                         remains committed to
                                  secondary education                                         increasing parallel student
                                  completion i s decreased                                    assistancefunds in an
                                                                                              effort to eliminate cost
                               0 Percent o f 17 year-old                                      barriers to education


                                                        - 37 -

                                  age-group who complete
                                  junior secondary
                                  education (boys, girls,
                                  minorities) is increased

                               0  Teachers qualification
                                  rate i s increased

                                  Learning achievement as
                                   measured by pass rates in
                                   math and Chinese
                                   language (boys, girls, and
                                   minorities) in grade 6 is
                                   improved
                              Jote: Different targets will be
                              et by each province
                              gote: Completion rates for
                              ninority children will be
                              :ollected infour pilot counties
                              neachprovince.




htput from each               lutput Indicators:                'roject reports:           From Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
Zomponent 1:Improving         1.1.lDecrease inthe rate of           Baseline reports from  0  Government o f China
ichool Facilities             iilapidatedbuildings by               provinces and MOEEILO     remains committed to
                              irimary schools                    0  Mid-termreview            increasing student
..lbetterschool
   A                                                                Impact assessment         assistancefunds inan
:nvironment for all children. 1.1.2 Decrease in the rate o f        Implementation            effort to eliminate cost
                              liapidatedbuildings byjunior          completion report         barriers to education
                               ower secondary schools               MOE/Bank/DFID
                                                                    supervision missions      GOC remains committed
                              1.1.3. Increase in the number                                   to their policy of
                              ifschools withproject                                           maintaininga balanced
                              upported civil works which                                      approach to teaching
                              Fullymeet provincial                                            points and boarding
                              :onstruction standards in all                                   schools in an effort to
                              xeas                                                            increase access to
                                                                                              education
                              1.1.4 Reductioninthe number
                              if oversized (over-crowded)                                  0  A better school
                              :lasses, as measured by m2                                      environment leads to
                              Jer student inprimary schools                                   improved attendance

                              1.1.5 Reductionin the number
                              ifoversized (over-crowded)
                              :lasses, as measured by m2per
                              student injunior secondary
                              jchools

                              1.1.6 Implementationof a set
                               3 fstandards for health, safety


                                                           - 38 -

                                1childprotection, support
                                1supervision inboarding
                                loolR


2 Increasedavailability of       !.1Increaseinschools
iching and learning              iieving the school desk and                                0Increases innumbers of
aterials in schools              air completionrate in                                       materials and books leads
                                 mary schools;                                               to improvements in
                                                                                             quality of education
                                 !.2 Increase in schools
                                 hieving the school desk and
                                 air completion rate injunior
                                 :ondaq schools;

                                 L.3 Increase in number of
                                 1001s achieving the
                                 indardised instrument and
                                 uipmentrate (primary and
                                 iior secondary)

                                 2.4 Increase inthe number
                                  library books per student
                                 rimary andjunior
                                 zondary)
                                 bte: Individual targets have
                                 enset by eachprovince
                                 lese indicators are required
                                 der the M O E NYCE
                                 ,gram

 omponent 2:Strengthening                                            Annual reports from    0 Training provided leads tc
[anagement and                                                       provinces                improved practice
 dministration                                                       Annual reports from
                                                                     MOEPILO                0 An effective and
,l effectiveplanning,
   More                          1.1Increasein                    0  Mid-termreview           appropriately resourced
ianagement and monitoring        imputer-aideddata reporting      0  Impact assessment        dissemination strategy for
                                  stems inuse inproject              Implementation           SDP i s developed
                                 iunties and townships               completion report
                                                                  0  MOE/Bank/DFID
                                  1.2 The number of (i)              supervision missions
                                 lministrators trained in
                                  anagement and (ii)  the
                                 imber o f male and female
                                 ,incipals and deputy
                                 ,incipals trained in
                                  anagement, i s increased

 .2 School management whicl       2.1 Number of trainees in
 imore effective and              3P is increased
 :sponsible to the needs o f the
 ommunity                         2.2 Increased involvement c    2.2.2Monitored on a sample
                                  m"mnities and parents in       )asis during supervision
                                  rgeting student assistance     nissions



                                                            - 39 -

                              L2.3 Number of schools
                              :onducting SDP pilot program
                               s increased

                              2.2.4 Number of non-pilot
                              schools to which SDP
                              xogramme i s disseminated is
                              .ncreased

:omponent 3: Implementing                                     0  Annual reports from    0Govemment continues to
itrategiesto Improve the                                         provinces               implement their
)uality of Teaching and                                       0  Annual reports from     curriculum reform in
.earning                                                         MOEFILO                 terms o f more
                                                                 Mid-termreview          child-centred learning
.1Better teaching and         3.1.1Rate of qualified          0  Impact assessment
:aming inproject supported    :eachers increased. (Note:      0  Implementation          Improved quality leads to
chools                        reachers need the                  completion report       increasedenrolment and
                              qualification for NYCE)         0  MOE/Bank/DFID           completion rates
                                                                 supervision missions
                              3.1.2 Total number of teachers  0  National and provinc   0Pilot activities produce
                              trained, o f which,                researchreports (par    relevant and innovative
                              numbers of teachers trained        funded)                 measures in support of
                              From :                                                     access to, affordability,
                              i)teachingpoints                                           and quality of education
                              ii)incompletevillage primary
                              schools
                              iii)villageprimaryschools


                              3.1.3 Number of teachers
                              trained inparticipatory
                              learning techniques is
                              increased

                              3.1.4 Number of schools using
                              participatory methods

                               3.1.5 Improvements in teacher
                               behaviour observed            5.1.5 Assessed on a Sam1
                                                             )asisduring supervision
                                                             nissions and impact
                                                             issessment studies
                               3.1.6 Increases in student
                               achievement rates recorded    1.1.6Impact assessment
                                                             itudies

                               3.2.1 Findings from pilot
i.2 Ideas generated and tested projects monitored, evaluated  0  County, provincial a
iyRural EducationReform       disseminated and successful        ERATreports
'ilots                        experience replicated           0  Impact assessments'

         bomponentsI          nputs: (budgetfor each
Sub-components:                omponent)                                        lutputs)
Component 1: Improving         JS$ 112.0 million base cost  'rogress Reports       Timely and adequate
school facilities                                                                  counterpart funds
Component 2. Strengthening     JS$ 6.7 million base cost    'rogress Reports       Timely and adequate
management and                                                                     counterpart funds
administration
Component 3. Implementing      JS$ 13.90 million base cost  'rogress Reports     0 Timely and adequate
strategies to improve quality                                                      counterpart funds
of teaching and learning.




                                                        -41 -

                            Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                      CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

The project has three main components. Component 1: Improving School Facilities; Component
2: Strengthening Management and Administration; and Component 3: Implementing Strategies
to Improve the Quality of Teaching andLearning. All three components will be implemented in
five provinces and autonomous regions and 112 counties with a population of approximately 38
million. A small number of activities will be conducted at the national level on behalf of the five
provinces. The project provinces and autonomous regions are Yunnan, Sichuan, Guangxi, Gansu
and Ningxia. Detailed descriptions of each component are inthe Project Implementation Plans
(PIPs) providedfor both Provincialand National Level activities. The NationalPIPand
Provincial PIPs are inproject files. The project aims to respondto and support the development
of the Government's own evolving education policy. Research, active learning and
dissemination will play important roles in achieving the project outcomes and objectives.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$111.70 million
                    -
Component 1. Improving School Facilities. This component comprises two subcomponents
including school construction and upgrading, purchasingteaching equipment, school furniture
and books. Schools that serve poor children do not meet the needs of this population because
these schools and their teaching points are often distant from where the children live,
under-equipped or are indangerous and deterioratedcondition. The objective of this component
i s to improve access to quality primary andjunior secondary education, by providing schools
which are close to where children live and eliminating dangerous and dilapidated school
buildings. Additionally this component will provide a sufficiency of school furniture and
teaching equipment and supplementary reading materials for primary andjunior secondary
schools.

School Construction and Upgrading (US$81.92 million-Base Costs). This subcomponent
will assist county and township governments to finance the construction and repair of
approximately 1,600 schools. The civil works activities directly contribute to the national
government's goal of increasing the number of classrooms inrural areas and eliminating
dangerous and dilapidated school buildings. This should contribute to increasing access to
school for poor girls and boys. School construction and upgrading will be managed at the county
level by the education bureaus under the supervision of the provincial level implementation units.
Quality control will be providedby the county government quality control offices. Construction
and upgradingplans will be presented, reviewed and approved annually byjoint Bank/DFID
 supervision missions.

The estimatedcoverage of the school construction and upgradinghepair programis:

                PrimarySchools                               1,203
                Village primary schools and teaching points    805
                Township-level complete primary schools        398
                Junior Secondary schools                       366



                                                - 42 -

The project will favor the retention and strengthening of village schools, teaching points and
incompiere primary schoois invillages andproject funds wiii notbe used to construct new
primary level boarding schools nor will they be used to expand existing boarding schools to
compensate for the closure of village primary schools and teaching points. However, the project
will support boarding school construction at thejunior secondary school level. Construction of
new civil works that replace existing teaching points or incomplete primary schools will adhere
to provincial education construction guidelines which stipulate that primary school aged children
should not be further than 2.5 kilometers or 20 minutes walking distance from the child's home.
(Yunnan Province has a provincial limit of 3.0 km distance from home). Civil works will be
done on existing school sites and there will be no acquisition of land or assets for civil works
under the project.

Community consultations played an important role indetermining the design of this component
with regard to the location of schools in the poor villages. Construction plans have also taken
into account such things as township boarding junior secondary schools innomadic areas. Such
initiatives should play a role inincreasing enrollments and decreasing dropouts in areas which
face special challenges.

Progress of the component will be measured by: (i)    rates of dilapidated school buildings
eliminated; (ii) number of schools with project supported civil works which fully meet provincial
construction standards in all aspects; (iii)
                                           school desk and chair completion rates; (iv) square
meters of classroom per student. Inaddition annual supervision missions will consider how
national and provincial standards for health, safety and child protection support and supervision
inboarding schools arebeing metinproject locations.

School Furniture, Teaching Equipment, and Library Books (US$29.78 million-Base
Costs). This subcomponent will support acquisition of school furniture, teaching equipment and
library books for primary and lower secondary schools. Schools will be furnished and equipped
according to standards set out inthe MOE's national Nine Year Compulsory Education policy.
Equipment standards vary according to school location and school size, and the school's
responsibility inrelation to other schools. The MOE and provinces conduct periodic surveys to
assess current levels and new procurement needs and has done this for project county schools
participating in this project. Standards for school furniture are set at the provincial level based
on recommendations from the national level. Furniture will normally be contracted and
constructed at the township or county level.

Library books will be selected by each school from a standard list suggested by provinces and the
MOE. Individualschool lists will be consolidated at the county level sent to the provinces for
further consolidation and purchased by the provinces basedon the individual schools requests.
Inaddition, previous Bank-supportedbasic education projects have supportedthe translation of
minority languagebooks and supplementary reading materials for many of the ethnic groups that
live in the area covered by this project. This project will promote the wider distribution of these
materials that are appropriate for minority children. The Rural Education ReformPilot Activities
(see below), once the individual county pilot activities are set, may support the development of


                                                - 43 -

local content materials for the new curriculum.

This component wiii also support the introduction of informationtechnology (Le., computers,
printers and limitedintemet access) on a pilot basis in a limited number of township center
primary schools. This effort is in support of the government's policy of providing
interconnectivity to township center primary schools so that they may access national information
databases and teacher training modules and provide limited access to both students and teachers
to information technology. The government i s concerned about the increasing digital divide
between coastal and western China and therefore supports a national program of providing
intemet and computational access to poorer western schools. The project also provides for
training for the end-users inthe schools through an IT element of the teacher training component.

Project Component 2 US$6.67 million
                    -
Component 2. Strengthening Management and Administration. The objective of this
component i s strengthen the capacity of local departments of education to implement the project
and administer education policies. Additionally, this component will strengthen community
participation in improving access to basic education as well as to improve capacity to monitor
and evaluate project outcomes. Finally, this component will provide support for overall project
coordination and technical advice. This component comprises three sub-components: school
development planning (SDP), institutional development, and monitoring.

School Development Planning (US$2.20 million-Base Costs). The social assessmentreport
concludes that as the responsibility for financing basic education moves from the township to the
county, community involvement in the schooling process decreases. This project subcomponent
attempts to reverse this decline by piloting new methods of school management in a sample of
counties ineach of the project provinces. The provincial and county level educationbureaus will
work jointly to implement this pilot activity. Additional technical assistance will be provided
through a parallel DFIDgrant facility and usingexperience and materials from the Gansu Basic
Education Project (GBEP).

SDP i s local level planning to encourage the school to work closely with its community to solve
its problems and to improve access for poor children and raise achievement levels. SDP
emphasizes school-community links which are facilitated by participatory approaches; the
involvement of members of the community with traditionally less voice; encouraging schools to
look at planning as a tool to provide locally based solutions; and developing better teaching and
learning conditions in schools.

Each province will pilot SDP based on their provincial needs and has providedtheir plans inthe
provincial PIPS.These plans include proposals for dissemination of successful pilot results. One
of the SDP pilots ineach province will be ina minority county. All pilot SDP schools will go
through at least four annual cycles of SDP and all head teachers will need to be trained inSDP
twice and county and prefecture trainers may each need to receive three or four sessions of
training.

The provinces will use SDP Guidelines which have been producedby Gansu Basic Education


                                                - 44 -

Project (GBEP) and a training workshop manual for school head teachers and school district
directors. Head teachers and school district directors will use the skills and methods creatively
under their own specific circumstances. '1he workshops will assist head teachers to deveiop
sufficient knowledge, skills and attitudes to conduct the school development planning process
with their own school community.

Project Monitoring (US$1.86 million-Base Costs). This subcomponent will support project
monitoring usinga set of project indicators (Annex l),   a data gathering format agreed during
appraisal and computerization of township and county level data reporting. The monitoringwill
be managed at the county and provincial levels by project implementations offices, under the
supervision of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of the MOE. Training in
monitoring for provincial and county staff will be supportedby the project.

The computerization of data reporting at the county and township levels will be supportedby the
purchase of computers, printers and software compatible with the national EMIS system. The
project will provide technical assistance on the collection and utilization of educational data.
Associated training of staff inthe effective utilizationof the system will also take place.

As aparallel DFlDgrant supported activity, aproject impact evaluation system (see below)
which will include support for a team of technical experts to develop impact indicators, conduct a
pilot baseline study and develop and support the roll-out of an impact monitoring and assessment
system across all five project provinces andregions.

Institutional Development (US$2.61 million-Base Costs). This subcomponent will strengthen
the management skills at the provincial and county levels to: (i) implement the project, and (ii)
administer education policies, including minority education strategies. The subcomponent will
be managed, for the most part, at the provincial level by provincial implementation units with
some activities carried out at the national level by FILO on behalf of the provinces.

The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO), with project funding, will coordinate national
level training activities on behalf of provinces to provide project specific training, education
administrator training, seminars, study tours and overseas training. The domestic training will
provide training for provincial project implementation staff in civil works supervision, Bank
procurement procedures, project management, and project financial management. Education
administrator training will include school development planning and participatory teacher
training methodology. The domestic training will also provide seminars for provincial level
policy makers in school development planning, participatory teaching methodology, project
implementation and basic education development. Study tours will focus on Provincial
Education Department director generals and other provincial education officials ineducational
development strategy and planning, teaching training, teaching administration, project
management, school development planning and educational finance management. Overseas
training will include six months of overseas training for MOEand provincial authorities.

Provincial implementation units will provide training for counties on Bank procurement
procedures for goods and services, financial management and project management. In addition,



                                                 - 45 -

provinces will also provide training to county level education administrators and head teachers
from primary andjunior secondary schools.

Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) (US$ 0.1 million-Base Costs). This subcomponent will support
a multi-disciplinary Chinese Experts Panel (CEP), with expertise relatedto the major activities of
the project, which will provide advice and guidance on the pedagogical, social, cultural,
economic and operational aspects of the project and assist both the MOE and the joint
BankDFID supervision of the project. It will include a social scientist with expertise in the
education sector to assist the provinces inimplementing their minority education strategies and
address gender issues. The specific role of the CEP and ERAT inreviewingthe DFID supported
national andprovincial research proposals will be clarifiedby negotiations. Finally, the CEP will
work with MOE in assessingthe impact of the project duringthe mid-termreview and at the
time of the Implementation Completion Review (ICR). The CEP will consist of a small core of
experts and will be supplemented by specialized consultants as needed. It will coordinate with
ProvincialExpert Panels providingparticular support in the areas of SDP and participatory
teacher training methodology. It will also coordinate closely with the Education Reform
Advisory Team.

Project Component 3 US$ 13.84 million
                     -
Component 3. ImplementingStrategiesto Improve the Quality of Teaching and Learning,
This component seeks to strengthen the delivery of teacher training services to improve the poor
quality and limited coverage of qualified teachers, including bilingual and multi-grade teachers in
primary andjunior secondary schools, and upgrading the quality of temporary (daike) teachers.
Inaddition, the component will enable the five project provinces to carry out small scalepilots of
a set of research-based reform measures, based on problems identifiedindifferent localities.
These will cover comprehensivereform pilot activities intwo project counties ineach
Province/Autonomous Region and provinciallevel policy research on issues related to project
activities.

Teacher and Staff Training (US$13.24 million-Base Costs). The social assessment stated that
parents and principals see the low quality of teachers as a major reason for low achievement and
highdrop out inpoor rural schools. Many of these are daike or temporary teachers. Inaddition,
lack of bilingual teachers and minority head teachers are an issue inpoor and minority areas.
The project will therefore support training of bilingual teachers inareas where minority
languages are spoken with a special emphasis on training minority and female head teachers.
Daike teachers will be provided with special training to upgrade skills, especially in the areas of
multi-grade teaching and bilingual education.

A new national government policy promotes the introduction, across China, of participatory
teacher training methods. Participatory teacher training focuses on pedagogy rather than content
 and tries to give teachers practical skills they can use intheir work. This subcomponent will
finance approximately 90,700 person times of teachers and head teachers inparticipatory
methods and will be managed by provincial education authorities coordinated by the Provincial
Project Implementation Offices. Female and minority teachers will be prioritizedintraining
plans. As with other project investments project provinces are encouraged to target funding to


                                                  - 46 -

the poorer communities within project counties and townships by focusing on training teachers
from the more remote andpoor areas of the project. Through improved teacher training and
I 1
schools (even the poorest) thereby attracting children, reducing drop-out and improving
completion rates.

Training will be provided to teachers inthe following areas: core training to upgrade teachers
basic academic qualifications, bilingual teaching, active pedagogy, multi-grade teaching,
computer technology and use in the classroom, use of standard equipment sets, conducting
classroom experiments, andmonitoring student performance. Librarians will also receive
training. There may be scope for adapting training materials (14 courses) that have already been
designed for the DFID-supported Gansu Basic Education Project. The MOE and the provinces
plan to carry out these activities with a stated goal of increasing the teacher qualification level to
94.3 and 87.7 percent respectively for primary andjunior secondary levels. Principals and deputy
principals will receive special training at the county and provincial levels inthe new
child-centerednational curriculum and the special characteristics of school development
planning and participatory teacher training, with priority given to females inthese positions.

Progress of this subcomponent will be measuredby (i)       the teachers trained (disaggregated by
different types such as female teachers, daike teachers, and minority teachers); (ii)  the numbers
teachers trained in usingparticipatory teaching methods; and (iii)   the qualification rate of
teachers. Learning improvements will be assessed through impact assessmenthesearch activities
 supported by parallel DFIDfinancing and designed to identify key areas of learning (e.g.,
literacy, numeracy).

 RuralEducationReformPilots (US$0.6 million-BaseCosts). This subcomponent will
 support the research in support of current education policy reforms in areas of direct strategic
 interest to the Ministry of Education and project Provinces and Autonomous Regions.

 Provinces have conducted research at the local level to identify problems which prevent efficient,
 effective and equitable provision of education inpoor areas, but lacked the resources to pilot the
 findings. This project-financed sub-component will enable the five project provinces to carry out
 small-scale pilots of a set of research-based reform measures, based on problems identifiedin
 different localities. Managed by the MOE's Department of Finance and advised by a DFID-grant
  supportedEducation Research Advisory Team (ERAT) , these pilots will provide an evidence
 base for policy decision-making at the provincial and national levels which support provision of
 education inpoor areas. Pilot activities will be decided in the first six months of implementation
  after project launch. Pilot activities may included such areas as (i)efforts to increase girls'
  enrollment and completion of primary andjunior secondary school; (ii)      development and use of
  teaching materials inminority languages; (iii)  an increase in locally relevant content for aspects
  of the curriculum; and (iv) access for previously excluded children (e.g., the disabled, remote
  dwellers). The MOE will agree pilot counties with provincialBureaus of Education. One of the
  two counties in each province will be a minority county. Criteria for selection of counties where
 pilots will be carried out will be fairly simple and decided after project launch. Some examples
  of the criteria to be considered are: (i)
                                          size of minority population, (ii)economic development,



                                                  - 47 -

and (iii)education performance (including enrolment and dropout of girls/minorities).

                                                 as well as lessons mar are iearnea rrom tne
                                                        11  1


experience of education policy reforms, research results, and, from other projects, will be an
important aspect of these activities as well as other project activities. Dissemination will take
place through national workshops, study tours to the sites of successful pilots, andpossible
publications describing results. They will play arole in dissemination as indicated in the TOR.
A dissemination strategy for the project will be developed duringthe first six months of project
implementation.

DFIDParallelGrantActivities. (US$4,432,000 equivalent) The UKDepartmentfor
International Development will provide grant funding for a number of parallel activities through
a grant facility. These funds will augment and supplement certain specific project-supported
activities and will be managedby the Ministry of Education, ProvincialEducation Bureaus and
through an international consultancy depending on the activity. DFID and the M O E will enter
into a Memorandumof Understanding (MOU) and DFID will create a special account which the
MOE can draw on.

These funds will support research and provide additional technical assistance (TA) to provinces.
The areas of support are: (i) national level research, (ii)provincial level research; (iii)
                                                                                          project
impact assessment; (iv) technical assistance (TA) for SDP and participatory teacher training; (v)
partial support for the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) activities; and (vi) support to the Education
ReformAdvisory Team (ERAT). The purpose of these grant funds i s to provide support for the
strengtheningof rural education practices and contribute to the possible policy reform in the
delivery of education services to the poor parts of western China.

National Research (US$300,000 equivalent) will be conductedinitially on two subjects: (i)
student financial assistance and (ii) mapping. These subjects areas are of particular
                                     school
importance to access to education inwestern China because the efficient targeting and allocation
of limited student assistance resources and appropriate school location strategies which ensure
that poor children are close to school are critical to ensure that poor children will enroll in and
complete basic education. The research activities will be managedby the Finance Departmentof
the MOE which has policy responsibility for these two areas, in consultation with the World
Bank and DFID. Further research activities may be identifiedand supported during project
implementation. The specific role of the CEP and ERAT inreviewing national andprovincial
research proposals will be clarifiedby project effectiveness.

ProvinciaZ level research activities (US$200,000 equivalent) will support researchby provincial
educational research institutes on topics of relevance to the provinces and the project's
development objective and outcomes. The results of the research will informprovincial
education policy decision and, when relevant, incorporated into the comprehensive reform county
pilot area. Research topics will be reviewed by the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) and
implemented by Provincialresearch institutes.

Project Zmpact Assessment (US$l,OOO,OOO equivalent) will include support for a team of

technical experts to develop impact indicators, conduct a pilot baseline study and develop and
support the roll-out of an impact monitoring and assessment system across all five project


TechnicalAssistance (US$832,000equivalent) for school development planning and
participatory teacher training will support national and provincial level experts inthe provisionof
training and advice for SDP and participatory teacher methodology. The resources will be
managedby the national FILO office.

Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) (US$100,000 equivalent) activities will receive partial support
from a DFIDparallel funding. The actual activities to be supported will be determined by project
effectiveness but are likely to be limitedto consulting fees and other honoraria for domestic
consultants appointedby the CEP.

The EducationAdvisory Reform Team (ERAT) (US$200,000 equivalent) will provide support to
the MOE and the Provinces inthe conduct of the Rural Education Reform Pilots. Terms of
reference will be agreed by project effectiveness.

Inaddition, DFIDwill provide up to US$ 1,800,000 equivalent for national andinternational
consultancy support. This will support the project impact assessment, national and provincial
research and other activities as appropriate.




                                                - 49 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                            CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project



 1. Improving School Facilities                                                                        0.00                 0.00                    0.00
 1.1School ConstructionandUpgrading                                                                 73.72                   8.20                  81.92
 1.2 InstructionalEquipmentFumiture                                                                  15.37                  5.21                  20.58
 1.3 Library Books                                                                                     9.20                 0.00                    9.20
 2. StrengtheningManagement andAdministration                                                          0.00                 0.00                    0.00
 2.1 SchoolDevelopment Planning                                                                        2.20                 0.00                    2.20
 2.2 Institutional Development                                                                         2.61                 0.00                    2.61
 2.3 ProjectMonitoring                                                                                  1.07                0.79                    1.86
 3. ImplementingStrategiesto ImproveQuality of Teaching and                                            0.00                 0.00                    0.00
 Leaming
 3.1 Teacher Training                                                                                13.24                  0.00                   13.24
 3.2 RuralEducationReformPilots                                                                        0.60                 0.00                    0.60
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                                118.01                 14.20                 132.21
  PhysicalContingencies                                                                                7.26                 0.87                    8.13
  Price Contingencies                                                                                  5.12                 0.88                    6.00
                                           Total Project Costs'                                     130.39                 15.95                 146.34
                                                                   Front-endfee                                              1.oo                   1.oo
                                  Total FinancingRequired                                           130.39                 16.95                 147.34




 Works                                                                                                   80.80                   9.15                  89.95
 Goods                                                                                                    7.04                 28.18                   35.22
 Consultant Services                                                                                      0.14                   0.00                     0.14
 Training                                                                                               21.03                    0.00                  21.03
                                                            Total Project Cost;                        109.01                  37.33                 146.34
                                                                       Front-endfee                                               1.oo                    1.oo
I                                                  Total Financing Rewired I                           109.01      I           38.33 I               147.34 I

    1
     Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (IJSSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s 147.34 (tJS5m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 67.87
    8 of totalproject cost netoftaxes.




                                                                       - 50 -

                       Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
                     CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

Overview of Expenditures in the Education Sector. InChina, county and district governments
are responsible for the implementation and financing of compulsory education. Inpoor rural
areas, the revenue available to county and township governments i s limited. Although education
often comprises a very large proportion of county budgets inpoor areas, fiscal allocations are
nonetheless only one source of finance for the sector and are often insufficient to support
(particularly non-personnel) expenditures. Statistical data for 1995-2000 show that among the
sources of compulsory education revenue the fiscal budgetary allocation grew steadily, increasing
from 52 percent in 1995 to 60 percent in 2000. Among the eight revenue streams financing
compulsory education provision, education tax and surcharges are ranked second but have been
gradually decreasing. The share of social donations decreased significantly between 1995 and
2000 from third to sixth place. However, fees from families have become increasingly
important, rising to thirdplace and accounting for as much as 10 percent of all compulsory
educationrevenue.

Since 1995 the proportionof education expenditure devoted to personnel costs has risen
continuously. For primary schools, non-personnelfunding increasedfrom 71.69 percent of per
student expenditures in 1995 to 76.12 percent in2000, with corresponding reductions in the
proportion of non-personnel expenditures. The trend was similar for junior secondary schools.
Compared to educational expenditures per student inregular primary schools andjunior
secondary schools nationwide, the personnelexpenditure share of recurrent expenditure inrural
areas was higher and increased faster.

Public expenditure in the compulsory education system inrural areas i s therefore undesirable
both inthe level of expenditure and its structure. The poorest counties rely heavily on financial
transfer payments to meet their personnel expenditures leaving few if any resources for
non-personnel expenditures inmany schools.

Table 1:National compulsory education funding, 1995-2000 (unit: 100 million of RMB)

        Year                      1995       1996        1997        1998         1999      2000
        Total funding            1061.89    1284.38    1396.11     1533.96      1668.26    1833.82
        Percentageof GDP (%)       1.82        1.89       1.87        1.96        2.03       2.05




                                               -51 -

Table 2: The structure of national compulsory education funding, 1995-2000(%)




        Data source: The Ministryof Education, China
        Note: The explanationof "other revenue" "the revenuesdifferent from the other sevenrevenueitem, namely, the
        revenuedeliveredfrom subsidiary unit andother revenue except the investmenton school-runenterprises" (See the
        index definitionin "China's EducationalFunding Statistics Yearbook, 2000").

The economic situation of project areas. The project focuses on five of the poorer provinces
and autonomous regions innorthwestern and southwestern China. All of these have substantial
concentrations on poor people. Statistical data show that the economic development of project
provinces lags behind national averages on a range of economic and financial indicators, with the
project counties in a weaker economic position than the average for the project provinces.
Incomeper capita inrural areas of these provinces/autonomous regions rangedfrom 58 percent
(Gansu) to 84 percent (Sichuan) of the national average. Ratios of fiscal spending to locally
generated fiscal income both across project provinces/autonomous regions as a whole and in
project counties were all above 100%. In Sichuan, for example, expenditures by project counties
were more than four times as high as locally generated revenues, providing an indicationof the
extent of their reliance on intergovernmental transfers.

Compared to the provincial average, educational funding inproject counties depended more
heavily on government budgetary appropriation and the sources from non-governmental
appropriation (such as direct charges and fees) intotal education funding were smaller. Project
counties use more of their education resources on personnel costs, and the percentage devoted to
meeting non-personnel costs including civil works i s small. Overall, education funding at county
level i s inadequate to support teachers' salaries and non-personnel expenditures. The project's
targeting of investments, as that relates to the aim of targeting economically poor areas with a
weak education financing position, can therefore be consideredbroadly appropriate. Targeting
also took account of education performance indicators.

Educational spending by households in project areas, and cost barriers to access. Inorder
to assess the economic burden of education on individual households, a household survey was
conducted during June 2002 in 600 households of eight project counties within the two project
provinces of Sichuan and Guangxi. The survey was undertaken with the help of the Rural
Socioeconomic Survey Teams of the State Statistics Bureau. The main conclusions from the
 survey, which are consistent with the findings of other such similar research including the social
 assessment for this project, are summarized as follows:

         Householdeducation spending on primary school students mainlygoes toward fees and
         textbook expenditures, while fees, textbook expenditures, and food expenditures


                                                         - 52 -

       constituted the major elements of householdeducational spending atjunior secondary
       level.

       The average percentage of household education expenditure to total household
        expenditure was highin all the counties surveyed. Within the survey sample education
        costs account for 13.7 percent of total householdexpenditures, a small increase compared
        to similar survey findings obtained in 1995, which showed about 10percent. Compared
        to the 1995 research results, there has been a substantial increase inthe proportion of
        households devoting 20 percent or more of total householdexpenditure to education.
        Approximately 18.6 percent of the sample households had a percentage of household
        educational expenditure to the householdtotal expenditure equal to or greater than 20
        percent.

        The survey found significant differences inexpenditures on food, boarding, and
        transportation between boarding and non-boarding students (although the sample size for
        primary level borders was small). The percentage of household educational expenditure
        to household total expenditure for boarding students on average was 20.9 percent, and to
        householdnet income, 28.9 percent. During the 2000-2001 academic year, the private
        educational spending on average for boarding students was 1165 RMB and for
        non-boarding students was 311RMB. Textbook costs were broadly similar, but
        expenditure in most other categories was significantly higher for boarding students,
        particularly traveling, food and lodging costs.

Finally, the survey showed that more than 20 percent of the households that hadchildren in
school took loans andreceiveddonations from relatives and friends inorder to support their
children's education.

The survey also investigatededucational aspirations amongst parents (around 72 percent of
children's parents hoped that their children would be able to receive a higher education) and the
role of cost inlimiting access to education for some children. The findings of the social
assessment, which surveyed different locations and groups, are also instructive on these issues.

The enrolment rate and the rate of universal nine-year education in school-age population are
relatively low inthe project areas, with relatively highdrop out rates. The household survey
found the dropout rate inthe 13-15 school-age group (about the school-age injunior secondary
school) to be higher than that of the 7-12 school-age group (about the school-age inprimary
school). The survey did not find a significant difference indrop out rates betweenHan and
minority children, although the social assessment, which surveyed different areas and groups,
indicated that amongst minorities, which tend to be poorer, highdrop out remains a serious
problem, both due to inability to cope with educational expenses and distance from school.

Of the families with children who have dropped out of school, 30.8 percent thought economic
difficulties are the main reason, 47.7 percent blamed children's poor grades or difficulties in
learning, and 10.8 percent thought that their children were not receiving education of sufficient
quality due to a lack of qualified teachers. This lack of high-quality teachers has therefore not


                                                 - 53 -

only deprived children of the right to enhance their learning capacity and studying methods, it has
also been an important factor leading children to drop out.

Student assistance. All the project provinces have many different channels for financing
student assistance, includingprograms such as grant-in-aid to students, remitting of incidental
fees, textbook subsidies andprovision of free lunches amongst others. Consultations with
project provinces showed that provincial education bureaus are not interestedin usingforeign
loans to support student assistanceprograms.
Yunnan province, for example, has experience of providing student assistance at compulsory
educational level, utilizing loan and counterpart funding from World Bank projects under the
Southwest Poverty Project (1995-2001). Staff involved, inboth the province and project
counties were unenthusiastic about this experience. The fiscal departments of local governments
usually preferred to accept specific grant transfers from central or provincial governments to
finance student assistance, rather than loans from foreign organizations which needed to be
repaid. Inaddition under the South West poverty project, student subsidies were financed
through the establishment of a foundation. Only the foundation's interest income (usually
withdrawn from a bank) was used to finance student assistance programs. Bank interest rates
have beenreduced several times over past years, and the interest income was insufficient to meet
the needs of poor students' in the project areas. Management costs were also high.

The impact of fiscal reform on educational funding inproject areas. In2002,20 provinces
inChinabeganpiloting fiscal reforms (including Sichuanand Gansu provinces, andNingxia
autonomous region). This fiscal reform will be rolled out nationally in 2003. The purpose of the
reform i s to regulate the system for collecting fees, reduce the collection of illegal fees, and
alleviate the burdens on farmers. After the reform, some important channels of education
revenue inrural areas, such as education surcharges, unregulated funds raised from peasants and
others will be stopped.

Although central and provincial governments are expected to increase transfer payments after the
fee-to-tax reform, educationbureaus have expressed concern about future education revenues
once the pilot program i s spread to all provinces in China. Central and provincial transfers are
not earmarked so decisions concerning the proportion allocated to education are made locally and
can be quite arbitrary, with no guarantee that the full shortfall in education finance resulting from
the reform will be compensated. Inaddition, they are concerned that despite the central and
provincial governments' promise to increase education transfer payments resources will still be
insufficient to fill the gap. They expect that teachers' salaries will be guaranteed but that funds to
meet non-personnel costs would be much less certain, especially resources to support the
reduction of dangerous classrooms and schools.

Prior to the introduction of this reform, education surcharges, collections from peasants,
voluntary labor and other charges accounted for a very large percent of education revenue in rural
areas. Inthe case of Sichuan, this was almost 40 percent of the total education expenditure. The
project provinces estimated the direct funding gap resulting from the rural fiscal reforms. If rural
education surcharges and donations are completely abolished after the fiscal reforms, the direct
funding gap caused by rural fiscal reforms can be estimatedby calculating the per student rural


                                                 - 54 -

education surcharges and funds raised from peasants in2001 and multiplying this by the number
of school-age population ineach year after 2002. These estimates are given inTable 3 andTable
4.


Table 3: The educational revenue versus expenditure gap causedby fiscal reforminproject provinces (in
100million RMB)
                   2001
                     ~~       ~ 2002       2003       2004       2005       2006         2007
                                         ~


        Guangxi    5.994        6.151       6.105       6.120     6.042       5.925       5.784
        Sichuan    9.336        9.949       9.657       9.379     9.063       8.727        8.587
        Yunnan     3.641        3.816       3.768       3.731     3.715       3.690       3.678
        Gansu      2.484        2.538       2.382       2.202     2.064       1.968        1.948




                   2001         2002       2003        2004      2005       2006          2007
        Guangxi    0.436        0.430       0.422       0.410     0.401       0.390        0.380
        Sichuan    1.211        1.496        1.469      1.465     1.471       1.392        1.365
        Yunnan     0.649        0.653       0.644       0.634     0.622       0 609
                                                                               I           0.598
        Gansu      0.533        0.498       0.512       0.527     0.539       0.546        0.531


Due to the fragility of fiscal capacity of county and below levels, great challenges will be faced in
poor rural areas. Ifcentral andprovincial government could not increase transfer of payments on
a large scale, huge gaps will emerge inthe near future in educational fundinginproject areas,
particularly in the terms of non-personnel expenses.

Project counterpartfundingand sustainability

Counterpart funding. A review of the first four Bank-supportedbasic educationprojects
showed that that the 1:1counterpart ratio put pressure on budgets of the nationally designated
poor counties participating in the projects. Examples of inadequate provision of counterpart
funds, delayedreimbursement anddefaultedpayments to construction teams for project civil
works will have had an impact on project progress and quality.

Table 5 shows the counterpart funding expectation for the project provinces and counties. The
analysis indicates that it will be difficult for some poor counties to complete the plan of
counterpart funding for the project if counties do not receive adequate transfer payments from the
central and provincial government, particularly inthe context of the fee-to-tax reforms. All
project provinces and autonomous regions are making some contribution to the provision of
counterpart funding for at least some of the counties involved inthe project.

Table 5: The arrangement of counterpart funding inproject counties and the percentage o f counterpart
fundingto local fiscal income (10thousand RMB)




                                                  - 55 -

                           ^,-.,-.^       -.
                           LUU3           LUU4          Lm             LUUb        LUUI       'l'otal
         The arrangementof counterpart funding ineach year
         Guangxi                696.8       696.8          696.8         696.8        696.8         348
         Sichuan                907.5       907.5          907.5         907.5        907.5         453
         Yunnan                 892.1       892.1           892.1        892.1        892.1         446
         Gansu                  330.4       330.4          330.4         330.4        330.4          165
         Ningxia                495.6       495.6          495.6         495.6        495.6          241
         The counterpartfunding as percentageto local fiscal income (%)
         Guangxi                  0.25       0.24             0.23        0.22         0.21
         Sichuan                  0.20       0.19             0.18        0.18         0.17
         Yunnan                   0.13       0.13             0.12        0.12         0.11
         Gansu                    0.14       0.13             0.12        0.12         0.11
         Ningxia                  0.12       0.12             0.11        0.10         0.10

         Note: the counterpart funding in project counties i s estimated as 40 percent of total
         counterpart funding of the province, assuming that the growth rate of local fiscal income
         per year i s 5 percent.


Financial Sustainability. Inorder to maintain the condition of fixed assets and guarantee the
sustainability of project investments, an estimation of recurrent cost of the investment (RCI) after
the project i s given inTable 7. Coefficients for civil works, equipment, desk and chairs and
training have all followed the criteria used inthe Bank-support FourthBasic Education province
(See table 6). The coefficient for IT was set at 0.03. The recurrent cost will not be
inconsequential relative to the public expenses of the project counties.


        Table 6: RCIcoefficients

                         Civil work       Apparatus        Desk and        Training        Information
                                                           chair                           system
        Coefficient      0.025            0.035            0.020           0.002          0.030



        Province        Civil          Equipment Desk and          Training     Information Total
                       work                       chair                         system
        Guangxi       400.6            21.2         10.1           0.6          10.2             442.6
       I Sichuan      1516.8          135.8       I 0.0           I 1.3       I 10.1           I 564.1    I
         Yunnan       494.8            0.0          12.9            1.8         16.6             526.0
       IGansu         185.9            14.5         8.3                         12.4             221.o
         Ningxia      1254.9          I34.7       I 6.4           I 0.0
                                                                    1.1       I 1.1            1298.3

Other financial risks. Inaddition to the risks to project funding such as the provision of
counterpart funding and repayment funding there will be other non-project financial risks
includingin particular the possibility of exchange rate changes. This risk i s expected to be low



                                                    - 56 -

duringthe periodof project implementation, though rises somewhat over the longer time frame
of repayment. The Chinese renminbi i s currently fixed against the U S dollar, and exchange rate
restrictions are inplace. A move toward depreciation and/or floating of the currency i s widely
expected to be unlikely over the short term. Current professional and market opinion i s that a
removal of exchange rate restrictions and floating of the current would most likely result in a
depreciation of the renminbiagainst eth dollar, which would reduce the renmenbi cost of
repayment to project counties and provinces. Project governments at province level have
provided guarantees to meet the repayment obligations of their project counties incase of
difficulty.

Analysis of projectreturns. Researchers at the Institute of Economics of Education at Peking
University estimated the economic rates of return to schooling inrural China. The data set for
this study contains informationof economic income and expense on more than 6000 rural
residents in 1996. The major conclusions included:

   0    The marginal impact of education on income i s positive and significant. An additional
        year of schooling can result in about 180 RMB more in annual income.

   0    The Mincer rate of return i s 5.13 percent. Estimates of this variable by other researchers
        produced values of 2 percent in 1988 on a dataset of 28 provincial rural residents, and
        4.8 percent in 1991 on a dataset of central and southern-west ruralarea.

   0    The internal returns of education at various levels are estimated as follows: 26.49 percent
        for primary schools; 1.33 percent for junior secondary schools; 0.38 percent for senior
         secondary schools (including vocational schools); 1.02 percent for senior regular
         secondary schools; 2.04 percent for vocational schools.

Conclusions. Insummary, the economic and financial analysis undertaken duringproject
preparation and appraisal has: (a) documented the economic effects of investment inbasic
education inpoor areas; (b) resulted inthe revision of provincial proposals to ensure financial
feasibility duringproject implementation and financial sustainability after project completion; (c)
reduced the burden of counterpart fundingon poor counties and thus the risk of inadequate
counterpart funding duringproject implementation, (d) encouraged additional education funds
for project activities from higher levels of government to poor counties (thusresulting in
increased mobilization and equality incompulsory education); and (e) provided additional
empirical support for the continuation of student assistance for poor students using government
resources.

Summary of benefits and costs:
Not Applicable.

MainAssumptions:
Not Applicable.

Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Not Applicable.


                                                - 57 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
                         CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project
                                             Years Ending
                                              December31

                           I  Year1    I  Year2     I  Year3   I   Year4    1  Year5    I   Year6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs               9.5           36.4       55.5         34.1          6.9        2.7     1.2
 Recurrent Costs                 0.0            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs              9.5           36.4       55.5         34.1          6.9        2.7     1.2
              Front-endfee        1.o           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Financina                 10.5           36.4       55.5         34.1          6.9        2.7     1.2
Financing
   IBRD/IDA                       6.6          24.8       37.6         22.9          4.4        1.8     0.8
   Government                     2.9          11.6       17.9         11.2          2.5        0.9     0.4
      Central                     0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
       Provincial                 0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
   Co-financiers                  0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
User FeedBeneficiaries            0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
Upfront Fee                       1.o           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0     0.0
 Total Project Financing         10.5          36.4       55.5         34.1          6.9        2.7     1.2
Main assumptions:
This project will be implementedduringsix twelve-month periods of time over seven calendar years
beginningwith retroactivefinancing that starts March 1,2003 andproject closing March 31,2009.




                                                   - 58 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                      CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

Procurement
Summary of the Assessment of Agencies' ProcurementCapacity

The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of Ministry of Education (MOE) will be
responsible for overall leadership in the project implementation and provide overall procurement
guidance to provinces. The five project provinces have designated a Project Management Office
(PMO) as the implementingagencies under each provincial education department and will be
responsible for the overall implementation of the project with specific responsibility for
procurement of Goods as well as Civil Works procurement with the assistance of the county level
implementation units.

A procurement assessmentwas conducted during the preparation periodand found that the: (i)
implementing agencies (PMOs) are fully staffed and authorized to implement the project; (ii)
PMO staff have participated inthe implementation of previous Bank-supportedbasic education
projects and are familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures; (iii)  PMOshave upgradedthe
procurement managementmanuals developed by previous Bank-supported basic education
projects; and (iv) Model BiddingDocuments (MBD) and Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD)
will be used for all project procurement. The conclusion of assessmenti s that the project
implementing agencies are capable of carrying out procurement activities within the project.
Moreover, areas that need strengthening, such as the training of county staff inprocurement
procedures, have been identifiedand an action plan for improving their skills has been agreed.
The action plan includes training activities and recruitment of appropriate staff for county for
implementation and procurement activities. Inaddition, MOEEILO with twenty years of
implementation experience with Bank-supportedprojects will play a key role in assisting
provincial and county implementation units in the procurement activities inthis project.

 The assessment also identified some shortcomings in China's general procurement framework,
 especially the Chinese BiddingLaw that became effective January 1,2000. These shortcomings
 are as follows:

             preparation of cost estimates are based on out-of-date norms and guidelines and they
             are mandatory;
             there i s a shorter bidpreparationperiod (20 days);
         0   bracketing i s used for evaluation under Works contracts;
         0   a merit point system (scoring system) i s usedfor bid evaluation; and
             biddingcanbe cancelled with less than three bidders.

 These are county-wide issues that are beingaddressed in the ongoing OPR. This project will
 ensure that provisions will be incorporatedinto the procurement schedule of the Loan Agreement
 to confirm that there are exemptions to the Chinese Bidding Law for Bank-financed procurement
 and that Bank procurement Guidelines are always used when there are difference between the
 Bank Guidelines and the Chinese Bidding Law. Specific provisions will be indicated in the



                                                 - 59 -

Procurement Schedule of the Loan Agreement to cover the difference between Bank procedures
and Chinese Laws for NCB.

Procurement Arrangements

Procurement Plans. The five project provincial PMOShave developed aprocurement plan for
the first year of works activities inline with provincial environmental and geographic conditions.
These plans include packaging plans (323 contracts) and a time schedule. The Bidding
documents for the first two NCB works will be sent to the Bank for prior review based on the
procurement plans which include retroactive financing. It i s planned for approximately 10-20
percent of the total civil works contracts to begin in 2003. Goods procurement will not begin
untilsecond year of project implementation. The planwill be adjustedandupdatedannually to
reflect the latest changes and demands.

Construction Standards. School buildings financed by the project will be designedbased on
National Standards issuedby the SRDC, Ministry of Construction (MOC) and MOE. National
standards included the provision of clear water supply and toilets for students. County officials
will also address the needs of disabledchildren inthe construction designs when appropriate.
Noise and construction waste control requirements will be included in the civil works bidding
documents as well as the contracts.

Advertisement Requirements. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published inthe
UnitedNations Development Business (UNDB)and updated every year during the life of the
project. In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for all ICB (if the case) and NCB
procurement activities mustbe published inat least one newspaper with a provincial circulation.
Ifthe project requiresconsultant services from firms then the consultant assignments for the
consulting firms mustbe advertised in a national gazette or a national newspaper.

         Procurement Procedures. Bank Guidelines will govern all Bank-financed procurement
under the project. The Bank Guidelines and the procurement forms that mustbe used for all
project-supported procurement are as follows:

             The Procurement of Goods and Works: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA
             Credits (dated January 1995,revised January and August 1996,September 1997, and
             January 1999);and
             The Procurement of Consultants: Selection andEmployment of Consultants by
             World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,revised September 1997,January 1999,and
             May 2002).
             Model BiddingDocuments: The Bank-approvedChinese Model BiddingDocuments
             (MBD),includingWorks and Goods ICB, NCB, Standard BidEvaluation Formof
             Works and Goods will be adopted for all ICB (if the case) and NCB activities for
             Works 'and Goods.
        0    Evaluation Report and Contract under consultant selection: Bank's Sample Formof
             Evaluation Report and Standard Contract will be usedfor the consulting service
             contracts.



                                                 - 60 -

            Project-specific Documents: a model procurement document for Works and Goods
            usingshopping procedures will bepreparedand usedby the PMOS.

Procurement methods(Table A)

Civil Works (US$89.95 million equivalent). This includes new construction as well as major
and minor repairs of school buildings. Most of the schools are in small villages or dispersed
rural areas inremote locations with construction spread over time resulting inhighmobilization
cost for foreign contractors and therefore it i s unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested
inbidding. Considered the natureof the project and that proposedproject sites are scattered ina
vast remote area, international competitive bidding (ICB) for civil works would not be foreseen
as individual contracts are not expected to cost more than US$4 million. However, if any contract
costs more than US$4,000,000, ICB shall be followed. The National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedure will be used for the new school buildingconstruction and packaged major repairs
costing US$50,000 or more, but less than US$4 millionper contract, up to an aggregate of
US$62.97 million. Small works contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO up to an aggregate not
to exceed US26.98 millionequivalent will be procured following lump sum contracts on the
basis of three quotations as stated in Article 3.5 and 3.6 of the guidelines.

Goods (US$35.22 million equivalent). Procurement of teaching equipment and reference books
for libraries inprimary and secondary schools; furniture - desks and chairs for students in
primary and secondary schools will be conducted as Goods procurement. Teaching Equipment
and Library books are selected by schools, county and provincial education authorities from a list
preparedby MOE and provincial education bureaus and supplied by competing companies. Past
experience and review of teaching equipment and library book procurement contracts indicate
that competition, based on price, have been the main factor inawarding of provincial contracts
for teaching equipment and library books. Experience with the implementation of earlier
Bank-supportedbasic educationprojects indicates that it i s highly unlikely that International
Competitive Bidding(ICB) will be neededfor procurement of goods for the project. However,
 should there be equipment and instrumentsprocurement with contracts of US$300,000 or above,
 they will be awarded through ICB. NCB will be used for contracts estimated to cost more than
 US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 each for goods, including the primary andjunior secondary
 school teaching equipment, library books and furniture up to an aggregate amount not expected
 to exceed US26.98 million. Goods contracts with an estimated value of less than US$50,000
 each and an aggregate amount equivalent to US8.24 million for the project will be awarded
 under shopping procedures after solicitation and evaluation of at least three written price
 quotations.

 Consultant Services (US$0.14 millionequivalent) and Training (US$21.03 million
 equivalent). The total amount for consultant services i s US$0.14 million will include use of
 education research institutions and academics by project provinces to advise and consult on
 teaching methodology reform and curriculum reform. Selection of these consultants will be
 based on consultants' qualifications for the contract estimated cost less than US$lOO,OOO per
 contract up to an aggregate value not exceed US$0.07 million and selection of individual
 consultants for contract under US$lOO,OOO per contract with an aggregate amount equivalent to
 US$0.07 million.


                                                   -61 -

Most training activities are local training including workshops and seminars for school policy
m a ' m and a         .- .  m     a                secondary teachers, teacher assistants, parents and
communities, andproject management personnel, Subject areas include teacher material and
classroom guidelines, monitoring and evaluation, EMIS, training of trainers and project
management. Teacher training colleges and institutions under the ProvincialEducation Bureaus
and MOE, because of their unique and exceptional nature and no suitable alternative from private
sector are available in China, may be hired to provide training services. A few overseas study
tours and national conferences will also be includedunder this category. Destinations for
overseas study tours and national conferences will be selected on the basis of relevance and
quality of programs, cost and prior experience. Content and costs of training activities for each
year will be reviewed and approved each year inthe annual work plan for the project.

                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                                (US$ million equivalent)




                                                (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.OO)           (0.00)         (1.OO)
   Total                                         0.00               89.95             57.39           0.00           147.34
                                                (0.00)             (61.24)           (38.76)      I   (0.00)     I  (100.00)
 "Figuresinparenthesesarethe amounts to befinancedbytheBankLoan. Allcostsinclude contingencies.

 ?'Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
   staff o f the project management office, training, and technical assistanceservices related to (i)
                                                                                                    managing the project,
   and (ii)  re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                           - 62 -

                       Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                          II IC                Ill]
                                                                  \




1\Including contingencies

          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                 Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F.= Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                    - 63 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Works. All contracts for works estimatedto cost equivalent of US$4,000,000 or more; andthe
first two contracts ineach year tor works procured inline with NCBprocedure ineach province;

Goods. All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; and the
first contract for teaching equipment andreferencebooks procured in accordance with NCB
procedure ineach province; and

ConsultantServices. All contracts above US$lOO,OOO for firms and all contracts above
US$50,000 for individuals will be prior reviewed. All other consultant contracts below prior
review threshold will be subject to random post review. In addition, all single source contracts, if
any, and TORSfor all consultants contracts will be subject to prior review regardless of value.

Post Review. It i s expected that post review of documents related to 25 percent of contracts will
be conducted according to Bank guidelines.
                  Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




                                                                                              Firsttwo NCB contracts




                               I       <US$300,000            I           NCB               I  FirstNCB contract for
                                                                                                    each province
                                        <US$50,000                  National shopping
 3. Services(Consu1tant)               <us$100,000                         CQ                  >US$ 100,000 (if any)
  Firms                                                                                                           - .


 4. Individual                          <US$50,000                     Individual               >US$50,000 (if any)

                  Total value of contractssubjectto prior review: US$2-4 million
                             Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment: Average
      Frequency of procurementsupervision missions proposed:                 One every six months
                                                                             (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                             for post-review/audits)


 l\Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency'sCapacity to Implement
   Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                        - 64 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                      CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

Financial Management
1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment

Conclusionof FMassessment. The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of
the project financial management system of the Basic Education in Western Areas Project (Full
FMassessmentreport available inproject file). The assessment,basedon guidelinesissuedby
the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30,2001, has concluded that the project meets
minimumBank financial managementrequirements, as stipulatedinBP/OP 10.02. Inthe team's
opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project
inthe reportingformat agreed with the project and as requiredby the Bank.

Fundingsources for the project include Bank loan, grants by the UnitedKingdom's Department
for International Development (DFID)and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be signed
between the Bank and the People's Republic of China through its Ministry of Finance, and
on-lend arrangement for the Bank loans will be signed between MOF and participating provincial
governments through respective provincial finance bureaus, and between provincial governments
and municipakounty governments. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into the
special accounts to be set up for the project inrespect of reimbursable expenditures incurred, or
to contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major commercial banks acceptable to the
Bank. DFID will provide a grant to soften the terms of the loan for highpriority social sector
projects with overwhelming objective of poverty alleviation. The counterpart funds will come
from provincial and county government and contributed directly to the project. Interms of
disbursement technique, the project will be disbursingbased on the traditional disbursement
 techniques and will not be usingPMR-based disbursements, inaccordance with the agreement
between the Bank and MOF.

 N o outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involvedinthe
 proposedproject. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management
 matters and audit covenants duringproject supervisions.

 Country Issues. To date, no CFAA has beenperformed for China, though dialogue with the
 Government of China inrespect o f the CFAA exercise has been initiated and underway. The
 planned approach to CFAA i s to build on the Asian Development Bank's study of Financial
 Management and Governance Issues in China in 2000, and analyze areas that have changed
 rapidly inthe past few years or that deserve further scrutiny and over time cover all major areas
 usually assessed as part of a full CFAA exercise. Currently, for reference purpose, the Bank
 relies on the study work conducted by the Asian Development Bank.

 Nevertheless, based on observations of developments in the areas of public expenditures,
 accounting and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we note
 that substantial achievement in the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement


                                                 - 65 -

     i s expected in the next few years. As economic reform program further unfolds, the Government
     of China has come to realize the importance of establishing and maintaining an efficient and
k  s      p        a       r       e        n      c       y ana accountability, and minimize potential
     fraud or corruption.

     Due to rather unique arrangement by the Government of China, funding (inparticular Bank loan)
     of Bank projects i s controlled and monitored by MOF and its extension, Le. finance bureaus at
     provincial, municipal/prefecture and county level. However, project activities are usually carried
     out by implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector, mainly due to technical expertise
     required for project implementation. The above arrangement then usually requires frequent and
     close coordination work on the project, as multilevel management of funding and
     implementation mechanism often presents a great challenge to smooth project implementation.
     As such, this assessment focuses on respectiveprovincial finance bureaus of participating
     provinces, which will handle Special Account activities for the project, and Project Management
      Office, which will be responsible for managing and implementingvarious components of the
     project.

      StrengthsandWeaknesses. i) Strengths-To date, there has beenfifteen education projects in
      China and all the participating provinces of the proposed Basic Education inWestern Areas
      project have had different level of experience from previous education projects and are familiar
      with Bank's procedures or requirements. The MOEFILO, established since the Bank's first
      education project inChina, has been established at the central level to handle overall financial
      management aspects of the project. The valuable experience gained by FILO from prior Bank
      assisted projects will be passed on to the proposedproject. There i s a strong sense of
      commitment from the proposed project to sound financial management practice and compliance
      with Bank's disbursement procedures. ii)Weaknesses-Though project staff of 5 provinces
      identifiedto assume financial and accounting work for the project have relevant academic
      background and work experience, they nonetheless have less exposure to internationally accepted
       standard practices and therefore would require closer monitoring and assistance from the Bank,
      inparticular at the initialimplementation stage. Training inproject financial management should
      be providedby FILO prior to effectiveness, and Bank will provide assistance as and when needed
       throughout project implementation. Basedon experience from prior education projects, and the
       fact that there will be five project provinces (with 112project counties), the major concern lies in
       the complicated and long reimbursement process. Inmost cases, the lack of sufficient revolving
       funds at eachprovinces andwell-defined withdrawal application procedures at Project
       Management Offices (PMOS)and finance bureaus at various levels are the factors giving rise to
       the long and complicated process.

       ImplementingEntity. At the centrallevel the MOE/FILO of the Ministryof Education (MOE)
       will be the decision-making body of the project and will coordinate the work of the project and
       ensure that resources from the Bank/DFID loan are distributed in a timely and efficient fashion.
       FILO will be responsible for monitoring the ongoing implementation of the project as well as
       coordinating the national level training, study tour, research and dissemination activities. F L O
       would also be responsible for working with the Bank and DFIDteams on the supervision of the
       implementation of the project. FILO has been inplace for more than twenty years and been



                                                       - 66 -

responsible for the implementation of more than fifteen Bank-supported project


L-lL
A L                                   la1c-eaus               wiii set up provincial impiementation
units (Project Management Office) which will a) mobilize institutional, technical and financial
resources and support the preparation and implementation of the project; b) coordinate the
provision of the provincial level counterpart fundingfor the project; and c) provide a critical
coordination and monitoring function.

At the county level, project implementation offices will be set up to oversee the implementation
of the project at the township level. This will include ensuring adequate financial resources for
counterpart funding for the project as well as monitoring the targeting of project resources at the
township level.

Fundsflow. i) Bankfunds The Bankloan will be signed with MOFand on-lending
arrangement will be executed between MOF and finance bureaus at provincial/municipal/county
level. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the special accounts to be set up at and
maintainedby respective provincialfinance bureaus (PFB),municipal finance bureaus (MFB),
 county finance bureaus (CFB), county PMOS,and/or to contractors or suppliers;                ii)
 Counterpart funds will be contributed by the provincial and county governments. Majority of the
 funds will be investedby the provincialgovernments and for some poor areas no counterpart
 fundcontributions from the county levelwill be required. The counterpart funds by provincial
 government will follow similar flow pattern of Bank funds; iii) DFID grant funds are used to
 soften the lending terms of the IBRDloan for highpriority social sector projects with
 overwhelming objective of poverty alleviation and will flow from DFIDdirectly to the Bank.

 Staffing. Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience
 commensurate with the work they are expected to performi s one of the factors critical to
 successful implementation of project financial management. Basedon discussions, observation
 and review of educational background and work experience, the task team notes that staff
 identifiedfor financial or accounting positions are qualified and appropriate.

 Though all project provinces have participated inprior Bank financed projects, some of the
  financial or accounting staff identifiedfor the project nonetheless lack direct experience in Bank
  projects. To ensure that staff recruited for the project will have good understanding of Bank's
  policy and requirements, it has been further agreed that a well-designed and focused training
  programwill be providedprior to effectiveness to all staff concerned

  Inorder to facilitate financial management work, the task team hasrecommendedthat aProject
  Financial ManagementManual (Manual) be prepared. The role and responsibility of the
  financial/accounting staff at each level, as well as operational procedures, such as withdrawal
  applications and preparation of financial statements, should be clearly defined and recorded in
  the Manual. Final version of the Manual should be issuedto all relevant staff prior to
  effectiveness.

  Accounting Policies and Procedures. The administration, accounting and reporting of the

project will be set up in accordance with the following accounting standards or circular issuedby
MOF:
w    Iniine with Bank financedprojects inchina, the project wiii use the "'l'emporary Kegulations
     on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank"
     (Circular No. 127 issuedin 1993)by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of
     project financial statements and managementreports. Accrual accounting and double-entry
     bookkeeping will be adoptedby the project.
0    Circular No.12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in
     December 1996by MOF- includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting
     withdrawal applications and retention of supporting documentation.
     Circular No.13: "TheAccounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issuedin
     January 2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment
     of project activities and covers the following:

                     Chart of account
                     Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
                     Standard set of project financial statements
                0    Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements

The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the
 Bank and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the
 following:

                     Balance sheet
                     Statement of source and use of fund
                     Statement of implementation of credit/loan/grant agreement
                     Statement of special account

 Both circular No. 127 and 13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for
 State-owned, Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the 'Standards'), taking into consideration unique
 characteristics of Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of the
 International Accounting Standards and provides detailed guidelines appropriate for Bank
 projects.

 Eachcounty PMOSwill be managing and maintaining respectiveproject accounts, and preparing
 financial statements. Original supporting documents for project activities will be retainedby
 originating project implementing units, i.e. county PMOs. The consolidation process requires
 that PMO at municipallevel collects and consolidates project financial statements prepared and
 submitted by county PMOs. The provincial PMO collects and consolidates project financial
 statements submitted by municipal level to arrive at the consolidated provincial level before
 sending by the provincial PMO to the Bank for review and comment. For the portion executed
 by MOE, FILO will be incharge of keeping the records of project activities, preparing project
 financial statements and submittingthe statements to the Bank for review and comment on a
 regular basis.




                                                  - 68 -

Internal Audit. The project will have no formal internal audit establishment. However, FILO,
PMOs and finance bureaus at all levels will carry out regular supervision.

Reporting and Monitoring and Format of FinancialStatements. Eachproject province will
prepare its own consolidatedproject financial statements. The consolidation process requires
that PMO at municipal level collects and consolidates project financial statements prepared and
submitted by county PMOs. The provincial PMO collects and consolidates project financial
statements submitted by municipal level to arrive at the consolidated provincial levelbefore
sending by provincial PMO to the Bank for review and comment.

The format and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard
project reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and
agreed with all parties concerned. The project consolidated financial statements will be
submitted as part of the Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank for review and comment on a
semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 of the subsequent year) and include the
following four statements:

                    Balance Sheet
                    Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component
                    Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
               0    Statement of Special Account

 Information Systems. Due to the vast number of implementing units involved, and relatively
 limited transaction volume for each individualimplementing agencies, an informationsystem
 based on a manual basis will be sufficient and practical for the project. However, an accounting
 software package developed by WBOB will be recommended for bookkeeping and financial
 reporting purposes, mainly due to the unique features of the software package and the nature of
 the project.

 Supervision Plan. As five provinces and more than 112counties will be involvedin the project,
 the financial management would require constant assistance from and close monitoringby the
 Bank, due to relatively complicated management structure and less exposure of project financial
 and accounting staff to international standard practices. A financial management or
 disbursement officer should participate in the supervision missions on a regular basis to ensure
 smooth proceeding of project financial management related matters. More frequent
 FMDisbursement mission schedule i s strongly recommended for the initial implementation stage
 to ensure proper FMDisbursement setup and operations. Project implementing agencies selected
 for FM/Disbursement site visits should be on a rotational basis, or those found to require
 immediate attention. In addition, to maximize efficiency and effectiveness of supervision
 mission, procurement and FM/SOE/disbursement reviews should be carried out simultaneously.




                                                - 69 -

2. Audit Arrangements

The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. Inline with Bank financed projects inChina, the project will be audited
inaccordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (the
1997 edition). The Foreign FundsApplication Audit Department of the China National Audit
Office (CNAO) and provincial audit bureaus ineach participating provinces have been identified
as auditors for the project. For the portions directly implemented by the participating provinces,
the audit reports will be issuedby respective provincial audit bureaus; For the portion executed
by MOE, the audit report will be issuedby CNAO. The Bank currently accepts audit reports
issuedby CNAO or provincial audit bureaus for which CNAO i s ultimately responsible. Audit
reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of the end
of each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special
Account.

3. DisbursementArrangements

1.The Bank loans will be disbursedagainst: (i) percent for works; (ii) 100percent of
                                                  75                        goods:
the foreign expenditures; 100percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured
items; 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally; (iii)
                                                                              91 percent of the
expenditures for consulting services, and (iv) 100percent for study tours and training. N o direct
contracting or special commitments are anticipated in the project.

2. To facilitate disbursement, five SpecialAccounts will be establishedfor each of the
participating provinces and MOE. The provincial finance bureaus (PFB) of the five participating
provinces will be responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of
respective Special Account activities. Supporting documents required for Bank disbursements
 will be prepared and submittedby county PMOs through various finance bureaus and PMOs at
 county/municipal/provincialto PFB for final verification and consolidation before sendingby
 PFB to the Bank for further disbursement processing. For the portionimplemented by MOE, the
 application'will be preparedby MOE, further reviewedby MOFbefore sending by MOF to the
 Bank for processing.

  Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
 1. The proposedLoan of US$ 100millionwould be disbursed over a periodof approximately
 six years. The project closing date i s March 31, 2009. The allocation of Loan proceeds by IBRD
 i s shown inTable C.

 2. To ensure timely start-upof the project, retroactive financing of up to US$10million would
 be available for payments made for eligible expenditures for works and training incurred after
 March 1,2003.




                                                 - 70 -

Provincial Distributionof Loan Funds. The distribution o f loan funds i s as follows:

Yunnan Province                USD 27.0 Million
Sichuan Province               USD 27.0 Million
Gansu Province                 USD 10.0Million
Ningxia Province               USD 15.0Million
Guangxi Province               USD 21.0 Million

                               Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds




                                                                     100%of foreign expenditures and 100%
                                                                     of local expenditures (ex-factory costs),
                                                                     and 75% of local expenditures for other



ITrainine and Studv Tours                 I        14.10          I                   100%

1Total Project Costs with Bank Financing1          99.00
I                            Front-end feel         1.oo

(Total                                    I        100.00         III

 Use of statementsof expenditures (SOEs):

For expenditures pertaining to civil works contracts valued at less than $4,000,000: goods
contracts valued at less than $300,000, and consulting contracts valued at less than $100,000 for
firms and $50,000 for individuals and all training and study tours, reimbursement will be made
on the basis of Statement of Expenditures. Supporting documents neednot be submitted to the
Bank but will be retained inthe project for review by the Bank supervision missions.

 Special account:
The Special Account (SA) would be establishedinUS dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable
 to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The SA would be used for all
 eligible foreign and local expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account
 would be submitted monthly or whenever the Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent
 of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. The authorized allocation of SA will be equivalent
 to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via SA, as follows:

0    Yunnan: The authorized allocation will be US$ 1,700,000.
0    Guangxi: The authorized allocation will be US$1,500,000.
0    Sichuan: The authorized allocation will be US$ 1,700,000.
0    Gansu:      The authorized allocation will be US$ 800,000.
0     Ningxia: The authorized allocation will be US$ 1,000,000.



                                                 -71 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                     CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project



(Timetaken to prepare the project (months)
IFirst                                                   15                               20
      Bank mission (identification)            1I        03/01/2001            II         12/06/2001    II
 Appraisal mission departure                             10/02/2002                       0 414/2003
 Negotiations                                            12/15/2002                       05/19/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                           03/15/2003                       09/30/2003

Preparedby:
FinanceDepartment, Ministry of Education


Preparationassistance:
PHRD TF026772: PHRDTF026649

 Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
                                  I .
         Name                                            SDecialitv
 Halsey Beemer                           Task Team Leader, Lead General Educator
 Eduardo Velez-Bustillo                  Lead General Educator, Social Sector Coordinator, Beijing
 Christopher Thomas                      Senior General Educator
 Sandra Erb                              Operations Officer, Consultant
 Guo Xiaowei                             Procurement Specialist
 Dong Yi                                 Financial Management Specialist
 Dorothy Judkins                         Administrative Support
 Dan Gibson                              Social Scientist
 Wang Chaogang                           Social Scientist
 Carlos Escudero                         Chief Counsel
 Margaret Png                            Senior Counsel
 SusianaIskandar                         Operations Officer, Indonesia
 Rosfita Roesli                           Operations Officer, Indonesia
 Xiao Liping                             Education Specialist
 DingXiaohao                             EducationEconomist
 Robert Prouty                            Peer Reviewer
 Adriaan Verspoor                         Peer Reviewer (QER)
 Robin Hom                                Peer Reviewer (QER)
 KinBingWu                                Peer Reviewer (QER)

 DIFDStaff who workedonthe projectinclude:
 Melanie Curtis (China Education and Health Programme Manager); Stephen Kidd (Social Development
 Adviser); SusanMilner (Education Advisor); Clare Roberts (Economic Advisor); David Levesque
 (Senior Education Advisor); Jillian Popkins (Social Development Advisor); Peter Shelley (Human
 Development Programme Manager-China); Shalini Bahuguna (Social Development Adviser); Myra



                                                  - 72 -

Harrison (Education Advisor-Consultant)


Teachers College, Columbia University); Gregory Eliyu Guldin(Social Scientist); Lisa Croll (Social
Scientist-Consultant )




                                                - 73 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                     CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Provincial Project Implementation Plans. Revised for Appraisal. December 2002
National Project Implementation Plan. Revised for Appriasal. December 2002

8. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification, Preparation, Pre-appraisal and Appraisal aide-memoires and back-to-office reports
Financial Management Assessment. October 8,2002
Procurement Assessment. September 30,2002

C. Other
EthnicMinorities Education Strategy and Matrix
Social Assessment. October 30,2002
Social Assessment Second Set of Consultations Report March 2003
Economic and Financial Analysis-Full Report November 2002
*Including electronicfiles




                                                   - 74 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                     CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project
                                                           02-Oct-2002
                                                                                                                      Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                   GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO70441     2003 Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Highway               250.00       0.00                  0 00    0 00   250 00         0 00      0 00
PO58847     2003 Third Xinjiang Highway Project               15000        0 00                  0 00    0 00   15000          0 00      0 00
PO58846     2002 National Railway Project                     16000        0 00                  0 00    0 00   101 52         4 02      0 00
P064729     2002 SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO          93 90       0 00                  0 00    0 00    93 90         0 47      0 00
P068049     2002 Hubei Hydropower Development in Poor Are     105 00       0 00                  0 00    0 00   10500          3 50      0 00
PO70459     2002 Inner Mongolia Highway Project               10000        0 00                  0 00    0 00   100 00         0 00      0 00
PO71147     2002 CN-TuberculosisControl Project               104 00       0 00                  0 00    0 00   103 33        -0 67      0 00
PO58845     2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                               200 00       0 00                  0 00    0 00   184 07         5 07      0 00
PO51859     2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                           100 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00    87 60         3 02      0 00
PO56199     2001 Third Inland Waterways                        10000       0 00                  0 00    0 00    96 00         0 50      0 00
P056596     2001 Shijiazhuang Urban Transport                  10000       0 00                  0 00    0 00    96 00       32 90       0 00
PO56518     2001 WATER CONSERVATION                            74 00       0 00                  0 00    0 00    59 12         4 17      0 00
PO45915     2001 Urumqi Urban Transport                        10000       0 00                  0 00    0 00    71 22       25 87       0 00
PO47345     2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL               10550       0 00                  0 00    0 00   102 05        -3 45      0 00
PO42109     2000 CH-BEIJiNG ENVIRONMENT /I                     349 00      0 00                 25 00    0 00   352 30       11674       0 00
PO56424     2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                          320 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00   304 94       55 34       0 00
P045264     2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                           93 50      0 00                  0 00    0 00    47 02       23 67       0 00
PO45910     2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    15000       0 00                  0 00    0 00    140 03      28 28       0 00
PO49436     2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                200 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00    188 33      27 23       0 00
PO64730     2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project            210 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00    174 64      87 64       0 00
PO58843     2000 Guangxi Highway                               200 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00    152 68      35 18       0 00
P058844     2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                            15000        0 00                 0 00    0 00    11833       23 33       0 00
PO46051     1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC REFORM                          20 00      50 00                 0 00    0 00    31 11       29 39       0 00
PO38121     1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                    0 00       0 00                35 00    0 00    26 73        15 66      0 00
PO46564     1999 Gansu &Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction        60 00     10000                  0 00    0 00    94 88        39 35      -0 12
PO41268     1999 Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                          350 00       0 00                 0 00    0 00    181 48       70 23      0 00
PO43933     1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                  150 00       2 00                 0 00    0 00    97 66        39 53       6 83
P042299     1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                             10 00      35 00                 0 00    0 00    39 17        -4 46       0 00
PO41890     1999 Liaoning Urban Transport                      15000        0 00                 0 00    0 00    74 15        53 95       0 00
P036953     1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                   1000       50 00                 0 00    0 00    42 73        1260        0 00
PO51856     1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                27 40       5 60                 0 00    0 00    21 29        20 79       0 00
PO51888      1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                          80 00      20 00                 0 00     0 00    60 47       29 85       0 00
P058308      1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                          0 00       5 00                 0 00    0 00      2 53        2 65       0 00
PO56216      1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                             100 00      50 00                 0 00     0 00    79 95       53 51       0 00
PO57352      1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                      16 00      30 00                 0 00     0 00    31 04       14 19      -2 38
PO46829      1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                 10000        0 00                 0 00     0 00    12 87       92 37       0 00
PO60270      1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                        0 00       5 00                 0 00    0 00      3 97        5 76       1 67
PO49665      1999 ANNING VALLEY AG DEV                          90 00      30 00                 0 00     0 00    49 77       11 40       0 00
P050036      1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                         200 00       0 00                 0 00    0 00     96 60       34 45       0 00
PO51705      1999 Fujian I1 Highway                            200 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   12849        91 99       0 00
PO03653      1999 Container Transport                           71 00       0 00                 0 00     3 13    21 95       24 83       0 00
PO03566      1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                        0 00      85 00                 0 00     0 00    39 81       21 95       0 00
 PO03606     1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                           63 00       0 00                22 00     0 00    46 97       14 13       0 00
 PO03614     1998 Guangzhou City Transport                     200 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   129 54      126 25       0 00
 PO03619     1998 2nd Inland Waterways                         12300        0 00                 0 00     0 00    76 42       62 42       0 00
 PO51736     1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                          250 00       0 00                 0 00    86 00    73 31      159 31       3 21
 P045788     1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                           230 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   71 54        38 74      0 00
 PO49700     1998 IAIL-2                                       300 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00    31 51        122       0 00
 P046563     1998 TARlM BASIN il                                90 00      60 00                 0 00    2 67    67 53        53 41      0 00
 PO46952     1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                         10000      100 00                 0 00     0 00   74 23       -38 36     45 64
 PO40185     1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                       95 00       0 00                 0 00    0 00    29 69       24 14       0 00
 PO35698     1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                         300 00       0 00                 0 00   100 00   17367      237 67      25 61
 PO36414     1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                  72 00      20 00                 0 00    0 00    78 15       51 73        1 79




                                                                 - 75 -

                                                                                                                   Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                               Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  t Y   Purpose
                  Purpose                                 IBRD          IDA                    GEF   Cancel. Undisb.
                                                                                                                isb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P036949     1998 Nat Hwy3-Hubei                             250 00        0 00                 0 00     0 00   47 29       -0 21      0 00
PO03539     1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV           100 00       0 00                 0 00     2 31   49 48       34 29      0 00
P037859     1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                          0 00       0 00                22 00     0 00    5 07       21 79       0 00
PO03591     1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                        150 00       0 00                 0 00    80 91    8 45       83 54       2 80
PO38988     1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                            120 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   21 46       20 11       0 00
PO03637     1997 CN-NATIONAL RURAL WATER Ill                   0 00      70 00                 0 00     0 00    9 65       10 02       8 84
PO03635     1997 CN-VOC ED REFORMPROJ                         1000       20 00                 0 00     0 00    0 20        133        0 00
P003590     1997 QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION            30 00      15000                 0 00     0 00   53 29       56 72       0 00
P035693     1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND                            0 00       0 00                32 80     0 00    9 18       32 81       0 00
PO36405     1997 WANJlAZHAl WATER TRA                        400 00       0 00                 0 00    75 00   50 80      124 30      -4 20
P044485     1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                         400 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00  18207       110 12      26 61
P036952     1997 CN-BASIC ED IV                                0 00      85 00                 0 00     0 00    2 26        5 04       0 00
PO03650     1997 TUOKETUO POWERilNNER                        400 00       0 00                 0 00   102 50   68 54      147 90     -1570
PO34081     1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI II                         430 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   92 63      123 49     120 19
P003654     1997 Nat Hwy2iHunan-Guangdong                    400 00       0 00                 0 00     0 00   99 72       99 72       0 00
PO03643     1997 Xinliang Hwy II                             300 00       0 00                 0 00    60 00   11 71       71 71       6 71
P003649     1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                          0 00      10000                  0 00    0 00    6 57       15 89       0 00
P003602     1996 C N - H U E URBAN ENVIRONMENT               125 00       25 00                 0 00   28 32   52 04       82 49      41 35
PO34618     1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV                          10 00       20 00                 0 00    0 00    6 17        8 40       0 00
PO03599     1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT               12500        25 00                 0 00    0 00   82 43       77 65      50 09
P003594     1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                          60 00       90 00                 0 00    0 00   91 99       65 52       0 00
PO03589     1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                 0 00      10000                  0 00    0 00   1531        25 40       0 00
PO03646     1996 CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                     17000         0 00                 0 00  16482     2 72      167 54       2 72
P003648     1996 CN-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                     250 00        0 00                 0 00    0 00   91 13       91 13      10 14
PO40513     1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                          21000         0 00                 0 00    0 00   60 63       60 63       5 64
P003638     1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER                          80 00       20 00                 0 00    9 40   15 03       25 48       0 00
PO36947     1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                        270 00        0 00                 0 00   95 00   12 17      107 17       0 95
PO03571     1995 RAILWAYS VI1                                400 00        0 00                 0 00  109 00   73 10      181 10      30 12
PO03585     1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                         175 00        0 00                 0 00    0 00   41 52       41 52       0 00
PO03596     1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                         10000       11000                  0 00    0 00    2 67        5 20       5 20
P003647     1995 China Economic Law Reform-LEGEA               0 00       1000                  0 00    0 00    4 20        4 86       0 00
PO03639     1995 SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT          47 50      200 00                 0 00    0 00   11 87       36 43      36 43
PO03642     1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                         400 00        0 00                 0 00    0 00   58 95       64 57       0 00
PO03603      1995 CN-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF        275 00       75 00                 0 00   20 00  10040       11888       65 85
PO03598      1995 CN-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                    11000         0 00                 0 00    0 00   12 25       1225        8 18
P003600      1995 CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                  200 00        0 00                 0 00    3 02   13 81       16 83       0 00
PO03641      1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                       350 00        0 00                 0 00   11 50    3 32       14 82       2 17
PO03586      1994 CN-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT            16000         0 00                 0 00    0 00   24 94       24 94      12 94
PO03540      1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                0 00      15000                  0 00    000     1 83        0 03       0 00
 P003644     1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                      0 00      11000                  0 00    0 00    2 04        0 15      -1 51
 PO03595     1994 RED SOILS II AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT        0 00      15000                  0 00    0 00    5 85        119        116
 PO03609     1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION             255 00        0 00               1000      0 00   51 71       51 71       0 00
 P003626     1994 Fujian Prov Highway                        140 00        0 00                 0 00   18 11   12 29       30 40      30 38
 P003404     1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV CON                          0 00        0 00               10 00     0 00    0 02        0 78       0 00
 PO03473     1993 CN-ZHEJIANG MULTlClTlES DEVELOPMENT          0 00      11000                  0 00    0 00    1 06        1 25      -3 01
 PO03592     1993 REF INST'L & PREINV                          0 00       50 00                 0 00    0 00    2 65        3 14       2 72
 PO03627     1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                       325 00      16500                  0 00    0 00   29 63       30 46      20 46
 P003632     1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                       0 00      50 00                 0 00    0 00    3 93        4 63       4 31

                                                    Total  14099 80     2532 60             156 80    971 68  667327     417857     55379




                                                               - 76 -

                                            CHINA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                           UllU
                                        Jun 30 2002
                                                -
                                      InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                       Committed                       Disbursed
                                                     IFC                             IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997           Orient Finance                   9.52    0.00     0.00   11.90   9.52   0.00    0.00  11.90
1997/00        PTPHoldings                      0.00    0.03     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.03    0.00   0.00
1997           PTF' Hubei                      11.72    0.00     0.00   23.29   11.72  0.00    0.00  23.29
1996           PacificPorts                     0.00    2.54     0.00    0.00   0.00   2.54    0.00   0.00
2001           Peak Pacific                     0.00    0.00     25.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           RabobankSHFC                     0.90    0.00     0.00    0.90   0.90   0.00    0.00   0.90
2000           SSIF                             0.00    6.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.45    0.00   0.00
1998           Shanghai Krupp                  30.00    0.00     0.00   68.80   19.74  0.00    0.00  45.26
1999           Shanxi                          17.87    0.00     0.00    0.00   15.32  0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           ShenzhenPCCP                     3.76    0.99     0.00    0.00   3.76   0.99    0.00   0.00
2001           Sino-Forest                     25.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   20.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1995           SuzhouPVC                        0.00    2.48      0.00   0.00   0.00   2.48    0.00   0.00
1998           WIT                              5.00    0.00      0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           Wanjie Hospital                 15.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   15.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1996           WeihaiWeidongri                  1.92    0.00      0.00   0.00    1.92  0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           Yantai Cement                   11.13    1.95      0.00   0.00   11.13   1.95   0.00   0.00
1998           Zhen Jing                        0.00    2.00      0.00   0.00    0.00  2.00    0.00   0.00
2002           Advantage                        0.00    0.25      0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1999/00/02     Bank of Shanghai                 0.00   24.67      0.00   0.00    0.00  24.67   0.00   0.00
1996           Beijing Hormel                   2.50    0.50      0.00    1.65   2.50  0.50    0.00   1.65
1998/00        CIG HoldingsPLC                  0.00    3.00      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2002           CPEF                             0.00   20.00      0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1996           Caltex Ocean                    18.53    0.00      0.00  28.64   18.53   0.00    0.00 28.64
1998           ChengduHuarong                   7.40    3.20      0.00   8.60    3.70   3.20    0.00  4.30
1998           Chengxin-IBCA                    0.00    0.36      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.36    0.00  0.00
1987/92/94     China Bicycles                   0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1994           China Walden Mgt                 0.00    0.01      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.01    0.00  0.00
1994           China Walden Ven                 0.00    0.21      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.21    0.00  0.00
1994           Dalian Glass                     0.00    2.40      0.00   0.00    0.00   2.40    0.00  0.00
1999           Dujiangyan                      25.59    0.00      0.00  30.00   16.11   0.00    0.00 18.89
1995           Dupont Suzhou                   12.46    4.15      0.00  10.40   12.46   4.15    0.00 10.40
1994           Dynamic Fund                     0.00    9.75      0.00   0.00    0.00   8.09    0.00  0.00
1999           Hansom                           0.00    16.10     0.00   0.00    0.00  16.10    0.00  0.00
2002           Huarong AMC                     31.50    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2002           IEC                             20.00    0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1996           Jingyang                        32.50    0.00      0.00  69.23   32.50   0.00    0.00 69.23
1998           LeshanScana                      6.10     1.35     0.00   0.00    4.50   1.35    0.00  0.00
2001           MaanshanCarbon                   9.00     2.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2002           NCCB                             0.00    26.58     0.00   0.00    0.00  26.46    0.00  0.00
1996           Nanjing K u d o                  6.82     3.81     0.00  19.38    6.82   3.81    0.00 19.38
2001           New China Life                   0.00    30.70     0.00   0.00    0.00  23.32    0.00  0.00
1995           Newbridge Inv.                   0.00     1.95     0.00   0.00    0.00   1.95    0.00  0.00
                      Total Portfolio:        304.22  166.98     25.00  277.79  206.13 127.02   0.00 233.84



                                                    Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic




                                              - 77 -

2002    Darong                        10.00  0.00   1s o   8.00
2002    NaradaBattery
v                                     6.60   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002    Zhong Chen                    25.00  0.00   0.00
                                                    1s o   32.00
                                                           0.00
2002    Sino Mining                   5.00   0.00   0.00   5.00
2002    ShuangDeng                    12.50  0.00   2.80   0.00
2002    KHIT                           0.00  0.00   3.00   0.00
2002    SML                            0.00  0.00   6.00   0.00
1996    Jingyang                       4.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
1998    PTP Hubei BLINC                0.00  0.00   0.00    1.50
2000    CIGZhapu                       6.00  5.00   0.00   0.00
2000    Meijing                        9.00  0.00   0.00    7.30
2000    CIMIC Tile                    15.00  5.00   0.00   15.00
2001    DaningCoal                     0.00  0.00   2.00   15.00
2001    AACI                           0.00  0.00   2.00   0.00
2001    Minsheng                       0.00  23.50  0.00   0.00
2002    HuarongAMC                    15.00  0.00   3.00   0.00
2002    IEC                            0.00  5.00   0.00   0.00

        Total PendingCommitment:     108.10  52.00  21.80  83.80




                                   - 78 -

                                                      Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                  CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project
                                                                                       East      Lower-
POVERW and SOCIAL                                                                    Asia &     middle-
                                                                      China          Pacific    income            Development diamond'
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                                       1,271.9           1,826      2,164                            Life expectancy  -
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      890             900        1,240
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                     1,129.3           1,649      2,677

Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                                  I                        T
Population(%)                                                            0.9             1.1         1 .o
Laborforce ("A)                                                          1.o             1.3         1.2          GNi                                          Gross
                                                                                                                                                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                             capita                                   enrollment
PovertyPA of populationbelownationalpovertyline)                           5            . ..
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                                    38              37          46
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                            71              69          69                                  1
infant mortality (per 1,000 livebirths)                                   32              36          33
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                                    10             12          11                 Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source ("A of population)                       75             74          80
IlliteracyPA of populationage 1%)                                          15             14          15
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                      107             107         107                       China
    Male                                                                 106             106         107                       Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                               109             108         107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                            1981        1991            2000       2001
GDP (US$billions)                                           228.3      402.6         1,077.5     1,150.1
GrossdomesticinvestmenVGDP                                   32.5        34.8           36.1        37.9
Exports of goods and servicedGDP                               8.6       19.4           25.9        25.8         1                      Trade
GrossdomesticsavingdGDP                                      32.9        38.1           38.8        40.3
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                    32.8        38.5           38.0         39.4                                 1
Current accountbalanceiGDP                                     0.4        3.8             1.9         1.5
 interest payments/GDP                                         0.2        0.7            0.6          0.6         Domestic
                                                                                                                                  ~                 + Investment
TotaldebVGDP                                                   2.5       15.0            13.9        14.8
Total debt servicelexports                                     6.9       10.1            7.4          6.8
 Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                                 12.5        11.7        I                        1

 Presentvalue of debffexports                                                           46.0         43.5        1                   Indebtedness
                                            1981-91 1991-01             2000            2001     2001-05         I
 (average annualgrowth)
 GDP                                             10.0          9.7         8.0            7.3         6.9                   a   China
 GDP per capita                                   8.4          8.6         7.1            6.6         6.1                       Lower-middle-incomegroup
 Exportsof goods and services                    12 1          8 3       306              5n
                                                                                          - -         7 7

 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                             1981       1991            2000        2001
 (% of GDP)                                                                                                        Growth of investmentand GDP(Ob)

 Agriculture                                                  31.8       24.5            15.9        15.2
 industry                                                     46.4       42.1            50.9        51.1
     Manufacturing                                            38.5       32.7            34.5        35.4                                                         ' I
 Services                                                     21.8       33.4            33.2        33.6
  Privateconsumption                                                                                                        96       97    98        99      00   01
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                                14.5       13.1            13.1        13.7
  Importsof goods and services                                 8.2       16.1            23.2        23.4                               GDI        - O " G D P


                                                          1981-91 1991-01               2000        2001
  (average annualgrowth)                                                                                           Growth of exports and imports(Ob)

  Agriculture                                                  5.2         4.0            2.4         2.8        L O T

  Industry                                                    11.4       12.6             9.6         8.7
     Manufacturing                                             11.1      11.6             9.1         9.0
  Services                                                     12.6        8.7            7.8         7.4
  Privateconsumption                                            8.3        8.6            8.7         6.2
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                                  9.9        8.5           12.2        11.5
  Gross domesticinvestment                                     10.4      10.3             4.2        12.8        I              ' *   Exports      *Imports
  ImDortSof aoods and sewices                                   9.6        6.4           24.5        10.8

  Note' 2001 data are preliminary estimates
  'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                    - 79  -

                                                                                                                        China

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           +OQ4          -
Domestic prices
ph change)
Consumer prices                            25.7       3.4      0.4     0.7
Implicit GDP defiator                        2.3      6.7      0.9     0.0
Government finance
ph of GDP. includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                            24.2     16.9     15.3     17.2
Current budget balance                         ..     2.3      0.6      1.o
Overall surpius/deficit                      0.8     -1.1     -3.6     -3.2

                                                                                                                             I
TRADE
                                           1981     1991     2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       22,007   71,843 249,210  266,155    300,000
  Food                                     2,924   7,226   12,282   12,780
  Fuel                                    5,228    4,754    7,851    8,420
  Manufactures                            11,759   55,698 223,752  239,800    200 000

Total imports (cif)                       22,015   63,791 225,097  243,610
  Food                                     3,622   2,799    4,758    4,980    100000
  Fuel and energy                             83   2,113   20,637   17,490
                                                                                                                             I
  Capital goods                            5,866   19,601  91,934  107,040          0

Exportprice index (1995=700)                  16       51      67       65             95    95   97    95    99     00    01

import price index (1995=100)                 13       49      75       73                      Expods          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    118      103      90       90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1981     1991     2000    2001
 (US$ millions)                                                                Current account balanceto GDP (%)
 Exportsof goods and services             24,410   78,909 279,561  299,410
 imports of goods and services            23,426   65,339 250,688  271,324    I5T
 Resourcebalance                             984   13,570  28,873   28,086
 Net income                                 -124      840  -14,666 -19,173
 Net current transfers                         ..     830   6,311    8,492
 Current account balance                     860   15,240  20,519   17,405
 Financingitems (net)                          ..  -4,149   -9,971  29,920
 Changes in net reserves                       ,. -11,091  -10,548 -47,325    I    95    95    97    98     99     00     01
 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (US$millions)          .. 48,154 171,753  219,970
 Conversion rate (DEC, iocai/US$)            2.1      5.4      8.3      8.3

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1981     1991     2000    2001
 fUS$ millions)                                                               I Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt ouistanding and disbursed      5,798   60,259  149,800 170,000
   IBRD                                         0   3,494   11,118  11,479
   IDA                                         0    3,672    8,771   8,550    I          G.17,662    A: 11,479
                                                                                                      L 8.550 B
 Total debt service                        1,744    8,305   21,728  20,900
   iBRD                                         0     357    1,291   1,716
   IDA                                          0      23      131     164                                          D 23,217

 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Official grants                            19      406      147
   Official creditors                        506    2,044    1,927
   Private creditors                          89    2,493   -2,302                                                  I 27,510
   Foreign direct investment                    0   4,366   42,096  47,052
   Portfolio equity                             0     565    7,814   2,404
 World Bank program
   Commitments                               196    2,622    1,536   1,230    'A.IBRD                          E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                0   1,280    1,907   1,947      B IDA
                                                                                 -        D -Othermultilateral F Private
   Principal repayments                         0     131      644     999      C-IMF                          G Short-term
                                                                                                                 .--
   Net flows                                    0   1,149    1,263     948
   Interestpayments                             0     250      778     881
   Net transfers                                0     899      485      67




                                                          - 80 -

                Additional Annex 11: Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy
                      CHINA: Basic Educationin Western Areas Project


                                   EthnicMinorities EducationStrategy
                                                      of
                        Basic Education inWestern Areas Project (Summary)

                                       MINISTRY OF EDUCATION

                                              I--Introduction

Projectgoals and Targetbeneficiaries

The objective of this project i s to improve access to and completion of affordable, and quality basic
educationfor poor children inSichuan, Gansu, Yunnan Provinces, Ningxia Huiand Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Regions. This project will support and accelerate the achievement of the Chinese
Government's Nine-Year Compulsory Education (NYCE) goals and will benefit 38 million people in 112
project counties of five project provinces, among which 6,520,000 are ethnic minorities, accounting for
17.15 percent of the total population.

                                   II LegalandInstitutionalFramework
                                      -
OverarchingFramework

China's legal framework for the protection and development of officially designated minority
nationalities consists of:


0       The Constitution of the People's Republic of China
0       Law on Autonomy in Minority Nationality Regions
0       Administration Regulationin Minority NationalityTownships
0       Law on Village Committee Organization

The Constitution of the People's Republic of China, provides that all minorities inthe People's Republic
of China are equal and that the State supports all minority nationalities in their economic and cultural
development according to their needs and characteristics.

The Law on Autonomy inMinority Nationality Regions stipulates that all minority nationalities have the
freedom to use and develop their own oral and written language, maintain or reformtheir traditions and
customs and provides for the establishment of minority nationality autonomous areas includingautonomy
inmanagement of localaffairs inscience, education and culture.

The Administration Regulation in Minority Nationality Townships stipulates that the township
autonomous administration, in consideration of local needs and minority nationality characteristics,
govern accordingrelevant laws and regulations. The Law on Village Committee Organization also used
stipulations regarding the organization of villager committees in minority nationality villages.




                                                     -81 -

                      III-RelevantExistingPrograms TargetingEthnicMinorities
                                                     .   .


Govemment policy on minority education can be seen in a number of systemic foci:

        expanding access through: construction, expansion and renovation of township/village schools,
        boarding schools, teaching points and multi-grade schools;
        mandating universal 6-year education for all minority regions or an elementary graduate per
        household as a minimumrequirement for remote and scattered rural inhabitation;
        development of a Center Elementary School for every township in each minority county and a
        Center Secondary School and Literacy and Vocational Training Center for each minority county;

        improvingthe relevance and cost-effectiveness of educational inputsby improving teacher
        selection and preparation in pedagogy, bilingual education, curriculumrevision and development
        of bilingual materials for minorities; and
        increasing the resource baseby preferential policies of increased national and provincialresource
         allocation targeted at these poor minority regions through specific programs to reduce repetition
         and drop-out rates.

Proiect Provinces:

The provision and management of compulsory education in China undertakes the practice that the local
authorities take the responsibility, with suitable division of labor at different levels. (The five provinces
and autonomous regions have detailed education policies which can be found in the provincialProject
Implementation Plans (PIPS)and the full version of the Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy which i s in
project files)

                   IV TheMain Issues of Basic Educationin Ethnic Minority Areas
                       -
Project Social Assessment and Economic Analysis Activities

The project covers 112 counties in five provinces and regions. The stakeholders of the project will reach
about 38 million, and the minority population i s 6.52 million, or 17.15 percent of the total population.
The data show that there are 22 minorities within the 98 counties inthe 5 project provinces and regions
including Huiminority in Ningxia, Hui and Tibetan minorities in Gansu, Hui, Tibetan, Yi, Qiang, Lisu,
Miao, Dai, Buyi minorities in Sichuan, Yi, Zhuang, Miao, Yao, Dong, Mulao, Maonan, Shui, Gelao
minorities in Guangxi, Tibetan, Yi, Miao, Lisu,Dai, Buyi, Zhuang, Bai, Hani, Jinuo, Jingbo, Nasi, Wa,
Lahu minorities in Yunnan. Large concentrations of minority peoples in the project are in Ningxia (1.9
million Huinationality), Guangxi (2.2 million Zhuang nationality) and Yunnan (0.9 million Yi
nationality).

Duringthe preparation period, financial and economic analysis and social assessments were conducted in
the five project provinces and regions in order to guaranteethe stakeholders of project-coveredpoor and
ethnic minority areas to widely participate in the project design and make the project proposal to be in
line with the reality of the covered areas. Briefly, the results are as follows;

The Financial and Economic Analvsis. Data for the economic and financial analysis was gathered from
more than 2700 individuals, 560 of whom were students. Approximately 56 percent of the respondents
 inthe household surveys were ethnic minorities. 4200 individuals were surveyed and consulted for


                                                     - 82 -

social assessment and economic and financial investigation and of which, approximately 3000 or 71.4
percent were ethnic minorities.

The Social Assessment Process. Duringthe two stages of social assessment, the project design was
described to and informationwas gathered through interview and questionnaire from county
administrators, school headmasters, teachers, pupils and parents at the primary andjunior secondary
levels and community members in a number of sample villages in two minority counties ineach of the
five participatingproject provinces and regions. Preliminary data indicate that of the more than 1500
people from whom informationwas systematically gathered and whose opinions were analyzed and fed
into the provincialproject design process, 82.5 percent of the interviewees were ethnic minorities.

The social assessment found that enrollment rates of both primary schools andjunior middle schools in
the counties visited by the consultants were much lower and the real dropout rates for both levels much
higher than provincial government statistics. It i s difficult to gauge statistically the magnitude of the
problems of the ethnic minorities in the respect of education because enrollment and completion rates
reportedby the Ministry of Education are not categorized by ethnic nationalities.

The Social assessment found a number of other issues which affected basic education delivery in the
project provinces.

          Tibetan and Yi communities, often found on highmountains where the natural environment and
          living conditions are very harsh, have very low income levels, and cannot easily afford to send
          their children to school;
          Customary practices of different ethnic groups are responsible for dropouts in some cases. For
          instance, some parents think "if financial resources of the family are not enough for both to go to
          school, then boys should go". Such values put girls at a disadvantaged place in terms of
          education;
          The nomadic life and the preference for constant moves of some ethnic groups make it
          impossible for children to study at a set place. This can lead to dropouts;
          Some students drop out of the school becausethey live too far away from their schools.
          Values of parents are also an important factor. As the state no longer allocates college graduates
          jobs, some parents do not think there i s still a needto send their children to school.

 Suggestions which came from the Social Assessment and the Economic and Financial Analysis can be
 listed as follows:

     0     promote the training of ethnic minority teachers, female teachers and duike (temporary) teachers;

           strengthen and adopt effective methods on training of bilingual teachers;
           increase more local content in the textbooks and supplementary materials;
           seek better ways to strengthen the communication and linkages between the schools and the local
           communities;
           seek the best balance between closing teaching points and improving educational quality in rural
           areas; and
           increase the government allocation to student assistance and improve its efficiency.

      Iti s satisfactory that the suggestions of the experts and the design of the project are completely
      consistent. In order to enhance the pertinence and actual effectiveness of the project, however, five
      project provinces have made further updating about the provincial project implementation plans



                                                       - 83 -

    (PIPS)in the light of the suggestions. (See details in the final provincial PIPS.)




Access to Basic EducationServices The vast bulkof China's minority populations live inthe poorest
parts of China. Whether in the mountains areas of western Sichuan or the semi-arid hills of southern
Ningxia, levels of economic development are lower than in Han predominatedareas. Both government
revenues, collected at the township and then sent to the county level, and householdincomes are low and
therefore investment, by the local government or the individual family i s also low. A major reason for
low enrollments among minorities i s the heavy householdburden presented by education costs. This i s
aggravated by the larger families which minority families generally have and include both primary and
secondary school students. Education costs tend to rise geometrically as the pupilmakes the transition
from primary to lower secondary and senior secondary school. The combination of low county level
resources and poverty at the family level, with limitedintergovernmental transfers at the provincialor
national level, have generally left the stock of education inputs (construction, qualified teachers, books
and teaching equipment, etc.) in minority areas at a relatively low level.

Since the majority of people of ethnic minorities are working in agriculture or herding, which i s
labor-intensive, the demand for labor, either at home or on farms i s high. This has several effects on
child schooling:

    0    the opportunity costs of sending a child to school are high, thus there i s a tendency not to enroll,
         or enroll late, to be absent for school, and to drop out;
         children who work longhours on the farm or in the home have less time to study; and pupils are
         more likely tired after work, thus influencingtheir learning quality, either in class or in doing
         home work; and
    0    girls are more likely to bear more responsibility for family welfare than boys, compounding the
         already low demand for girls education among some minority groups (most notably the Hui).
    0    Poverty alleviation,job creation, even direct economic support are important ways to help
         families reduce their dependenceon child labor. But social programs are equally important to
         increase the perception of parents on the importance of education for their children.

 EducationalAttainment of theAdult Population and its Impact on Minority Family Aspirationsfor
 the Educationof Their Children The social assessmentpoints out that the average level of educational
 attainment of the adult population among many ethnic minorities i s much lower than the level of the Han
 population, often within the same village or townships. This i s particularly true for the mothers in
 minority families with high illiteracyrates and very low primary school completion rates. The
 intergenerationaleffects of low levels of parental education are well documented. They include
 susceptibility to poverty which keep children out of school; a weak perceptionby some parents and
 community leaders of the need for education and its relevance; a shortage of role models for children,
 and a less supportive home environment for learning (e.g. a lack of books, shortage of parents able to
 help with homework, etc.)

 A number of provinces have large programs of parental education on the economic and social benefits of
 schooling, the necessity under law of sending children to school, and the types of support that a pupil
 needs in staying in school, doing homework, and completing grade levels.

 Impact of Poverty, Fertility, Health, and Nutritional Levels on Demandfor Education Poverty rates in
 China are highest among ethnic minorities. The impact of poverty on demand for education i s rather well


                                                      - 84 -

documented. Poor households in most cases are unable to meet basic education expenses (particularly
for large families), while at the same time have more needs to keep their children at home to work as

less time at a critical age for learning. Children from poor households are also more likely to fail grades.
Poor health and nutrition are strongly associated with poor economic status of the family. They inhibit
learning, regular class attendance, and thus lead to highdrop-out and low achievement.

Solutions to these problems consist of poverty alleviation programs aimed specifically at areas of ethnic
minorities; more investment (development and education); financial and/or material support programs for
children andor their families; inclusion of material programs in food insecure areas; expanded programs
of fees exemptions and improved design those programs (including funding from government rather than
the school budget); improved and expanded safety nets, and targeted scholarships.

Curriculum China uses the same national curriculumin all parts of the country while allowing for a
certain amount of local content. This local content often consists of stories of local heroes, local
economics and social development and literature. Review of textual material used in the Tibetan
language schools of western Sichuan indicate that there are stories taken from both historical and
 contemporary literature.

 The social assessment also points out that one of the current problems with the delivery of the curriculum
 i s that even in schools where the mediumof instruction i s the local language, the teachers are often
 Mandarin only speakers and therefore the quality of the teaching i s not good. Even with the translation
 of textbooks into minority languages, an option in most of the large minority areas, which have a written
 language, the teacher's inability to teach in the local language is an impediment to good learning.

 Language of Instruction Teachers in minority areas of China often raise the problemof language as
 one of the major limitation to their teaching quality. Non-bilingual teachers have problems
 communicating with their pupils and many children fall behindin their education due to language
 problems.

 School head teachers are keen to have a greater number of localizedteachers in their schools who can
  speak the minority language. So far however the number of bilingual teachers i s small and sometimes
  such teachers have to be sharedbetween schools. Some schools have coped with this by usingbilingual
  teachers for the lower grades or by training Chinese teachers in local languages. Bilingual teachers tend
  to explain lessons simultaneously in minority languages and in Chinese.

  Boarding Schoolsand Other Optionsfor Provision of Servicesin Sparsely Populated Areas The often
  rugged topography of the minority inhabited areas such as the sparsely populatedmountainous regions
  and the badly desiccated pastoral lands severely limit the access to education. Inresponse,provincial
  governments have established boarding schools in these areas.

  The building of these boarding schools i s often associated with the rationalization or closing of the
  distribution of "teaching points" or incomplete primary schools (schools which generally offer grades
  one to three in a multi-grade environment, most likely taught by a single teacher and often with severely
  limitedtraining.) As weak as these teaching points are, they are often the only nearby school in the very
  poorest villages and rural areas. Inthat these are often the areas where the poorest minority families live,
  closing the teaching points and incomplete primary schools, often at the primary level, raises questions of
  cost and distance from home for small children, especially young girls. However, it must be pointed out
  that boarding schools mustprovide good learning environment and adequateprotection to children,



                                                      - a5 -

ensuring their security.

                                             . .    .  ,
A             S V I LLdLL-U     I
                                 lb    g conditions inrnese boarding schools nave been critical, but they
are nevertheless appealing to some local education officials as a means o f achieving the universal
primary education goals of the Government. More consideration needs to be given to alternative means
of organizing schools that would allow children to remain in their homes, for example, multi-grade
schools or alternate year intakes in small schools.

                          V Actionsfor the Ethnic Minority Beneficiariesin the Project
                           -
The project will contribute to reducing poverty and increasing educational outcomes in five provinces
and regions in western China. Expanding basic education for poor minority children will bring
additional opportunities for development and growth. Education provides opportunities for personal and
community empowerment and thus greater participation inthe social, economic development sectors.
Literacy inboth the national language and mother tongue allows for entry into the national economy
while at the same time maintaining links with culture. Learning from the national curriculum which
preserves space for including local materials allows greater participation in economic and civic life while
at the same time taking substance from the minority culture. These guides are imbedded in China's
current policies on minority education and are recognized and supported inthis project.

School Development Planning (SDP), which i s developed by the project schools, w i l l be piloted in
several counties in each province. It supports community participation in the planning and
implementation o f school development plans. Strengthened community participation strategies will be
particularly important in areas where the populations of ethnic monitories will be so small so as to make
i t virtually impossible to design project component directly for these small numbers. This strategy o f
increased participation o f the ethnic groups inthe areas where their populations are small and they are
living in areas where there are other larger numbers of minorities i s particularly important because it will
enable very small national minority groups to have a voice in the government's delivery of educational
services.

The project will support the training of bilingual teachers, especially drawn from minority populations, in
National Minority Institutes and teacher training institutes in Sichuan, Yunnan and Guangxi. This will
be particularly important for the sizable minority groups in the project whose mother tongue i s nothing
Mandarin but Yi, Yao, Zang, and Mia0 ethnic minorities. In addition, the project will enhance the
training of the ethnic minority teachers, female teachers and daike teachers through the explicit preferred
principle.

The project will not directly support student assistance programs. This i s because that the Chinese
Government has carried out many programs and invested a large amount o f money to provide assistance
to students inthe project counties. Assisting poor students i s the responsibility o f the governments at all
levels. These programs are consistent with the project activities and the investment goals. During
preparation i t was agreed that government resources from the national, the provincial and county levels
will be used to finance student assistance programs in all five provinces and regions. Furthermore, MOE
has required all project provinces and regions to strengthen the support to the student assistance.

This strategy of depending on the availability of government resources, some of which are the result of
intergovernmental transfers from the central government, i s a strong indication o f the synergies
developed during project preparation between what the government can and does provide for basic
education inpoor rural areas and what the limited resources of a Bank/DFID loan can provide. In
 addition, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the policies on student assistance implementedby the


                                                     - 86 -

government and then to set up a long-term student assistance system, the Department of Finance of M O E
will conducted the nation-wide research to establish national student assistance system and mechanism
or-3.                                                     Til,  LS-              rhe system will proviae
strong guarantee for the access of poor students to schools and at the same time have profound influences
on realizing the objective of universalizing nine-year compulsory education in China.

The project will directly attempt to deal with other causes of low enrollment and completion rates inpoor
areas. The project will supports Yunnan province to conduct the research on the issues concerning
teachingpoints and boarding schools, exploring other effective education modes which can not only
replace boarding schools but also improve the quality of education. The project will not support the
construction of new boarding primary schools nor will the project funds be used to promote the capacity
of existing boarding schools to compensate for the closure of teaching points. In order to increase the
access of the poor children tojunior middle school, one of the emphasis of the project i s to build and
expand the scale of thejunior middleschools.

Inorder to explore the effective education modes inthe ruralareas and ensure that the children inthe
remote rural areas can gain access to compulsory education, the Department of Finance of MOE will
carry out rural education reformpilot activities in ten project counties of five provinces and regions. At
the same time, the Department of Finance will also conduct the research on the school mapping in rural
and ethnic minority areas in five project provinces and regions or even in a larger area by usingthe grants
from DFID. The research results will provide basis for the reformof schooling modes inrural and ethnic
minority areas and help MOE to formulate the policies on the investment to compulsory education in
these areas.

Based on the findings and recommendations of the social assessmentprocess, this EMES report has
organically combined the activities inthe project design and the activities which will be conducted inthe
implementation period(See details in Annex 1). The first draft of the report has been disclosed inthe
project provinces/regions and all project counties. Furthermore, the table of contents and annex 1
 (Matrix) has been translated into Tibetan and made public in the seven Tibetan concentration counties.

The goals of this strategy are, through the project, to:

         To ensure that project resources are usedto benefit disadvantaged children, includingthe poor,
         ethnic minorities and girls;
    0    To increase the capacity to monitor the educational progress of all children in the project;
         promote wider distribution of material appropriate for minority children; and
    0    To explore a model of rural schoolingthat i s appropriate to the needs of the local population and
         cost-effectiveness of the government to deliver through the pilot activities and national research
         programs of the project.

 Benefits beyond the project area will be realizedto the extent that the project succeeds in exploring a
 model of rural schooling that i s acceptedby the national and provincialministries of education for wider
 application.

           Additional Annex 12 : Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy Matrix
                  CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project

                    Matrix of SpecificActions to be Taken

roject Components hues Identified in        Specific Action                    When                  Implementing
                  .eSocial Assessment                                                               Responsibility
bmponent 1:
iproving School
silities
hool construction iproving access to  i)Poorervillagesand         i)Overallconstruction           oca1education
dupgrading        imary education     townships will be targeted investment plan finalized        ureaus
b-component                           as priority areas for       during project appraisal and
                                      upgrading and construction annualreview of yearly
                                      of schools (expectedto be construction plans inthe
                                      of disproportionate benefit annual plans. Appraisal
                                      to minority children        reviews confirm that provinces
                                      becausethey tend to live in and countieshave usedcriteria
                                      townships and villages      agreed and statedinmission
                                      outside of the county seats.)aidememories of December
                                                                  2001and April 2002 which
                                                                  included: (a) to specifically
                                                                  addressmajor problems in
                                                                  achieving Six Year
                                                                  Compulsory Education
                                                                  (SYCE) as a priority and (b)
                                      F                           recognition should be given to
                                        ncluded in Current        the extra challenges some
                                        roject Design             areas may face inproviding
                                                                  educationfor minorities (e.g.
                                                                  Icost,remoteness, etc.).
                  nprovingaccess to
                          -           IInfrastructureinvestment IInfrastructureinvestmentwill     .oca1education
                  inior secondary     will take place injunior     take place injunior secondary ureaus
                  iucation            secondaryschools in          schools inminority areas,
                                      minority areas, including    including construction of new
                                      construction of new schoolsschools inminority counties
                                       inminority countieswith     with no lower secondary
                                      no lower secondary          provision.
                                      provision.

                                      Included in Current          Included in Current Project
                                      Project Design               Design
                  'rimary school close No decrease within project Reflected in the project design ,oca1education
                  Iminoritychildren    townships of schools withinproposal.                       ureaus
                                       2.5 kmdistancefrom home
                                       or 20 minuteswalk.
                                       (Yunnan Province has a
                                       provincial limitof 3.0 km
                                       distance fromhome.) I t ha:
                                       beenagreed that project
                                       funds will not be used for
                                       new boarding schools at thc
                                       primary level and that



                                                  - 88 -

                    s. In areas where a
                   rd 6-class model

                  e, alternatives will be




                                          OR by project effectiveness    [OE andprovincial
                                                                         iucation departments
                DFIDgrant will support
                national level school




                        d andrationalize(


                                          urther discussion on study     ocal, Provincial and
                                          uring appraisal. TOR for       rational education
                                          tudy to be agreed with MOE     uthorities.
                                          efore project effectiveness.


                    anism. This research


                       ion. MOE has




                rovided in annual reports




(quipmentand                              'rovincial equipment and       ,oca1education
laterials                                 naterials standards specified i ureaus



                          - 89 -

b-component    equipmentinminority schools coveredby the                final provincial
               primary andjunior         project should be consistentimplementationplans
               secondary schools          withMOF, or prnv"l  . .
                                          standardcriteria (for all
                                          level of schools).



                                                                                                        Local andprovincial
                                                                                                        ducationauthorities

                 idjunior secondary minority girls andboys.
                 :hook                    During the projectperiod,
                                          the MOEDepartment of
                                          Minority Education will
                                          continue their development
                                          of minority education texts
                                          to correspondto new
                                          national curriculum.
                                          Publicationand distributior
                                           of the new texts will be the
                                          responsibility of the
                                          Provinces.

                                           Included in Currenl
                                           Project Design               b
                                                                        I1i.a) Identificationof         ) Provincialeducatioi

                                           ii)Promotewider               supplementaryreading I         uthorities with China

                                           distribution of materials      rovided endof year on         Jxperts Panel

                                           appropriate for minority      ii.b) Provincial-level pl;
                                           children. MOE plans that supplementary material;
                                           ineachprovince two
                                           countieswill be selectedto :hina ExpertsPanel by
                                                                           reparedin conjunction

                                           conduct Comprehensive         fid-term review;
                                           ReformPilot Activities and                                   ii)MOEwithLocal
                                           inthese counties, if          ii.c) Pilot activities to bc   ducation authorities
                                           appropriate, the education conductedafter project
                                            authorities will develop     effectiveness.
                                            locally relevant material for




Component 2:
Strengthening
 anagement and   +--I-                      the localcontentpart of the
                                            curriculum

                                              uring Implementation




                       ) Minority community                               i)Thepilotactivitiesto        ) provincial and
Planning               iarticipation in                                                                 ounty authorities
Sub-component          mproving access to
                       irimary education.




                                                       - 90 -

                                       problems and promote its
                                       development. School
                                       Development planning
                                       facilitates the involvement
                                       of all members of the
                                       community including the
                                       poorest, bothnon-minority
                                       and minority parents,
                                       women, and children who
                                       are given a say in decision
                   Lack of family and  making.                     ii)Methodsdescribedinfinal     ) County Education
                                                                              implementation     ureaus
                 irticipation has had a                             lans.
                 :gative impact on       roject Design
                 irolment and
                  op-out rate in
                  hook
                                          School Development
                                         lanning.

                                       During Implementation



Ionitoring        Improvingcapacity i)Monitoringindicators         i)collectedaspartofoverall     lational, provincial
ib-component      Imonitor and          have been agreed with the project indicators (baseline,   nd county offices
                 Jaluate                M O E and include boys,    mid-term and completion)
                                        girls and minorities. (see
                                        PADAnnex One and
                                        NationalPIP for items
                                        agreed.)

                                        ii)ImpactAssessment                                       .esearchTeam with

                                        Strategy fundedby DFID                                    ational and provincial

                                        grant is to assess project   art DFID-funded study to     uthorities
                                        impact and then strengthen
                                        government officials'
                                        capacity to undertake        roject
                                        monitoring and evaluation.

                                        During Implementation
nstitutional                            Strengthen the capacity of Training for county-level      rational and provincia
Ievelopment                             local departments o f      education bureau chiefs and    ducation authorities
ub-component                            education to implement     overseas study tour "Strategy
                                        education policies which   and Planningfor Educational
                                        include minority education Developments" (Carried out
                                        policies. Training module during implementation)
                                        implemented through
                                        national level training
                                        activities.

                                        During Implementation
Ihinese Experts   issure adequate       Chinese Experts Panel to   Final National implementatioi  Iinistry of Education,
'anel (CEP)       ttention to minority  include experts in minority plan to describe CEP          `oreignInvestment an(



                                                    -91 -

b-component        education issues      and gender issues in                           TOR by         IanOffice
                                         education.                    roject appraisal.

                                         During Implementation
mponent 3:
Sategies to Improve
tality of Teaching
d Learning
acher training     i)poorqualityand      i)Promotetheincrease          i.a)Plansfortrainingof          rovincial education
b-component        limitedcoverage o f                                          (including duike       ithorities
                   bilingual teachers in                                         have been set out in
                   primaryschools.                                      rovincial implementation
                                                                        lans.


                                         ii)Promoteincreased
                   ii)lowenrollmentof    training for female minority e prepared for annual reports
                   minority girls in     teacher inprimary and         and mid-termreview.
                   primaryandjunior      junior secondary schools.     b
                                                                       i.b)Provincial-leveltargetsto



                   secondary schools.
                                         Included in Current
                                         Project Design

                    iii)poorqualityof    iii)Improvequalityof
                    temporary (duike)     daike teachers through
                    teachers inprimary    training programs.
                    schools.                                           I
                                          Included in Current
                                          Project Design               ,v) TOR for Chinese Experts     :hinese Experts Panel
                                                                                                       EEP) and Provincial
                                          iv) oftraining
                                              Quality                    anel will include this task.  uthorities
                                          programs to be assessed
                                          and improved.
                    I

                                          Included in Current
                    I                     kroject Design
esearch for         !Lack of resources to hesearchfor Education        (Activitiesfor the use of DFID Linistryof Education.
ducation Reform      do adequate research Reform activity will, with   grant support were agreed       Iepartment of Financc
                     on local minority    DFIDgrant support,           during appraisal and TORSfoi lfficials and national
                     issues.              finance research in areas    student assistance and school   ndprovincial researc
                                           which havebeen identified mapping will be reviewed and      inits
                                           during the consultation     agreed by project effectivenes
                                           process to be of priority in
                                           the project minority
                                           counties. This include (a)
                                           student assistance
                                           mechanism (better targetin
                                           and more efficient
                                           delivery), and (b) school
                                           mapping.

                                           Included in Current
                                           Project Design
                                                                                 with project launch   dinistry ofEducation
                                           Rural Education Reform      Idarting                        Iepartment of Financi


                                                      - 92 -

                                   fficials and national
                                   ndprovincial research
                                   m9


county) will carry out
comprehensive reform

implementation. These
activity will try to find
appropriate and effective
ways to improve delivery
of education services in
    a1areas. Pilot activities
       decided inthe first si:
      hs after project launcf
        les of pilot activities
    y include such areas as
efforts to increase girls'
enrollment and completion
o f primary andjunior

development and use of
local content of curricula,
and development and use o
teaching materials in
minority languages.




            - 93 -


