Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7194-CHA
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(
Basic Education in Western Areas Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 11, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7194-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
(B) 
The Borrower, the United Kingdom Department for International 
Development (DFID), and the Bank have entered into an arrangement of even date 
herewith (Tripartite Arrangement) under which DFID has: agreed to make a grant to the 
Borrower in an amount not exceeding thirty-four million four hundred thousand Dollars 
($34,400,000) (DFID Grant) to assist the Borrower in reducing the cost of the Loan; 
appointed the Bank as administrator (Administrator) of the DFID Grant; and agreed to 
transfer the proceeds of the DFID Grant to the Administrator from time to time and in 
accordance with the provisions of the said arrangement, which proceeds are to be used to 
prepay part of the principal amount of the Loan, on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said arrangement, and the Borrower has confirmed its concurrence with the Loan 
prepayment arrangements set forth therein;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (General 
Conditions), with the modifications set forth below, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)  Section 5.02 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:  
“Section 5.02. (a) Upon the Borrower’s request and on such terms and 
conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, the 
Bank may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or 
cancellation by the Bank or the Borrower. 
 
(b) The terms and conditions referred to in Section 5.02(a) shall include that the 
Bank will enter into a special commitment provided that: (i) the amount for 
which the special commitment is being requested has been included in the 
First Projected Disbursement or the Subsequent Projected Disbursement for 
the Relevant Six-Month Period (as such terms are defined in the Loan 
Agreement), as the case may be; and (ii) the amount of monies in TF Number 
TF052350
 
(as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement) is not less than 
the amount of the First DFID Deposit or the Subsequent DFID Deposit for 
the Relevant Six-
month Period, as the case may be.” 
 
(b) Section 3.05 (a) of the General Conditions is modified hereby by adding a 
new subparagraph (iii) therein to read as follows: 
“or (iii) a portion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions set forth in Schedule 3, Amortization Schedule, to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Province, an 
amount of the Loan proceeds allocated by the Borrower to said Project Province pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 5 of this Agreement and to be utilized by 
said Project Province for purposes of carrying out its Education Program.  
(b) 
“Category” means a category of item set forth in table 1 in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“CEP” means the Chinese Experts Panel, to be established under 
Part B.2 of the Project and the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(d) 
“Education Program” means a program to be carried out under Parts A, 
B.1 and/or C of the Project, which satisfies the requirements set forth or referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and which is to be carried out by a Project 
Province utilizing the proceeds of its Allocated Amount; and “Education Programs” 
means, collectively,  all such programs. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy” means the Ethnic Minorities 
Education Strategy dated July 17, 2003, adopted by each Project Province, providing 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the informed involvement of ethnic minorities, 
through a process of informed consultation, in the design and implementation of their 
Respective Part of the Project in locations in which such people reside or which they use 
for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and implementing measures to provide benefits 
which are socially and culturally acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset 
adverse impacts of said implementation, as such strategy may be amended from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(f) 
“First DFID Deposit” means the amount of the first deposit of DFID 
Grant proceeds determined in accordance with Section 2.01(c) of the Tripartite 
Arrangement and to be deposited into TF052350 pursuant to said Section 2.01(c). 
(g) 
“First Projected Disbursement” means the amount of the first projected 
disbursement determined in accordance with Section 2.01(b) of the Tripartite 
Arrangement. 
(h) 
“Gansu” means the Province of Gansu, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“Guangxi” means the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and any 
successor thereto.  
(j) 
“Implementation Agreement” means, in respect of each Project Province, 
the agreement entered into between the Borrower and said Project Province in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2(d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Annex 
thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank.  
(k) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, and any successor 
thereto. 
(l) 
“Ningxia” means the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, and any 
successor thereto. 
(m) 
“Project Counties” means, collectively, the counties that will carry out 
the Education Program, or part thereof, within any of the Project Provinces; and a 
“Project County” means any of the Project Counties. 
(n) 
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, the Borrower’s: (i) Provinces of 
Gansu, Sichuan and Yunnan; and (ii) Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Ningxia 
Hui Autonomous Region, and any successor thereto; and “Project Province” means any 
of the Project Provinces. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(o) 
“Relevant Six-Month Period” means the six-month period: (i) used to 
estimate the aggregate amount of the Loan to be disbursed on account of the Project 
(including deposit into and replenishments of the Special Account, direct payments on 
contracts and special commitments to be issued by the Bank) as such aggregate amount is 
to be determined by the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to Section 2.01(b) and/or 
2.01(g) of the Tripartite Arrangement; and (ii) for which the amount of money to be 
deposited by DFID is notified pursuant to Section 2.01(c) and/or 2.01(h) of the Tripartite 
Arrangement. 
(p) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the Education Program to be carried out within its respective territorial 
jurisdiction and which Education Program has been approved by the Bank to be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(q) 
“Sichuan” means the Province of Sichuan, and any successor thereto. 
(r) 
“Special Accounts” means the five (5) accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement; and “Special Account” means, individually, any of the 
Special Accounts. 
(s) 
“Subsequent DFID Deposit” means the amount of any of the deposits of 
DFID Grant proceeds determined in accordance with Section 2.01(h) of the Tripartite 
Arrangement and to be deposited into TF Number TF052350 pursuant to Section 2.01(d) 
of the Tripartite Arrangement.  
(t) 
“Subsequent Projected Disbursement” means the amount of any of the 
projected disbursements determined in accordance with Section 2.01(g) of the Tripartite 
Arrangement.   
(u) 
“TF Number TF052350” means Trust Fund Number TF052350, which 
trust fund is established and maintained by the Bank pursuant to the terms and conditions 
of the Tripartite Arrangement. 
(v) 
“Yunnan” means the Province of Yunnan, and any successor thereto. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Provinces of Gansu, Sichuan 
and Yunnan; and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Ningxia Hui Autonomous 
Region.  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by 
the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of withdrawing proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, open and maintain in Dollars, the following five (5) separate special deposit 
accounts, in one or more commercial banks acceptable to the Bank, and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment:  
(i) 
one such account for purposes of carrying out Gansu’s Education 
Program (Gansu’s Special Account);  
(ii) 
one such account for purposes of carrying out Sichuan’s 
Education Program (Sichuan’s Special Account);  
(iii) 
one such account for purposes of carrying out Yunnan’s 
Education Program (Yunnan’s Special Account);  
(iv) 
one such account for purposes of carrying out Guangxi’s 
Education Program (Guangxi’s Special Account); and  
(v) 
one such account for purposes of carrying out Ningxia’s 
Education Program (Ningxia’s Special Account).   
Page  7
-
6
-
Deposits into and payments out of each Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.
 
(a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall pay a front-end fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of 
the  principal amount of the Loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the front-
end fee). 
 
 
(b)  
The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of six hundred fifty-six thousand Dollars ($656,000) representing sixty-five 
and six tenths of one percent (65.6%) of the front-end fee. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the Borrower 
agrees that the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the balance of the front-
end fee, or a portion thereof, in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the undisbursed balance of the DFID Grant in the event 
that DFID, for any reason, shall have failed to deposit into TF 
Number TF052350, any portion of the proceeds of the DFID 
Grant in accordance with the provisions of the Tripartite 
Arrangement or DFID shall have taken action to terminate the 
Tripartite Arrangement pursuant to Section 6.02 thereof.  The 
said withdrawal and payment of the balance of the front-end fee, 
or portion thereof, shall be made upon the expiration of fourteen 
(14) calendar days’ notice given by the Bank to DFID and the 
Borrower of DFID’s said failure to deposit or said action to 
terminate the Tripartite Arrangement.  The said undisbursed 
balance of the DFID Grant shall be determined by the Bank at 
the time of DFID’s said failure to deposit the proceeds of the 
DFID Grant, or at the time of DFID’s said action to terminate the 
Tripartite Arrangement, as the case may be.   
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply and the Bank 
shall not be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the balance of the front-end fee, or a portion thereof, if 
prior to the expiration of said fourteen (14) calendar days’ 
notice: (A) the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank that adequate funds in an amount equal to the undisbursed 
balance of the DFID Grant are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions similar to those of the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Tripartite Arrangement; or (B) the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds in an amount equal 
to the undisbursed balance of the DFID Grant are available to the 
Borrower from its own resources and are set aside under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to make the prepayment 
arrangements on terms and conditions similar to those set forth 
in the Tripartite Arrangement; or (C) the Borrower cancels the 
undisbursed amount of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 2.05. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall pay to the Bank, a commitment charge on an amount equal to sixty-five 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($65,600,000) less sixty-five and six tenths of one 
percent (65.6%) of the Loan withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-
five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such 
charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, if DFID for any 
reason fails to deposit into TF Number TF052350 
(DFID’s Non-
deposit) any portion of the proceeds of the DFID Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of the Tripartite Arrangement or 
if DFID shall have taken action to terminate the Tripartite 
Arrangement pursuant to Section 6.02 thereof, upon the 
expiration of fourteen (14) calendar days’ notice given by the 
Bank to DFID and the Borrower of DFID’s Non-deposit or said 
action to terminate the Tripartite Arrangement, the Borrower 
shall pay on each payment date following such notice, said 
commitment charge calculated on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time after the date of DFID’s 
Non-deposit or after the date of DFID’s action to terminate the 
Tripartite Arrangement, as the case may be.  
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply and the 
Borrower shall continue to pay to the Bank a commitment charge 
calculated in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) 
of this Section if prior to the expiration of said fourteen (14) 
calendar days’ notice: (A) the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds in an amount equal 
to the undisbursed balance of the DFID Grant are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions similar to 
those of the Tripartite Arrangement; or (B) the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds in 
an amount equal to the undisbursed balance of the DFID Grant 
Page  9
-
8
-
are available to the Borrower from its own resources and are set 
aside under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to make the 
prepayment arrangements on terms and conditions similar to 
those set forth in the Tripartite Arrangement. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be paid semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15  in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not request a Conversion with respect 
to any principal amount of the Loan withdrawn until prepayment corresponding to the 
said principal amount, or part thereof, has occurred pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the 
Tripartite Arrangement. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
Page  10
-
9
-
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Part B.1(c) and B.2 of the Project through 
MOE; and (ii) shall cause the Project Provinces to carry out Parts A, B.1, and C of the 
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, and technical practices and education, social and 
environment standards acceptable to the Bank and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out, or cause the Project Provinces to carry out, the actions specified in the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement in order to ensure 
proper implementation of the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and  accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (including those for the Special Accounts) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, and ensure that each Project Province prepares and furnishes, to the 
Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which 
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by each said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explain variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial monitoring 
report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement to which it is a party. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events that occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any 
Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Implementation 
Agreement to which it is a party. 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, DFID shall have 
failed to deposit into TF Number TF052350, any portion of the 
Page  13
-
12
-
proceeds of the DFID Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
the Tripartite Arrangement; DFID shall have failed to perform 
any of its other obligations under the Tripartite Arrangement; or 
DFID shall have taken action to terminate the Tripartite 
Arrangement  pursuant to Section 6.02 thereof.  
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that 
adequate funds for prepayment of the Loan in an amount equal 
to the undisbursed balance of the DFID Grant are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions similar to 
those of the Tripartite Arrangement. The said undisbursed 
balance shall be determined at the time of DFID’s said failure to 
deposit proceeds of the DFID Grant; at the time of DFID’s said 
failure to perform its obligations; or at the time of DFID’s said 
action to terminate the Tripartite Arrangement, as the case may 
be. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in Section 5.01(a) of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue to occur for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) 
Implementation Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
executed between the Borrower and the five (5) Project Provinces. 
(b) 
The Tripartite Arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed 
by DFID and the Borrower. 
(c) 
DFID has deposited into TF Number 
TF
052350 an amount equal to the 
First DFID Deposit. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
Page  14
-
13
-
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Implementation Agreement with 
each of the Project Provinces referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and said Project Province, and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and said Project Province in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
 Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China  
 
Facsimile: 
 
68551125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated  
(Expressed in Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures  
To be Financed
(1) Works 
 
62,960,000 75% 
(2) Goods: 
 
21,800,000 
100% of foreign  
expenditures and 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 75% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
 
140,000 91% 
 
(4) Training and   
study tours 
 
14,100,000 100% 
(5) Premia for Interest          
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.09(c) of this Agreement 
 
(6) Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
 _________ 
 
100,000,000
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
 March  1, 2003, provided that said withdrawals are made through the Special Accounts 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: 
(a) 
for works under contracts costing less than $4,000,000 equivalent each;  
(b) 
for goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each;  
(c) 
for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;  
(d) 
for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants and costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and  
(e) 
for training and study tours, regardless of the cost thereof,  
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving access to and 
completion of affordable and quality basic education for poor children in the Project 
Provinces under the Borrower’s Nine-year Compulsory Education Plan.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A:
Improving School Facilities
Carrying out programs to improve school facilities, consisting of one or more of 
the following activities: 
 
1. 
Construction of new and repairing and upgrading of existing buildings and 
structures in primary and junior secondary schools.  
 
2. 
Provision of school furniture, teaching equipment (including, computers and 
relevant software programs), and library books (including, culturally appropriate books 
and materials in local languages). 
 
Part B:
Strengthening Management and Administration
1. 
Carrying out programs to strengthen local institutional capacity in carrying out 
the Project and delivery of education, consisting of one or more of the following 
activities: 
 
(a) 
Development of multi-year school development plans (SDPs), using 
community-inclusive and -participatory methodologies, on a pilot basis in each Project 
Province; dissemination of the results of such pilot SDPs; and provision of training of 
provincial staff on the design and implementation of SDPs.  
 
(b) 
Carrying out of Project implementation monitoring through the provision 
of: (i) technical assistance on the collection and utilization of education data; (ii) a 
computerized system for reporting of such data at the county and township levels; and 
(iii) training for the use of such system.   
 
(c) 
Strengthening of institutional abilities at the provincial and county levels 
to implement the Project and administer education policies through the provision of 
training (including training on civil works supervision, procurement procedures, financial 
management, school development planning and participatory teaching methods) and 
study tours. 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. 
Establishment of a multi-disciplinary panel of experts at the national level to: 
(a) provide advice and guidance on various aspects of the Project; and (b) assist in 
supervising Project implementation. 
 
Part C:
Improving Quality of Teaching and Learning
1. 
Carrying out programs for the training of teachers (with special focus on training 
of bilingual, minority and female teachers) and school staff, including training in methods 
of participatory teaching, child-centered curriculum, monitoring and assessment of 
student learning achievement, multi-grade teaching, continuing education and laboratory 
training. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of programs for rural education reform pilot activities, including: 
(a) developin
g
strategies to increase girls’ enrollment and completion of primary and 
junior secondary school; (b) developing and using teaching materials in minority 
languages; (c) increasing local relevant content in the teaching curriculum, and 
(d) developing means to provide access to education for children previously excluded 
(including disabled children and children residing in remote areas), and dissemination of 
the results of said activities.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1.
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn
 
two 
months prior to the first Principal Payment Date (the current billing system pursuant to 
Section 3(a) of this Schedule), the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the 
total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding two months prior to the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. The principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding two months prior to the first Principal 
Payment Date shall be the aggregate amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account up to July 15, 2011, minus the aggregate amounts prepaid by the Borrower up to 
July 15, 2011, in accordance with Section 2.02 of the Tripartite Arrangement.  
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2011  
 
through September 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On March 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
    4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn two months
 
prior 
to the first Principal Payment Date, the total principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn 
two months prior to the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
(b) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn in 
the six-month period commencing on the date falling two (2) months prior to the first 
Principal Payment Date and ending on the date falling four (4) months after the first 
Principal Payment Date or in any subsequent six-month period (in each case commencing 
on a date falling two (2) months prior to any Principal Payment Date and ending on a 
Page  21
-
20
-
date falling four (4) months after such Principal Payment Date), the Borrower shall repay 
the Net Repayment Amount (as the term is defined below) in respect of such six (6) 
month period, if any,  on each Principal Payment Date after the period for which such Net 
Repayment Amount has been determined by the Bank by multiplying the
 
relevant Net
 
Repayment Amount by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original 
Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal 
Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the 
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling 
after the period for which such Net Repayment Amount is determined. The repayment 
amounts so calculated to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. For purposes of 
this paragraph the term “Net Repayment Amount” means the aggregate of all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account made in any six-month period consisting of the two 
months immediately prior to and the four months immediately following any Principal 
Payment Date minus the amount prepaid by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
2.02 of the Tripartite Arrangement during the same six-month period. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 4. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
 Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
School equipment, furniture, books and materials estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$26,980,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Civil works for new construction or repair of school buildings estimated 
to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $62,970,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(c) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
Part C.1 of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications 
required for compliance with the Guidelines:
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national or provincial circulation in the Borrower’s 
country and such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time 
for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding 
documents and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, 
a
minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between 
the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.  
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Province, as the 
case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and 
the bidding documents shall specify the required form and 
amount of such security. 
 
(iv) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
 
(v) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vi) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Province, as the case may be. 
 
(vii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
Page  24
-
23
-
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(viii) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,240,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $26,980,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for civil works procured using the procedures 
set forth in Part B of this Section I; (b) the first two contracts for civil works each year in 
each Project Province, which contract is procured using the procedures set forth in Part 
Page  25
-
24
-
C.1 of this Section I; (c) each contract for goods procured using the procedures set forth 
in Part B of this Section I; and (d) the first contract for teaching equipment and reference 
books procured by each Project Province using the procedures set forth in Part C.1 of this 
Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for rural education reform pilot activities and dissemination of the 
results of said activities under Part C.2 of the Project that are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for rural education reform pilot activities and 
dissemination of the results of said activities under Part C.2 of the Project that are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $70,000 equivalent and that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Sel
ection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
 
Project Management and Implementation at the Central Level
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, with 
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, the 
Foreign Investment and Loan Office established within MOE, which shall report to a 
Vice Chairman of MOE; said office to be responsible for: coordinating and overseeing 
Project implementation at the national, provincial and local levels, implementing Parts 
B.1(c) and B.2 of the Project; supervising procurement under the Project; and preparing 
the reports referred to in paragraph 4(b) of this Schedule; and 
(b) 
by January 15, 2004, establish, and maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank, the Chinese Experts Panel, headed by a chairman, and 
supported by a specialist in minority education and a core of experts  in various 
disciplines; said CEP to be responsible for: (i) providing technical advice and guidance to 
the Project Provinces on the development and implementation of their Education 
Programs and on pedagogical, social, cultural and operational aspects of the Project, and 
to MOE on the development and implementation of training programs under Part B.1(c) 
of the Project, and (ii) assisting in the supervision of Project implementation. 
Education Programs 
2. 
A program referred to in Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project to be carried out by  a 
Project Province shall qualify as an Education Program eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan only if: 
(a) 
The Project Province shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the following requirements have been met: 
(i) 
The proposed program shall be economically and financially 
viable, and technically feasible, and shall have been designed in 
accordance with education standards acceptable to the Bank. 
(ii) 
The Project Province shall have the organization, management 
and resources required for the proper carrying out of the 
proposed program, and to this end, has established a provincial-
level project management office in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2(a) Section II of the Annex to this 
Schedule.   
Page  28
-
27
-
(iii) 
The Project Province shall have prepared a detailed time-bound 
action plan for the implementation of its proposed program. 
(iv) 
With respect to construction proposed under programs under 
 Part A.1 of the Project: (A)  the proposed construction shall not 
include the construction of new primary-level boarding schools or 
expansion of existing boarding schools to compensate for the 
closure of village primary schools and teaching points; and (B) the 
construction proposal shall avoid the acquisition of land or assets 
of dwellers and the displacement of dwellers. 
 
(b) 
The Bank shall have notified the Borrower and said Project Province of 
the Bank’s approval of the proposed program. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have allocated an amount of the proceeds of the Loan 
to said Project Province to carry out the approved Education Program. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall have entered into an Implementation Agreement with 
the Project Province to carry out its Education Program and to make available to the 
Project Province, the latter’s respective Allocated Amount: (a) on the principal terms set 
forth in Section I of the Annex to this Schedule; and (b) on conditions acceptable to the 
Bank and as set forth in the Implementation Agreement, which shall be entered into 
between the Borrower and said Project Province in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in Section II of said Annex. 
Implementation Agreement
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) cause each Project Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Implementation Agreement to which said Project Province is a party, all 
of the obligations of said Project Province therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable said Project Province to perform such obligations; and 
(iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights under each of the Implementation Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive any of the Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Page  29
-
28
-
Monitoring and Reporting
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out 
of Parts B.1(c) and B.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(ii) ensure that each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures, adequate to 
enable each of them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, and ensure that each Project Province prepares, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, the following reports: 
(i) 
annual reports, not later than April 15 in each calendar year: 
(A) integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities, performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
 Parts B.1(c) and B.2 of the Project by the Borrower and Parts A, 
B.1 and C of the Project by each Project Province during the 
twelve-month period preceding the date of said report and 
ending on December 31; and (B) setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
respective parts of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and  
(ii) 
a mid-term report, not later than September 1, 2006, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)(i) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(c) after 
furnishing: 
(i) 
each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this paragraph, 
review, and cause each Project Province to review, said report 
with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the respective parts of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter; and  
Page  30
-
29
-
(ii) 
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, 
review, and cause each Project Province to review, said report 
with the Bank, by October 15, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the respective parts of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  31
-
30
-
Annex
To
Schedule 5
For purposes of paragraph 2(d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the terms of 
availability of each Allocated Amount shall be those set forth in Section I of this Annex, 
and the Implementation Agreements shall be entered into on the conditions set forth in 
Section II of this Annex.  
Section I
.
Terms of Availability of the Respective Allocated Amount 
1. 
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to each 
Project Province for the carrying out its Education Program, under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
The Borrower shall make the principal amount of the Allocated Amount 
available to each Project Province in Dollars (determined on the date, or respective dates, 
of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall recover the principal amount in Dollars so made 
available, from each Project Province in equal semi-annual installments, over a period of 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of eight (8) years. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate not exceeding two percent (2%) per annum. 
(d) 
Except as provided in subparagraphs (a) through (c) above, the Borrower 
shall not charge any other fees whatsoever in connection with making the proceeds of the 
Loan available to a Project Province; provided, however, that if the Bank shall charge the 
Borrower: (i) a premium on the prepayment of the principal amount of the Loan; or (ii) a 
commitment charge of more than 35 basis points during the period set forth in 
 Section 2.05(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement; or (iii) a commitment charge of more than 25 
basis points during the period set forth in Section 2.05(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement, the 
Borrower may charge such additional costs to the Project Provinces. 
Section II
.
Conditions of the Implementation Agreement
1. 
Each Implementation Agreement with a Project Province shall contain provisions 
pursuant to which the Project Province shall be obligated to carry out the actions 
applicable to it and set forth below. 
Management
2. 
In order to facilitate the implementation of its Education Program, each Project 
Province: 
Page  32
-
31
-
(a) 
shall undertake to maintain, throughout the period of implementation 
thereof, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and other resources satisfactory to 
the Bank, a provincial project management office, headed by a director of the Provincial 
Education Bureau, which shall report to the Vice-Governor for Education of said Project 
Province and to the MOE; said provincial project management office shall be responsible 
for planning and coordinating the implementation of its Education Program.  
 
(b) 
shall cause to be maintained within each of the Project Counties within 
the Project Province’s jurisdiction, throughout the period of implementation thereof, with 
terms of reference, membership, staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Bank, a 
county project management office, headed by a director of the County Education Bureau, 
which shall report to the Magistrate of the Project County; said project county 
management office shall be responsible for supervising the carrying out of those activities 
under the Education Program within the Project County. 
General Implementation
3. 
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
financial, and technical practices and education, social and environment standards 
acceptable to the Bank and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said carrying out of the Project. 
4. 
Without limitation to the foregoing, each Project Province shall carry out the 
following:   
(a) 
Procure goods, works and services required for its Education Program 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
(b) 
Insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the purchaser thereof to 
replace or repair such goods.  
(c) 
Utilize said goods, works and services exclusively for the purpose of 
carrying out its Education Program. 
(d) 
Enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all goods, facilities, sites 
and works included in its Education Program, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents. 
(e) 
At all times operate and maintain any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to its Education Program under the Project and promptly, as needed, 
Page  33
-
32
-
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, administrative and public health practices. 
(f) 
Implement the Ethnic Minorities Education Strategy in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) provide full consultation with and informed participation 
of ethnic minorities that will be affected by implementation of their Respective Part of 
the Project; and (ii) ensure that the design and implementation of its Respective Part of 
the Project adequately addresses the needs, cultural practices and preferences of such 
communities, and not amend, waive or modify the provisions of said strategy without the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
Implementation of Programs under Part C of the Project
5. 
In implementing an Education Program under Part C.1 of the Project, each 
Project Province shall provide special training for 
daike
 (temporary) teachers to upgrade 
the skills of such teachers in areas, including multi-grade teaching and bilingual 
education
.
6. 
In implementing an Education Program under Part C.2 of the Project, each 
Project Province shall:  
 
(a) 
Select counties in which the Project Province proposes to carry out rural 
education reform pilot activities according to criteria acceptable to the Bank, including 
criteria that takes into account the following in the proposed county: (a) the size of the 
ethnic minority population; (b) status of economic development; and (c) education 
performance (including the enrollment and drop-out rates of girls and ethnic minority 
students). 
 
(b) 
Within six (6) months of the signing of its respective Implementation 
Agreement, furnish to the Bank for approval a draft time-bound action plan for the 
carrying out of rural education reform pilot activities (including the dissemination of the 
results of said activities) and thereafter, carry out said action plan taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon. 
Financial Reporting
7. 
In carrying out its Education Program, each Project Province shall: 
(a) 
 maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures of said Project Province’s departments or agencies that are responsible for 
carrying out said Education Program or any part thereof; 
 
(b) 
have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  34
-
33
-
(c) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank may, from time to time reasonably request. 
Annual Action Plan 
8. 
Each Project Province shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank by October 31 in each calendar year for review 
and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of its Education Program during 
the following calendar year, and  
 
(b) 
thereafter, carry out such Education Program in accordance with such 
action plan as shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
Page  35
-
34
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of each of the five (5) 
Special Accounts, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, in respect of each of the five 
(5) Special Accounts, the respective amount set forth as the Authorized Allocation for 
each Special Account in the Annex to this Schedule, to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule.   
2. 
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested provided that:  
(i) 
the amount or total of the amounts so requested has been 
included in the First Projected Disbursement; and 
(ii) 
the amount of monies in TF Number TF052350, is not less than 
the amount of the First DFID Deposit.  
Page  36
-
35
-
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request and subject to the provisions in 
subparagraph (b)(iii) below, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.  
(iii) 
The Bank will deposit into the Special Account the amount 
requested under subparagraph (b)(ii) above provided that: 
(A) the amount so requested has been included in the First 
Projected Disbursement or Subsequent Projected Disbursement 
for the Relevant Six-month Period, plus additional deposits made 
by DFID into TF Number TF052350
,
as the case may be; and 
(B) the amount of monies in TF Number TF052350, is not less 
than amount of the First DFID Deposit or Subsequent DFID 
Deposit for the Relevant Six-month Period, plus additional 
deposits made by DFID into TF Number TF052350, as the case 
may be. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)  
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  37
-
36
-
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;  
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;  
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for said Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation; or 
(e) 
if, at any time, the Bank determines that:  
 
(i) 
the amount or total of the amounts so requested has not been 
included in the Subsequent Projected Disbursement for the 
Relevant Six-month Period; or  
 
(ii) 
the amount of monies in TF Number TF052350 is less than the 
amount of the Subsequent DFID Deposit for the Relevant Six-
Month Period.  
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for said Special Account shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit into said Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.  
Page  38
-
37
-
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  39
-
38
-
Annex 
To  
Schedule 6 
 
Special Account
Eligible Categories
Authorized 
Allocation 
(Expressed in US$)
Gansu’s Special Account 
 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) 
800,000 
Sichuan’s Special Account 
 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) 
1,700,000 
Yunnan’s Special Account 
 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) 
1,700,000 
Guangxi’s Special Account 
 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) 
1,500,000 
Ningxia’s Special Account 
 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) 
1,000,000 
