                                        Documentof
                                   The World Bank

                           FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                       ReportNo: 35615-TZ




                         PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                            ONA

                                  PROPOSEDCREDIT
                      INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR27.9 MILLION
                          (US$40.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                         UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                           FORAN

         ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY& INTEGRITY PROJECT

                                      April 13,2006




Public Sector Reformand CapacityBuilding
Country Department 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 13,2006)


                          Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings
                                 TShs1 = US$O.O00817
                                 US$ 1.0 = TShs 1,224.70

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1- June 30


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAP         Africa Action Plan
ATP         Accountability, TransparencyandIntegrity Project
BEST        Business Environment StrengtheningProgram
BOT         Bank o f Tanzania
C A G       Controller and Auditor General
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CHRGG       Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance
CLE         Council for LegalEducation
C C M       Chama Cha Mapinduzi
CPAR        Country Procurement -Assessment Report
cso         Civil Society Organization
DCS         Departmentof Computer Services
DFID        Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment
DPS         DeputyPermanent Secretary
DPs         Development Partners
ES          Ethics Secretariat
EU          EuropeanUnion
FEAT        Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency
FILMUP      Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project
FRs         Financial Reports
GBS         General Budget Support
GGCU        Good Governance Coordination Unit
GOT         Government o f Tanzania
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus /Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
IDA         InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC         Information, education and communication
IFMS        Integrated financial managementsystem
I M T C     Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee
IMWG        Inter Ministerial Working Group

                                            - -
                                             11



JAS           -  Joint Assistance Strategy
JIPRC         -  Joint ImplementationProgram Review Committee
JSC              Joint Steering Committee
LGAs          -- Local Government Authorities
LGW              Local Government Reform Program
LGSP             Local Government Support Program
LRCT          -  Law Reform Commission o f Tanzania
LSRP          -  Legal Sector Reform Program
MDAs          -  Ministries, departments and agencies
MDGs          -  Millennium development goals
MJCA          -  Ministryo fJustice and Constitutional Affairs
MKUKUTA -        National Strategy for Growth and Reduction o f Poverty
MoF              MinistryofFinance
M o U            Memorandum o f Understanding
MTEF             Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NACSAP           NationalAnti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan
N A O            National Audit Office
NFGG             National Framework for Good Governance
NGOs             Non-Governmental Organizations
OWIS             Oversight and watchdog institutions
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PCB              Prevention o f Corruption Bureau
PER              Public Expenditure Review
PFMRP            Public Financial Management Reform Program
P M U            Procurement Management Units
PO-PSM           President's Office Public Service Management
PRBS             Poverty ReductionBudget Support
PRSC             Poverty ReductionSupport Credit
PRSL             Poverty ReductionSupport Loan
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSRP             Public Service Reform Program
SDC              Swiss Development and Cooperation Agency
SIDA             Swedish Development Agency
SWAP             Sector-Wide Approach
TLS              Tanganyika Law Society




Vice President:                                    GobindNankani
Country ManagerDirector:                          JudyM.O'Connor
Sector Manager:                                   Helga W. Muller
Task Team Leader:                                 Denyse E. Morin


                                                               .111.
                                                                  ...


                                                        TANZANIA
                        Accountability. Transparency& Integrity Project



                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                      5
 3.  Higherlevelobjectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                  6

B
.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................   7
 1.  Lendinginstrument .............................................................................................................             7
 2.  Project development objective andkey indicators                              .............................................................. 7
 3. Project components .............................................................................................................              8
 4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                                22
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                              23

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................     24
 1.  Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                 24 .
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                               25
 3. Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults ................................................................                               28
 4.  Sustainablllty.....................................................................................................................
           *    . .                                                                                                                              28
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                            29
 6.  Credit conditions and covenants .......................................................................................                     32

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      .................................................................................................     32
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                      32
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................        33
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       33
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................     35
 5.  Environment......................................................................................................................           35
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................             36

 7   Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       36

                                                              .iv.


Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                    .........................................................     37

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                          .................47
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                           ........................................................................      49

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                ......................................................................................        53

Annex 5: ProgradProject Costs               ..............................................................................................         72

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                      .................................................................................        73

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                                 .....................................   84

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                    ......................................................................................        98

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                      ...........................................................................        104

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues             ..........................................................................................         106

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                          ...................................................................       108

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                    ...............................................................................        110

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                      ............................................................................       111

Annex 14: Country at a Glance            ...............................................................................................          113

Annex 15: Letter of Sector Policy           ............................................................................................          115

Annex 16: Maps .........................................................................................................................          124

                                                - v -


                                            TANZANIA
                ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY PROJECT
                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                                              AFRICA
                                               AFTPR

                                                   Team Leader: Denyse E.Morin
~~
 Date: April 13,2006
  Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor                Sectors: Law andjustice (63%); General
  Sector ManagedDirector: Helga W. Muller           finance sector (25%); Central government
                                                    administration (12%)
                                                   Themes: Other accountability/anti-corruption
                                                    (P); Public expenditure, financial management
                                                    and procurement (P); Judicial and other
                                                   disputeresolutionmechanisms (P);Standards
                                                    and financial reporting (S); Law reform (S)
 Project ID: PO70544                              IEnvironmental screening category: Partial
                                                   Assessment
 LendingInstrument: Specific Investment
 Lending

  [ ] Loan    [XI Credit   [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Other:

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 40.00
  Proposedterms (IDA): Standard Credit
  Grace Period: 10 years                           Years o f maturity: 40




  INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT
  ASSOCIATION                                            11.2             28.8               40.0
  BILATERALAGENCIES                                      22.0             56.6               78.6
  Total:                                                 60.2             85.4             145.6

  Borrower:
  UnitedRepublic of Tanzania
  MinistryofFinance
  Dar es Salaam
  Tanzania

  ResponsibleAgencies:
      (1) DeputyPermanent Secretary, Ministryo fFinance, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
      (2) DeputyAttorney Generalpermanent Secretary, Ministry o f Justice & Constitutional
          Affairs, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
      (3) Chairman, Ethics Secretariat, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania

                                                 - vi -



'Y                                                      2007  I 2008      2009     2010     2011
m u a l                                                  5.60 1  8.10       8.10 I 11.10      7.10
hmulative                                                5.60   13.70     21.80 '  32.90    40.00




ATP will contribute to improved accesstojudicial and legal services and inthe accountable and
transparent use o f public financial resources. This will be achieved by improving the skills and
systems to deliver judicial/legal services andpublic financial management, and strengthening the
capacity o f oversight and watchdog institutions (OWIs) to perform their role.

Project description:

The program has four components: (i)     strengtheningthe legal andjudicial system; (ii)enhancing
public financial accountability; (iii)strengtheningoversight andwatchdog institutions; and (iv)
project coordination.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?
Partial Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)
as a result o f civil works.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: none
Boardpresentation: none
Credit effectiveness: Submission o f legal opinion inaccordance with the General Conditions.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Conditions o f disbursement:
For component 1, signature o fthe Legal Sector ReformProgram (LSRP) Memorandum o f
Understanding (MOU), appointment o fthe keyMinistry o f Justice and Constitutional Affairs
staff, and approval by thejoint Government o f Tanzania/Donor committee o f the respective
LSRP annual work planandbudget;
For component 2, signature o f a modified Public Financial Management Reform Program
(PFMRP)Memorandum o fUnderstanding (MOU) and approvalbythejoint GoTDonor
committee o f the respective PFMRP annual work plan and budget; and
For components 3 and 4, finalization o fthe Ethics Secretariat Operations Manual, appointment
of key staff and, for approval o f the Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency (FEAT)
grants exceeding a specified threshold, a prior no-objection bythe Bank.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues

During the past decade the Government o f Tanzania (GOT)has implemented a comprehensive
program o f reforms that has yielded sustained macroeconomic stability, an increasingly
liberalized economy, and scope for the private sector to become the main agent o f economic
activity. These reforms have created the foundation for accelerated economic growth. Overall
economic growth has risen consistently for the past eight years (except in 2003 due to drought)
from 3.3 percent in 1997 to 6.7 percent in 2004, which is an average annual growth rate o f 5.1
percent. However, poverty still remains widespread and at an average o f US$ 330 per capita
(Atlas Method), Tanzania remains one o f the poorest countries inthe world.

The Government has developed a National Strategy for Growth and Reduction o f Poverty
(MKUKUTA)' that provides an overarching framework for fightingpoverty and a framework for
resource allocation. It i s based on three clusters (i)    growth and reduction o f income poverty; (ii)
improved quality of life and social well-being; and (iii)good governance and accountability.
The strategy's major focus is shared growth, recognizing that this cannot be achieved without
addressing governance issues that are the bedrock o fpublic sector performance.

To address good governance and accountability, the Government developed in 1999 its National
Framework for Good Governance (NFGG). The NFGG continues to be the platform for the
ongoing, crosscutting public sector reforms, namely, public service, local government, public
financial management and legal/judicial as well as anti-corruption measures detailed in the
National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan (NACSAP).                  The latter enshrines the
government's program to fight corruption. It provides the framework within which ministries,
departments and agencies (MDAs) are expected to initiate concrete measures to address
corruption inaddition to implementing the crosscutting reforms. NACSAP Iwas a coherent and
holistic program designed to be implemented over five years (2000-05).               GOTis now in the
process o f taking stock of its achievements as well as designing a successor phase. The key
thrust o f the next NACSAP will remain the same.

The newly elected President Kikwete in his inaugural speech2 emphasized that the new
government will continue to implement the crosscutting reforms started under the Mkapa
government to provide more efficient and effective delivery o f services to the public.             He
highlightedthe need for good governance, transparency and accountability. He emphasized the
war on corruption and the need to strengthen key organs o f governance, e.g., the judiciary, the
Prevention o f Corruption Bureau, the Ethics Secretariat (ES) and others that are at the forefront
o f this fight. H e also underscored the importance o f strengthening the rule o f law and ensuring
that procurement processes are transparent.
The sector issuesto be addressedby the project

The Government has set up the Good Governance Coordination Unit (GGCU) inthe President's
Office to coordinate the implementation o f NACSAP which includes monitoring the



* Speech
'Known   by its Kiswahiliacronym MKUKUTA.
         to inaugurate the Fourth Phase Parliament on December 30, 2005.

                                                - 2 -


implementation o f the crosscutting reforms as a crucial vehicle to discourage and control
corruption. It has mobilized MDAs to report regularly and systematically on their fight against
corruption. Although several undertakings and mechanisms are inplace, there are a number o f
challenges that still remain inorder to improve governance inTanzania.

The GOThas made progress in addressing the management o f its human resources through the
public service reform program (PSRP). It continues to improve the management o f financial
resources by implementing the public financial management reform program (PFMRP) and to
strengthen the fiduciary contract with citizens via improved revenue collection. Through its
local government reform, it i s seeking to increase citizens' direct involvement and bring
accountability closer to them. The Government has also designed a program o f legal/judicial
reforms that aims at providing the environment necessary to uphold the rule o f law and give
confidence to both citizens and private sector that they can be heard and judged in a fair and
transparent way.     The latter reform program is the least advanced. To complement these
comprehensive reforms, the GOT recognizes the need to continue to improve the performance
and effectiveness o f institutions such as the Prevention o f Corruption Bureau (PCB) and the
GGCU to effectively coordinate the anti-corruption efforts, and to raise awareness and
engagement o f non-state actors. NACSAP and NFGG identified specifically, among others, the
following issues to be addressed comprehensively:


    0   weak legal andjudicial system;
    0   gaps in procedures and controls for public expenditure management and more broadly
        financial accountability; and
    0   weak oversight and watchdog (0WIs) institutions.
 Weak legal andjudicial system

Upholding the rule o f law through the efficient, fair and transparent administration o f justice i s
the basis for the promotion and maintenance o f social peace and stability o f the state. It is also
crucial in ensuring an enabling environment for development generally and to attract private
sector investment. The quality o f legal andjudicial services remains low. This i s reflected by:
(a) inordinate delays inresolving disputes and dispensingjustice; (b) very limitedaccess to legal
services for the majority o f citizens particularly the poor and uninformed; (c) corruption and
other unethical conduct o f officers inthe legal system; (d) a legal system that i s not responsive to
social, political, economic, technological changes, and to long-running financial constraints; and
(e) limitedpublic trust inthe legal andjudicial system.

The problems and constraints underlyingthe weakness o f the legal andjudicial systemhave been
identified by stakeholders as:     (i)a fragmented, excessively bureaucratic, cumbersome and
outdated legal and regulatory framework; (ii)weak management and coordination o f
legal/judicial institutions; (iii)
                                low competence, morale and integrity o f some public sector legal
personnel; (iv) inadequate numbers o f professionally-trained legal personnel; (v) constrained
independence and low integrity o f the legal system; and (vi) poorly furnished, equipped and
maintainedwork environment o fpublic sector legal institutions.

                                                   - 3 -


Inresponse to these deficiencies, the GOThas developed a comprehensive Legal Sector Reform
Program (LSRP) with the broad participation o f key legal/judicial institutions and stakeholders.
The LSRP seeks to improve access to justice and increase the effectiveness o f delivery o f
judicial and legal services. The Government recognizes that it needs to give a high priority to
this reform agenda now that the other crosscutting reform programs are underway. Failure to do
so would undermine the gains made in the other areas o f public service, public finance, local
government and sectoral reforms, and wouldjeopardize achievingthe MISUKUTA objectives.

Gaps in procedures and controlsfor public expenditure management and more broadly for
financia1accountability

Over the past decade, the Government has been improving its systems and practice o f public
expenditure management. With regard to budget management, the imposition o f a strict cash
budget regime has provided more reliable aggregate control over total public expenditure,
consistent with revenue raising capacity and borrowing constraints. Budget reform through
Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), implementation o f a Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) and by introducing performance budgeting (linked to a public service
improvement strategy under the Public Service Reform Program -- PSRP) are underway. These
latter initiatives aim at improving allocative and operational efficiencies o f the Government's
expenditure programs.

Inaccounting for public expenditures, the Government has successfully installed a transparent,
computerized, integrated financial management system (IFMS) in all ministries. The system is
currently being rolled out to agencies and districts. Inthis respect, Tanzania is a pace setter in
Sub-Saharan Africa. However, the procedures and controls for public expenditure management
remain weak inthe three following areas:

        (i)      Procurement. Over the years, there has been weak set o f public procurement
                 statutory controls, regulations and procedures. Consequently, as explained inthe
                 report o f the Presidential Commission o f Enquiry against Corruption3 (1996),
                 there have been grave concerns about corruption and waste in the procurement o f
                 goods and services by public officers. PresidentKikwete, inhis inaugural speech,
                 stated the need to tackle this issue seriously.

                 The NACSAP also emphasizes the need for procurement reforms. The recently
                 passed Public Procurement Act (2004) provides for the establishment o f a
                 regulatory fiarnework and decentralization o f procurement functions to MDAs.
                 To date, regulations accompanying the implementation o f the Act have been
                 passed and measures are being taken to operationalize them in all MDAs. These
                 needto be enforced by the regulatory authority to improve compliance. This is an
                 area that needs to be implemented more vigorously under the PFMRP and for
                 which the Bank's technical expertise i s sought by other development partners
                 (DPs).

        (ii)     Internal Audit. An effectively performing internal audit function supports and


  Betterknown as the Warioba Report

                                                - 4 -


              reinforces the internal controls for safeguarding proper custody, use and
              accounting for the resources o f any organization. While the GOThas had an
              Internal Audit Department in the Ministry o f Finance (MoF) and other ministries,
              this task has never functioned well. This is explained by the following: (i)       the
              function i s poorly staffed interms o f both quality and numbers o f personnel; and
              probably the most important; (ii)     there was limited demand for regular internal
              audit reports by public service managers.          However, this is changing and
              recognized as an area to be addressedby the PFMRP.

       (iii)  Mandate and Capacity o f the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office
              (NAO) i s established in the Constitution to promote and safeguard financial
              accountability for the custody and use o f public resources.           However, the
              performance o f the NAO is still significantly constrained in three important
              respects. Firstly, the mandate o f the office has traditionally been restricted, Le., it
              provided for the checking compliance and did not allow for value for money
              (VFM) audits; this considerably reduces the value o f the function. Secondly,
              while the NAO has been constitutionally empowered to make independent
              decisions and report directly to Parliament, the office had been, until three years
              ago, constrained in its independence o f operation because it depends wholly on
              the MoF for funding, and on the President's Office-Public Service Management
              (PO-PSM) for staff appointments and compensation.             Thirdly, in part as a
              consequence o f the second, the office does not have enough skilled personnel to
              carry out its audits efficiently, effectively and on time.

              The NFGG clearly states that to improve financial accountability as well as
              control o f value for money in government spending, there has to be an effective
              external audit capacity. Inthe PFMRP, Government has started to address these
              constraints. Through the Public Finance Act, Government changed the Exchequer
              and Audit Ordinance to grant the NAO operational autonomy and gave it a
              mandate to carry out value for money (VFM) audits.

Weak Oversightand WatchdogInstitutions (0WIs)

Tanzania has led the way in establishing oversight institutions for good governance. In 1995, it
introduced a leadership code o f ethics and established the Ethics Secretariat within the
President's Office whose executive officer is a Judge o f the High Court. It also established a
Prevention o f Corruption Bureau (PCB) and a Commission for Human Rights and Good
Governance (CHRGG).        This is in addition to the traditional oversight institutions such as
Parliament and the NAO. In spite o f this multiplicity o f institutions, the country continues to
face serious governance problems. The afore-mentioned oversight institutions remain weak.
This has been highlighted by the Bank's recently completed political economy study, the
Department for International Development (DFID's) Drivers o f Change study on accountability
and SIDA's power analysis study. All three concluded that much work remains to be done
before the legislative and judiciary branches, and the participation o f non-state actors can
counterbalance the monopoly o f the executive on power and authority.

                                                       - 5 -


These weaknesses emanate fiom the common maladies that have afflicted other public
institutions, including: under-funding o f operations, inability to recruit, motivate and retain well
qualified and strongly motivated officers, overlapping mandates that give rise to conflicts,
absence o f collaboration and coordination amongst these institutions, and a weak legal
framework. The NFGGrecognizes these malaises and seeks to strengthen these institutions and
their framework to enable them to exercise more effectively their oversight role and hence to
hold the GOT more accountable.               It also advocates the need to strengthen civil society
organizations by increasing citizens' voice in pursuit o f good governance. The fourth phase
government has, so far, welcomed the role o f civil society. Its critique o f the status quo touches
all the issues that have been the hue and cry o f civil society. There i s an opportunity for a
partnership that may pushthe governance agenda forward.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tanzania (2000-2003) focuses
interventions in four areas o f strategic importance, based on GOT'Sdevelopment agenda
contained inthe Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP)4. They include: private sector and
infrastructure development; sustainable rural development; improved social infrastructure; and
public sector reform and institution building to increase the effectiveness o f public service
delivery and improve governance. ATIP i s closely related to the last area since it will support
reforms that will have impact on both service delivery and will contribute to improving
governance.

A successor CAS, the Joint Assistance Strategy (JAS), is being prepared jointly with other DPs
seeking to align Bank support fully'with MKUKUTA. MKUKUTA seeks to continue the
reforms on governance that were undertaken under the PRSP, including fostering the rule o f law
andmaking leaders and public servants accountable to the people.

Within the Bank, the Africa Action Plan (AM) seeks to provide a new impetus to the
implementation o f the Strategic Framework for IDA inAfrica (SFIA). It acknowledges that the
"principal means available to Africa's economies to achieve [the MDGs] include buildinghonest
and capable states; raising the rate o f growth, and enabling the poor and women to participate in
and benefit from growth."         Operationally, the Bank recognizes countries that "benefit from
reform-minded state leadership, capacity for strategic decision-making, and have the
organizational and institutional capacity for policy and program implementation". Bank support
for interventions that improve public sector management, strengthen discipline in fiscal
expenditures and revenues, and further reform o f legal andjudicial systems in such countries is
viewed as key by the AAP. The Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project (ATIP) i s
the Bank's response to the GOT'S renewed impetus to reform its legal/judicial systems, to
continue to strengthen its public financial management, to intensify the participation o f oversight
and watchdog institutions (OWIs) and to strengthen the capacity o f non-state actors to hold
government accountable for the delivery o f services. This group o f activities complements
ongoing crosscutting and sectoral reforms inwhich the Bank is actively involved. Inaddition to
supporting various sector development programs, the Bank i s already involved in supporting
GOT'Spublic service reform program andthe reform o f local government.

~~




  Tanzania Government's first poverty reduction strategy program for 2000-2003

                                                - 6 -



Through the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) policy dialogue, the Bank, in harmony
with the Poverty Reduction Budget Support (PRBS) DPs, is supporting government's objective
to improve its performance in the area of good governance and accountability (MKUKUTA
Cluster 3). The performance assessment framework for the PRSCPRBS includes results in all
public sector reform areas including the reforms that ATP would support, Le., public financial
management, legal/judicial reforms and anti-corruption.

The Bank supported the GOTthroughout its longjourney to develop the legal/judicial program o f
reforms and has been instrumental in guiding the development o f a reform program for public
financial management.       The Bank has also nurtured government's commitment to fostering
greater participation o f non-state actors, for example, through the public expenditure review
process (PER). The PRBSPRSCPRSL policy dialogue and the programmatic approaches
(SWAp: sector-wide approaches) provide complementary vehicles to supporting the
Government's comprehensive reform agenda. ATIP will support institutional reforms inthe key
areas o f legal/judicial reforms, public financial management and strengthening the capacity o f
oversight and watchdog institutions. These three areas have yet to benefit from the same level o f
support as other crosscutting reforms.      The Bank's worldwide comparative experience and
expertise in addition to its long-term involvement with GOTin these areas is welcomed by
Government and DPs.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

ATP will contribute to the GOT'Sefforts to achieve the outcomes o f the governance cluster o f
the MKUKUTA. These broad outcomes include: (i)           good governance and the rule o f law are
ensured; (ii)leaders and public servants are accountable to the people through the effective
reduction o f corruption and public access to information; (iii)democracy and political and social
tolerance are deepened; and (iv) peace, political stability, national unity and social cohesion are
cultivated and sustained. In collaboration with other DPs, ATIP will contribute directly to
achieve goals (i) and (ii)fthe MKUKUTA while indirectly contributing to other outcomes.
                           o

In pursuit of these outcomes, Government has adopted comprehensive, crosscutting reforms
namely the legal sector reform program (LSRP) and the public financial management reform
program (PFMRP) and a National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan (NACSAP).             The
LSRP andthe PFMRP bothhave the support o f several DPsthrough SWAPS. For the NACSAP,
Government has established its own fund that M D A s can access for anti-corruption activities that
do not fall under the reform programs. Through components 1 and 2 o f ATP, the Bank will
directly provide resources to complement those o f the GOTand other DPs inthe implementation
of the LSRP and the PFMRP respectively. By way o f its third component, ATP will reinforce
the results foreseen under the LSRP and PFMRP as well as the NACSAP by strengthening the
capacity from the demand side o f accountability, transparency and integrity in both the use of
public sources and service delivery, including access to justice.

 Further, by strengthening the demand side o f good governance, ATIP will, secondarily,
contribute to the Government's policy objectives for improved public service delivery and
poverty reduction. In pursuit o f these objectives, Government with the support o f DPs has a

                                                - 7 -


wide range o f sector development projects, as well as cross-cutting programs for public service
reform (PSRP), local government reform (LGRP) and decentralization. In these programs, it i s
generally acknowledged that weak demand by the public for accountability, transparency and
integrity o f service providers and their managers i s a major risk. However, overall, interventions
to mitigate this risk have been imprecise and ineffective. The third component o f ATP i s an
innovative initiative to close that gap inthe governance cycle.

The Government's letter o f sector policy clearly spells out the GOT'Sconsolidated vision for
ATP and its commitment to the project. It underlines the fact that ATP will support the
implementation o f programs that will enable the government to deliver on the pledge made by
President Kikwete, namely that the government will focus on good governance and
accountability andthe rule o f law.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

GOTseeks to gradually move DPs' assistanceto the general budget support modality. However,
it is recognised that the resource allocation system needs to develop further before budget
support can hlly encompass sectors with limited capacity and experience in articulating a
strategic vision for the sector, setting priorities and policies, and managing comprehensive,
strategic reform programs including the participation o f a wide-range o f stakeholders, such as the
LSRP and the PFMRP. Inthis context, the Government and other DPs have opted for SWAP
investment operations with pooled funding arrangements to support the implementation o f the
LSRP and the PFMRP. The Bank will join other DPs to support this programmatic approach
with pooled funds for components 1and 2, in addition to the earmarked funds for components 3
and4 which are fully aligned with Government strategy but for which no pooled fundmodalities
have yet been established. ATP will be funded through a five-year Specific Investment Loan
(SIL), which provides the flexibility to create and rehabilitate institutional infrastructure.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

ATP will contribute to improved access tojudicial and legal services andto the accountable and
transparent use o f public financial resources. This will be achieved by assisting the borrower in
improving the skills and means to deliver judicial and legal services and public financial
management, strengtheningthe capacity o f OWIs to perform their role, and enabling the GGCU
to coordinate anti-corruption efforts more effectively and more broadly the dialogue on good
governance.

Progress in achieving results will be measured by the following key indicators (see Annex 3 for
more details). Progress on legal andjudicial reform will be measured by the percentage o f court
cases outstanding for two years or more (PAF indicators).              Progress on public financial
management will be measured by the percentage o f MDAs with clean value for money audit in
the NAO report presented to Parliament. Progress in strengthening OWIs will be measured by:
 (i) increasednumberofOWIs that use evidence-based reportsinassessing government
    the

                                                 - 8 -


performance in core reform programs, and (ii) increased number o f professional associations
                                                  the
actively promoting ethical conduct amongst members.

3. Projectcomponents

The project will have four main components that reflect the key areas identified in GoT's
MKUKUTA,NFGGandNACSAP as necessaryto improve good governance inTanzania:

1. Strengthening legal andjudicial system;
2. Enhancingpublic financial accountability;
3. Strengthening oversight and watchdog institutions; and
4. Project coordination

Component1: Strengtheningthe legal andjudicialsystem-US$71.3 million (of which US$
24.8 millioni s funded by IDA)

A T P will support the implementation o f GoT's comprehensive legal/judicial reform program -
the Legal Sector Reform Program. Support to the overall LSRP will be harmonized with other
DPs through a SWAP modality with pooled funds. Although the LSRP i s a three-year program,
this time-span has been extended to five years under the ATP, taking into account
implementation capacity inthe implementinglegal andjudicial institutions. ATP support to the
LSRP will not be used to finance police, prisons, prosecution and human rights activities. The
LSRP Memorandum o f Understandingbetween the GOTand pooled hnding DPs will explicitly
provide for this exclusion.

The LSRP is the result o f a long participatory process that started with a series o f comprehensive
studies on the legal/judicial system carried out under the leadership o f a Legal Reform Task
Force. The Task Force report producedin 1996 highlightedissues that overall remain valid. The
LSRP and its medium-term strategy and action plan were prepared in response to the Task
Force's recommendations. The dialogue involved many stakeholders, both government and non-
government, who together designed the overall LSRP over a long period. The LSRP's objective
i s to improve access to judicial and legal services for all Tanzanians through improving the
capacity o f selected legal andjudicial institutions as defined inAnnex 6. This will contribute to
achieve the MKUKUTA outcomes on governance and accountability and will contribute to
providing an enabling environment for private sector investments and growth.              The LSRP
objectives will be closely coordinated with the Business Environment Strengthening Program in
Tanzania (BEST). To achieve these results, the LSRP plans to intervene in the following six
sub-components, referred to inthe LSRP as "key result areas (KRAs)".

Sub-component 1:Establishment of a harmonized national legalframework - US$%7 million

GOTis adopting a comprehensive approach to harmonizing the national legal framework by
amending key legislation, streamlining processes and improving capacity for legal research,
drafting and law reform. The key outcomes and related activities as laid out inthe mediumterm
strategy for LSRP are described below:

                                                 - 9 -


                Improved legal environment for enhanced social justice and safety and
                economic development.         The LSRP seeks to harmonize the country's legal
                framework by creating linkages among sectors governed by similar or related
                legal frameworks. This will ensure that all reform programs include a review,
                update, harmonization and alignment o f their respective regulatory frameworks.
                The LSRP includes harmonization o f commercial laws, an activity, which i s
                financed under the BEST program.            BEST is a five-year private sector
                development program funded by SIDA, Netherlands, DFID, Denmark and IDA
                through the Private Sector Competitiveness Project. Measures are underway to
                ensure that there are no overlaps in activities and funding between the A T P and
                the BEST. Adequate coordination i s being put in place in the MJCA to ensure
                complementarities in the activities. The LSRP will also place a special focus on
                the harmonization o f legislation impeding accessible justice to the poor and the
                disadvantaged such as women, children and disabled persons. Key legislation
                will be identified, prioritized andreviewedthrough a consultative process.

       (ii) Strengthened capacity for research and studies of the national legal
                framework.       The Law Reform Commission o f Tanzania (LRCT) will be
                strengthened in the following areas: (i)  to undertake technical studies; and (ii)to
                establish a continuous and sustainable mechanism for reviewing the national laws
                through participatory processes. The ERCT will also redesign cost effective
                legislative processing mechanisms and ensure quality and relevance o f
                bills/regulations/orders. The LRCT will establish mechanisms for collaborative
                studies with legal training institutions. This will ensure broader participation and
                collaboration to the development o f the national legal framework and other legal
                developments.

Implementation o f this sub-component will contribute to removing overlapping mandates. It will
seek to enhance the independence and autonomy o f legal and judicial institutions, speed up
disposition o f commercial and other disputes and improve the business environment thus
contributing to equitable opportunity to participate ineconomic activities.
Sub-component 2: Increased access to justice for the poor and disadvantaged - US$ 8.3
million

The LSRP will seek to improve access to justice particularly for the poor and disadvantaged by
establishing a case flow management system for primary courts; putting in clear guidelines for
handling special cases; promoting the development o f legal aid centers and paralegals;
translating legal information into Kiswahili, Braille, and others; and developing the primary
court system infrastructure (rehabilitation and construction).

Inthis context, the key outcomes to be achieved and activities to be carried out under this key
result area include:

        (i)     Improved access to justice for disadvantaged persons. The LSRP aims at
                improving existing systems for managing cases at primary and district courts
                through establishing case flow management committees at primary courts and

                                                - 10-


               strengthening existing ones at higher level courts.       Within this context, the
               program will establish guidelines to handle special cases for disadvantaged
               groups. Through the LSRP judicial personnel will be trained on speedy
               dispensation o f justice.      Funding will also be available to train justice
               administrators.

        (ii)   Enhancedlegal aidfor disadvantagedand poor persons and disseminationof
               legal information. The LSRP will support the design and implementation o f a
               well regulated and managed program to monitor and promote expansion o f the
               legal aid institutions network. The coverage o f the legal aid network will be
               expanded over a large part of rural Tanzania and thus will help improve access to
               justice by the poor and other disadvantaged groups. This includes the translation
               and printing o f high priority basic statutes and legal information in Braille and
               Kiswahili, and other activities for dissemination o f legal information. The LSRP
               will fbnd the : (a) preparation o f specific guidelines related to the handling of
               cases for disadvantaged groups, (b) establishment codes o f conduct and standards
               o f practice; (c) revision o f the syllabus and curriculum for training paralegals,
               and (d) expansion o fthe legal aid literacy network.

        (iii)  Improvedaccess to justice inthe ruralareas. Underthe Quick Start Project the
               participation o f local government authorities (LGAs) and local communities in
               improving judiciary infrastructure for enhanced access and quality justice in the
               rural areas was piloted.      Under the LSRP, links with LGAs to support the
               effective construction,      rehabilitation and maintenance o f primary court
               infrastructure will be enhanced.

Implementation o f this KRA will contribute to an increased number o f citizens who understand
their legal rights and obligations, equitable distribution o f primary courts and magistrates and
reduction o fthe backlog o f cases inthe courts.
Sub-component 3: Improved governance and administrative justice - US$ 7.9 million

The LSRP will support implementation o f the NACSAP in its fight against corruption
specifically in legal and judicial institutions by enhancing transparency in the administration o f
justice through the following interventions:

        (i) Enhancedgoodgovernanceinlegavjudicialinstitutions. Theprogramwill
                support the implementation o f the institutional strengthening strategies spelled out
               in the NACSAP. These include: (a) promoting practical use of client service
                charters in service delivery in legal and judicial institutions; (b) simplifying
                service delivery procedures; (c) undertaking awareness programs for the general
               public in collaboration with the information education and communication unit o f
               the MJCA on client service charters and delivery o f services by legal/judicial
               institutions; and (d) creating a mechanism for lodging complaints against the
               misuse o f power or unethical conduct by legal institutions personnel. The LSRP
               will finance the design and implementation o f a computerized complaints
               management system and client service charters for legal andjudicial institutions.

                                                - 11-



       (ii) Coordinatedandorganizedadministrativejusticesystem. Theprogramwill
               help develop a basic set o f procedures for administrative tribunals including ward
               tribunals; identify priority needs for enhancing timely justice by administrative
               tribunals with a view to promoting effective decision-making; and establishing a
               monitoring mechanism for the administrative justice system. This will include
               assessing the efficacy of establishing an administrative appellate body.

Implementation of this sub-component will contribute to reduced incidences o f corrupt practices
inlegal andjudicial institutions as reported inthe NACSAP quarterly reports and improvements
inthe quality of services delivered.

Sub-component 4: Improved skills and knowledge of legalprofessionals - US$ 7.8 million

The LSRP will strive to improve the quality o f legal andjudicial services in line with the needs
o f an increasing market-oriented economy by strengthening knowledge and skills o f legal
professionals. This will be achieved through a standardized and regulated training program and
well established institutional mechanisms. The key outcomes and activities under this KRA are:

        (0     Quality legal training by legal education and training institutions delivered.
               The program will enhance the effectiveness o f the Council for Legal Education
               (CLE) incontrolling the quality o f legal training and education inthe country by:
               (a) establishing a full-time secretariat, independent from the judiciary, supported
               by necessary technical, human and financial resources; (b) designing national
               curricula for legal training institutions to improve the quality o f legal training for
               all requisite qualifications; and (c) designing and implementing specialized
               training programs for legal andjudiciary support staff.

        (ii) Improved practical skills training for law graduates.               The program will
               support the establishment o f a law school, initially using temporary premises
               underthe auspices ofthe CLE andthereafter constructingpermanentpremises for
               the law school. The school will provide a structured practical training program to
               law graduates from both public and private universities leading to bar
               examinations. The program will also assess the feasibility o f creating two distinct
               categories o f legal practitioners, namely, advocates and solicitors, to cope with the
               diversified demands for legal services in the country. The LSRP will fund the
               construction and equipping o f the law school and training o f staff in specialized
               areas.

        (iii) Improvedcapacitytooffercontinuingeducationprograms.Theprogramwill
               strengthen the capacity o f legal training institutions to provide continuing legal
               education for professional and non-professional staff. Use will be made o f the
               results of a training needs assessment that has been conducted in the Faculties o f
               Law o f the University o f Dar es Salaam, University o f Mzumbe, the Open
               University o f Tanzania, and the Institute o f Judicial Administration (IJA) in
               Lushoto.

                                                 - 12-


Implementation of this key result area will contribute to an increased number and quality o f law
graduates and diversified legal services available to meet the needs o f the citizens. This will lead
to an increased number o f qualified primary court magistrates and continuous quality
improvements inthe legal professionto cope with changes inthe socio-economic environment.

Sub-component 5: Improved service delivery capacity in key legal institutions - US$ 38.2
million

The objective o f this sub-component is to develop the capacity o f key legal and judicial
institutions to provide high quality services by enhancing their management and coordination,
improving the competence, motivation and integrity o f their personnel, and upgrading their work
environment. The key outcomes and activities are:

         (i>    Improved organization and support services for effective service delivery.
                The LSRP, in collaboration with the BEST program, will promote specialization
                inthe court system by expanding the commercial division of the High Court, the
                Govemment-funded Land Court division and improving the legal registries. The
                program also envisages the installation o f an integrated management information
                system for legal andjudicial institutions to promote their effective communication
                and management.

         (ii) Enhancedcompetence,motivationandintegrityofpersonnel. Theprogram,
                in collaboration with PO-PSM, will strengthen meritocratic human resources
                systems in legal sector institutions, including training administrative staff in legal
                andjudicial institutions inperfonnance management. Inaddition, support will be
                provided to assess the mechanisms for attracting, retaining and motivating legal
                and judicial staff as a particular area o f concern to the public service.
                Recommendations on appropriate incentives to address this problem would be
                made to PO-PSM.

         (iii) Improvedworkingenvironment. Theprogramwillsupporttheretoolingofthe
                law libraries, publication o fthe Tanzania Law Reports and the preparation o f case
                digests. The program will support the construction and equipping o f a new Court
                o f Appeal building, rehabilitation or construction o f priority zonal high court
                centers, resident magistrates',     district and primary courts' infi-astructure.
                Appropriate strategies for improving office accommodation facilities at the zonal
                chambers o f the Attorney-General will be developed. In collaboration with the
                BEST program, the LSRP will expand the Business Registration and Licensing
                Agency (BRELA) services to the regional level.

For all the infrastructure activities, there would be an agreement between GOTand DPs on high
priority civil works to be funded based on the availability o f government budget to share the
costs o f construction and for budgeting for the operations and maintenance o f the new and
rehabilitated facilities. This would be discussed during the joint GoT/DP annual reviews of
plans and budgetfor the LSRP.

                                              - 13 -

Implementation of this KRA will contribute to improved legal registry and law library services,
expanded access to commercial and land courts and a better working environment for judges and
state attorneys. These changes will facilitate the handling o f cases by the judiciary, increased
access to commercial and land courts and better quality, overall, o f legal andjudicial services.
Sub-component 6: Program management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation (US$
3.4 million)

The objective o f this sub-component i s to promote cohesion, collaboration and coordination
among legal sector institutions to allow effective and efficient implementation o f the Medium
Term Strategy. The key outcomes and activities are:

               Effective implementationof reforms by legal and judicial institutions. The
               program will support the development o f staff skills, knowledge and provide the
               necessary tooldsystems in the LSRP implementing institutions to enable them to
               strengthen their capacity for implementation.      These institutions will also be
               helped to develop their strategic plans and annual work plans and budgets with a
               view to incorporating objectives o f the LSRP in these plans and budget.
               Activities will aim at developing their capacity for strategic planning.

               Effective management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.                   The
               program will establish mainstreamed management, coordination, monitoring, and
               evaluation mechanisms in each o f the implementing institutions that are in line
               with existing organizational structures. Each lead implementing agency will be
               accountable for effective implementation o f specific activities and key result
               areadsub-components.

               Enhanced policy and strategic leadership in legal and judicial institutions.
               Policy coordination in the legal and judicial institutions will be enhanced by the
                drafting a policy to improve coordination o f legal andjudicial institutions. This
               policy will provide a framework to ensure that individual institutions' policies are
                aligned with the overall legal sector policy for coordination. The program will
                also strengthenevidence-based policy-making inthe legal andjudicial institutions
                and capacity development for policy research.

                Enhanced information, communication and education regarding the legal
                sector reformsanddevelopment. The programwill establish an IECprogram to
                inform the public about the legal and judicial reforms undertaken under LSW.
                The IEC program will also seek to involve the people inproviding feedback on
                the reform activities and outcomes. This will help implementing agencies make
                improvements and adjustments in the design and implementation approaches.
                The IEC program will be implemented through multiple media channels and
               physical outreach activities.

                Enhanced capacities for change management in legal and judicial
                institutions. Legal and judicial systems and institutions are fairly complex in
               nature and require an effective system to bring about the changes necessary for
                the reform process.    The program will build the capacity o f staff in lead

                                             - 14-


               implementingagencies in change management to enable them to champion the
               reform program. Change management skills are essential to ensure the reforms
               take off, build momentum inthe shortest time possible and are well organized to
               achieve the desiredoutcomes.

Implementation o f this sub component will result in effective and efficient communication o f the
reform programs within legal andjudicial institutions and with the public at large, and improved
capacity o f legal and judicial staff to implement the program.      It will also result in better
monitoring and evaluation o f the program results.
Component2: Enhancingpublic financialaccountability-US$ 68.9 million (of which US$
10.0 millionis funded by IDA)

ATP will support the implementation o f the Public Financial Management Reform Program
(PFMRP) in collaboration with other DPs through a pooled funding SWAP arrangement. The
PFMRP's main goal i s to improve the management o f public financial resources for economic
growth, public service delivery and poverty reduction. The PFMRP aims at improving the
strategic orientation o f the MoF to provide leadership in implementing public financial
management across government and ensure its efforts are coordinated with other reform
programs and sector initiatives. Implementation o f the PFMRP will contribute to an enhanced
capacity o f M o F to manage public financial resources in an effective, transparent and
accountable manner and associated improvements in the MDAs public financial management
capacity. It will also help strengthen the capacity o f N A O to perform its oversight functions.
The PFMRP strategic plan draws on the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and the IMF's Report on Observance o f
Standards and Codes (ROSC) analyses and recommendations.

The PFMRP includes the following sub-components referred to as "key strategic goals" in the
PFMRP strategic document:
Sub-Component 1: Improved Capacity in the MoF for sound macroeconomic and fiscal
management (US$6.6million)

One o f the PFMRP's objectives is to ensure the medium-term stability o f the country's
macroeconomic framework. This strategic goal aims at improving the capacity o f M o F to
develop macroeconomic and fiscal policy that will provide for the improved decision-making
requiredto preserve a stable macroeconomic framework. PFMRP will buildthe capacity o f MoF
inmacroeconomic management, fiscal policy management and will strengthen the institutional
framework for debt management. This will be achieved by improving staff skills in policy
analysis, monitoring and economic forecasting. The program will also provide forecasting tools
and strengthen the institutional mechanism for monitoring, reporting and for stakeholder
consultation.

Funds will be provided under the program for building a robust macroeconomic and fiscal
model, institutionalizing dialogue processes with stakeholders, and implementing the new debt
strategy.

                                                - 15-


Implementation of the activities under this sub-component will contribute to improved policy
analysis inthe M O F and well informed decision-making on fiscal policy and debt management.
It will also contribute to a more inclusive fiscal policy through stakeholders' consultations thus
strengthening domestic accountability.
Sub-Component 2: Devolved decision-making and accountability for resources to MDAs
(USS26.0 million)

This sub-component seeks to (i)  improve the capacity o f MDAs inpublic financial management,
and (ii)ensure that MDAs are accountable for the public financial resources they manage.

Under the PSRP and the Local Government Reform Program (LGRP), MDAs and LGAs,
respectively, have been empowered to manage for results within a resource-constrained
environment. To complement these reform programs, the PFMRP aims to relax the control that
currently restricts accounting officers from transferring funds from one budget line to another
within their respective votes. The program will consolidate and build on the gains made from
the implementation o f the integrated financial management system (IFMS), which is already
functional in MDAs, to expand the system's functionality to facilitate MDAs' and LGAs'
management to better focus on results including support for the adoption in the long-term o f
accruals accounting.

The PFMRP will: deepen capability o f internal audit at ministries, departments and agencies
(MDAs)-level; enhance the demand for financial management information; and strengthen
financial management capacity through the development o f a cohort o f financial management
professionals. These professionals will have the appropriate blend o f experience and skills.
Also, given the strategic imperative to implement a solid policy and strategy for fiscal
decentralization, the program will support the monitoring o f the intergovernmental transfers
system.

To achieve the above, the program will support the expansion o f the IFMS functionality to
enable accrual accounting and interface with the macro-fiscal and debt management systems.
Fundingwill also be provided to establish benchmarks for financial and performance reports in
MDAs, operationalize MDAs' internal audit committees, prepare a curriculum and train non-
finance andfinance personnel including public financial management professionals.

Implementation o f activities under this sub-component will contribute to improving resource
allocation inline with sector priorities thus influencing improvements in service delivery. It will
also leadto a more accountable public financial management system.

Sub-Component 3: Improvedpredictability of resources to MDAs (US$2.9 million)

This sub-component aims to improve the predictability o f resource flows by strengthening
linkages among the MTEF, MKUKUTA and poverty monitoring system (PMS). These linkages
will provide a basis for promoting a more systematic process for resource planning and
prioritization needed to achieve policy objectives and desired results. The PFMRP will also
focus on capturing all development assistance channelled directly to projects and programs in

                                              - 16-


GOT'Sbudget and accounting framework. In tandem, the PFMRP will deepen stakeholders'
understandingand ability to appreciate the budgetprocess and its results.

The program has funded the design and'implementation o f a management information system
(MIS) for external assistance that i s easily accessible and facilitates planning and decision-
making. It has also funded the design and implementation o f an institutional mechanism for
deepening stakeholder understanding and ability to implement the external assistance strategy.
Based on positive results in implementing these activities, GOTwould, in the long-term, phase
out the current cash budget system.       Another expected long-term result will be zero or
insignificant differences inthe MDAs' and LGAs' budget allocations and actual expenditures.

Implementation of activities under this strategic goal will improve the predictability o f the
budget through a more informed and inclusive budget process. Furthermore, inclusion o f all
external resources in the budget process will improve the comprehensiveness o f the budget as a
tool for resources allocation.    This strategic goal will contribute to improvements in the
accountability o f external assistance funds and improved resources allocation in line with the
country's priorities.

Sub-Component 4: Enhanced value for money (VFM) in the use of public resources (US$
21.0 million)

This sub-component will help ensure that the budget i s strategically oriented towards the
achievement o f the intendedpolicy results and achieving value for money. Particular emphasis
will be placed on improving the procurement and audit functions. A key imperative is to steer
public service managers towards a more strategic orientation in the use o f public resources. In
particular, in the medium-term, the existing information system will be further customised to
enable enhanced budget analysis. Furthermore, the PFMRP will spearhead the redesign o f the
budgeting and reporting processes to enhance their results orientation. Specifically, this
intervention will contribute to ensuring that the MTEF supports Government in attaining
efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery.    Also, during budget implementation, the
program will, through a combination o f monitoring at MDA level, public expenditure reviews
(PERs), VFM audits and overhauled procurement systems engender an ethos o f accountability
for procuring resources under the most cost-effective terms; delivering maximum outputs from
planned activities and associated inputs; and achieving outcomes specified at each MDA's,
LGA's and program planningstage. A key anticipated long-term result will be minimal or zero
losses resulting from public procurement.

The program will support the review and modification o f budget databases, strengthening o f
institutional arrangements for budget management including integration o f human resources
planning with overall personnel expenditure budget, and the rolling-out o f participatory planning
and budgeting guidelines to LGAs. The program will support the new institutional framework
for procurement, including the design and implementation o f a system for monitoring and
evaluating procurement in MDAs. In addition, the program will finance support to NAO to
institutionalizeVFM audits.

                                              - 17-

Implementation o f activities under this strategic goal will support the effective use o f public
financial resources in a more transparency manner, inline with public financial management and
procurement regulations. This is expected to contribute to improvements in accountability and a
reduction inmisspending and procurement losses.
Sub-Component 5: Reduced dependency on externalfinancing (US$2.6 million)

The objective o f this sub-component i s to improve the management o f external funds to ensure
they contribute effectively to national economic development.      A key perspective shared by
stakeholders i s that ten years from now Tanzania will be less dependent on external financing.
The PFMRP will support improvements inthe effective management o f external financing, with
a view to promoting aid coordination and harmonization under the draft joint assistance strategy
(JAS). This will include advocating for aid principles that support Tanzania's development
priorities including untied aid, ensuring the predictability o f aid flows, and reducing parallel
systems and structures for implementing development projects. The program will emphasize
directing aid utilisation to the most productive investments and reducing debt servicing to
sustainable levels. In addition, it will support the enhanced mobilisation o f domestic resources
bybroadening GOT'Stax base and at the same time ensuring its simplicity and equitability. This
will implyrationalizationof the tax exemptions regime inorder to widenthe domestic tax base.

Under the program, the MoF will lead the prioritizing, coordinating and managing o f external
financing and inrationalizing the tax exemption regime thus supporting effective use o f external
assistance funds inline with the country priorities.


Sub-Component 6: Capacity for sustained improvements in management and program
implementation (US$9.8 million)

This sub-component seeks to strengthen the leadership, management and monitoring and
evaluation capacity o f the MoF to implement the PFMRP. The program will seek to effect
changes in the organizational culture o f the MOF and in the implementing MDAs. In this
respect, the program will endeavour to enhance strategic leadership; consult internal and external
stakeholders; conduct IEC campaigns; inform and fine tune the PFMRP by adopting an M&E
framework; introduce needs-based human resource capacity development interventions; utilize
more effectively management information systems, including Information Technology (IT); and
promote a culture of ethics, integrity and accountability.

Implementation o f the activities under this strategic goal will support the mainstreaming o f the
PFMRP activities within the MOF and MDA functions and contribute to an inclusive, effective
and accountable implementation o fthe program.

                                                        - 1 8 -


Component3: Strengtheningoversight andwatchdog institutions(OWIs)-US$4.6 million
(of which US$4.6 millionis fundedby IDA)

A T P will support the strengthening o f oversight and watchdog institutions (OWIS)' to improve
domestic accountability, particularly with respect to the crosscutting reforms, i.e., LSRP,
PFMRP, PSRP and NACSAP. This program aims at ensuring that OWIs are well informed o f
public sector performance and hence more effectively able hold government accountable by
interventions aimed at: (i)      generating and disseminating highquality information on performance
and outcomes o f government, centered on the crosscutting reforms; (ii)                improving the ethical
environment inboththe public and private sectors by supporting improvement inthe capacity o f
professional organizations to raise the level o f ethics o f their members using self-regulatory
ethics mechanisms, continuing education programs and, more broadly, IEC programs aimed at
the public at large; and (iii)       generally improving the capacity o f OW1 staff to perform their
functions.

OWIs that will potentially benefit from this component include state oversight institutions such
as Parliament and its committees, the PCB, and non-state actors such as professional
associations, the media and civil society organizations.

Sub-component 1: Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency                         -  IDA US$ 4.0
million

To achieve the above objective, a flexible Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency
(FEAT) will be established and housed within the ES. The funds will be available on a demand-
driven basis for activities related to the above objectives. FEAT activities will be coordinated
with other development partner programs through the DP accountable governance working
group. Although other DPs have been supporting OWIs, their activities are still insufficient to
warrant the establishment o f a pooled funding mechanism at this stage. This could be reviewed
duringthe mid-term review.

Generation and dissemination of quality information. The FEAT will support OWIs in
generating data, including statistics and other types o f information that confirm results o f
government policies and initiatives in all the crosscutting reform areas. It will also fund civil
society organizations' (CSOs) activities to disseminate the findings from studies and other key
government accountability documents such as the N A O report. This is expected to increase
public awareness of the reforms, lead to effective dialogue between informed OWIs and GOTin
domestic policy-making processes and build domestic accountability. It will also fund capacity
development o f OW1 staff to improve their skills related to their functions as oversight and
watchdogs. This will include targeted short-term training programs locally and within the Africa
regionthat are aimed at improving the performance o f OWIs indomestic accountable activities.

Improvement in the ethics of members of professionalassociations. The FEAT will support
capacity development of professional associations to promote ethics amongst their members and
thereby influencing the quality o f ethics in the public service. Professional associations will be


 OWIs are defined to include state oversight institutions such as Parliament, PCB, NAO, the Ethics Secretariat as
well as non-state actors such as the media and civil society organizations.

                                                      - 19-

supported to implement self-regulatory mechanisms and development programs for their
members. The funds could also be used for IEC and M&E activities related to the roles and
responsibilities of professional associations. Depending on the level o f development o f the
respective professional associations, the nature o f support is likely to differ and could include
helping them develop as associations. The program will also support capacity development
programs for professionals as groups that aim at improving the ethical dimensions o f the
respective professions based on the identifiedneeds within the context o f associations.

The ES will oversee the use o f the Facility. It will be reporting to a high-level technical steering
committee chaired by the Ethics Commissioner that will approve applications to the FEAT. To
reduce the possibility that the funds will be captured by a specific agency the technical steering
committee will include members from (i)the Government, i.e., Head o f GGCU, Director o f
Ethics (PO-PSM), registrar o f non-governmental organizations (NGOs); (ii)                 non-governmental
sector-one from the NGO council and one from the Tanzania Business Council. The executive
secretary o f the ES would be a non-voting member andhonorary secretary to the Committee.

To ensure that all activities to be funded are in line with ATP's objectives, the FEAT manual
will have criteria for institutional as well as activity eligibility. Institutions that will be eligible
for funding will need to show evidence o f their status as non-profit NGOs. They should have
been registered at least for one year and with audited accounts and financial statements. They
should also be able to contribute at least 10% o f the activity costs in cash or in kind. Political
parties, firms and individuals will not be eligible for funding.

FEAT will fund activities that seek to achieve the ATP's development objective and that
address the information gap or seek to improve the ethics environment in the country as
mentioned above. Specific eligible and ineligible activities are reflected in table 1 below. A
more comprehensive list o f criteria and modalities to access the facility will be included in the
Operations Manual. The grant amounts will vary from a minimumo f $10,000 to a maximum o f
$500,000. For grants above US$ 100,000, the FEAT management will provide IDA with all
relevant details o f the request for no-objection. These funds will be disbursed in at least two
tranches.    Disbursement will be based on satisfactory submission o f financial and physical
progress reports. Successful OWIs will sign a grant agreement that will give the Secretariat the
rightto suspend or cancel disbursements where funds are not usedfor the intendedpurposes.

Table 1:Eligiblehneligible activitiesunder the FEAT sub-component

                Eligible interventions                                   Ineligible interventions

Interventions that are eligible for FEAT financing shouldFEAT is not to be used for investments where the
support capacity buildinginthe respective organizations   contributions to capacity improvements are not readily
to enhance oversight capabilities or ethical environment  demonstrable. These include:
inthe public sector, whichmayinclude:
                                                                   Investment incommercial ventures.
    Technical support at all stages o f the development
    o f the participating organization's strategic plans,          The purchase o f motor vehicles.
    annual work plans, monitoring and implementation
    plans.                                                         Civil works.
    Specific training activities within Tanzania or

                                                       - 20 -

   Africa     region   (or   elsewhere    with   detailed      General administrative expenditures.
   justificationl) related to improving the quality o f
   information produced, disseminated and used.                 Salaries or salaries enhancement and
   Activities with funding committed from other                remunerative allowances.
   sources, demonstrating how FEAT will contribute
   to achievingthe objectives o fthe activities.               Activities with full funding committed from
   FEAT will only support incremental results-oriented          other sources.
   investments.     This will include,     for  instance,
   resources required to re-engineer processes; to put         Re-tooling that i s more than 15 per cent o f the
   in place systems for monitoring and evaluation;             budget requested.
   and/or to foster organizational learning inOWIs.
   Re-tooling o f participating organizations to improve        Activities related to human rights, police,
   both working facilities and environment in the              prosecution or prisons or political advocacy.
   context o f improving oversight and watchdog
   capabilities and activities.                                Activities with a financing gap.
   Support to the rationalization o f OWIs' roles and
   functions.                                                   Repeater activities whose predecessor did not
   Support work aimed at promoting governance with              achieve the desired objectives or did not meet
   respect to the activities o f the ATIP including the         the fiduciary requirements o f the FEAT.
   monitoring and evaluation o f service delivery by
   beneficiaries, civil society groups and the private
   sector.
   Activities above for which the organization does not
   have access to another primary source o f funds.



Implementation o f the activities under this component will contribute to strengthened capacity o f
OWIs to perform their roles with respect to improving access to legal and judicial services and
accountability inmanagement o fpublic funds.

The Bank would review the implementationo f this component approximately 12-18 months after
the first disbursementswith a view to assess the demand for the FEAT. Since the facility is an
innovative approach it will be important to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the
mechanism in order to make the necessary adjustments to improve its operations or to consider
scaling up the FEAT by adding the necessary funds should there be high demand for the facility.
At the time, the Bank would discuss with GOTthe possibility o f moving to a pooled fund
arrangement for the FEAT should there be interest from other DPs.

Sub-component 2: Ethics Secretariat Capacity Building IDA US$0.6 million
                                                                 -

The ES as an OW1will not be eligible for FEAT funding, therefore Project funds will be directed
separately to support its institutional strengthening. A budget o f $600,000 would be set aside for
that purpose. Support to the ES will be related to achieving the objectives o f the FEAT and o f
the ES action plan. The ES will be strengthened to enable it to host the FEAT through the
recruitment o fkey staff andby funding incremental operational costs. The Secretariat, as host o f
the FEAT, will not be one o f the beneficiaries o f the fund. Therefore, the ES will receive
funding to disseminate widely the "rules o f the game" o f the FEAT and to systematically collect
and disseminate the lessons learned and good practices. The ES will also be supported to create
more awareness o fthe importance o f ethical behavior within the general population. The ES will

                                                - 21 -

receive technical support to set up the FEAT and strengthengenerally its capacity to perform an
improved role with respect to ethics within the public service.

Component 4: Project Coordination US$ 0.6 million (of which US$ 0.4 millionis funded
                                         -
by IDA)

To ensure overall coordination o f the activities related to improving accountability, transparency
and integrity and, more particularly, monitoring progress o f the fight against corruption and
improvement ingood governance, support will be provided to the GGCUto help the unit achieve
the objectives o f its action plan.

A T P will provide support to GGCU to improve its M&E capacity including reporting on and
disseminating the overall results o f the NACSAP. The GGCU will have overall responsibility
for coordinating and for overseeing the monitoring and evaluation o f the ATP.                  The
interventions and activities under this component generally reflect strengthening and facilitating
the GGCU to better perform its core roles and functions, which are: (i) coordination o f
                                                                             overall
good governance programs, especially the NACSAP; and (ii)high level M&E, including
reporting to the Presidenton progress o f implementation o fthe anti-corruption measures.

Support will also beprovided to review, ifnecessary, the institutional structure o f GOTto combat
corruption with the objective o f delineating clear mandates and fostering greater collaboration
among institutions. Under the PRBSPRSCPRSL policy dialogue, there is a general agreement
between government and DPs that a stronger dialogue should be established around good
governance as a key pillar o f the MKUKUTA. The understanding i s that a broadpolicy dialogue
similar to the one instituted for SWAPSshould be established for anti-corruption. Support to the
GGCU would help concretize this agreement by providing the funds necessary to launch the
process and put in place the mechanisms for dialogue and to improve coordination within
government, and gradually, between GOTand its domestic constituency. Further, the GGCU
would be strengthened to collect and disseminate information to the public and to undertake
performance reviews o f anti-conuption activities.

A T P will also support information, communication and education (IEC) activities. Inthe first
two components of ATIP, a balance will be struck between sensitization activities for civil
servants and outreach activities for the general public. Emphasis will also be put on getting
feedback from beneficiaries and using it to modify the communication strategy, as needed.
Overall, IEC activities will focus on creating and sustaining a symmetrical information
environment that will enhance the potential for decentralization, good governance, transparency
and accountability. These activities will sensitize the range o f stakeholders about the project's
overall philosophy and methodology, the objectives and rationale o f the components, outline the
complementary roles and responsibilities o f the various actors and build a knowledge base o f
lessons learned. In the interest o f sustainability, they will seek to build a strategic development
partnership between government officials, NGOs, communities and the private sector by
empowering populations intheir interactions with public institutions.

                                                 - 22 -

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe projectdesign

ATP's design takes into account experiences learned from past World Bank and other
development partner projects in Tanzania, other developing countries and transition economies
inpublic financial management, legal andjudicial reform and support to oversight andwatchdog
institutions. It also draws from analytical studies carried out by the Bank staff inthe preparation
o f this project, government and other development partner agencies. These include the CPAR,
CFAA, PEFAR, political economy study, SIDA Power Analysis and DFID's Drivers o f Change
studies and a stakeholders' workshop that focused on issues related to accountability,
transparency and integrity. Lessons learned include:

         (i)     Stakeholder consensus on the project objectives and indicators.        The project
                 components have been based on analytical work and have been discussed at
                 length with key stakeholders.        The respective objectives and perfonnance
                 indicators have been agreed by the main stakeholders. This consultative process
                 will help strengthen the results focus by ensuring that key implementing
                 institutions focus on project outcomes. A specific session on M&E enabled some
                 participants to appreciate that the results framework o f the three components will
                 need to be adjusted to reflect agreement between government and DPs in the
                 context o f the SWAPSo f prioritized results and indicators to be met on an annual
                 basis.

         (ii)    The need for a coordinated approach within and among the respective reform
                 programs.     Recent assessments o f the cross-cutting reform programs raised
                 concerns about whether the current government coordination arrangements offer a
                 credible basis for driving forward harmonized and sequenced LSRP, PFMRP,
                 PSRP and LGRP. Recognition o f the interdependencies among cross-cutting
                 reform programs and linkages with sector development programs provides the
                 basis for a coherent approach and more sustainable outcomes. ATP i s embedded
                 in the Government's holistic framework for building good governance.           The
                 proposedcoordination arrangements at the GGCU level would strengthen the link
                 between the anti-corruption drive and other supporting organizational and
                 institutional reforms.

         (iii)   Strengthening the demand-side o f the accountability equation is crucial.       The
                 analytical work on the political economy and governance environment in
                 Tanzania points to the need to strengthenthe demand-side o f accountability. The
                 political economy study o f Tanzania (2005) inparticular indicated that Tanzania's
                 strong executive branch needs to be counterbalanced by equally strong legislative
                 and judiciary branches. It also pointed out that much work needs to be done to
                 provide quality information to citizens and to ensure that citizens understand their
                 roles and in responsibilities with regard to the state's performance. In addition,
                 lessons learnt from the Tanzania Financial and Legal Management Upgrading
                 Project (FILMUP) reflect on the positive contribution the National Board o f
                 Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) has provided in the improvement o f
                 accounting standards and thereby contributing to accountability, transparency and

                                              - 23 -


             integrity in workplace.       To increase the capacity o f stakeholders in the
              accountability processes, and therefore achieve timely and sustainable outcomes,
             it is important to strengthen the OWIs and civil society organizations that promote
             demand for public accountability.       This will be achieved through the third
             component o fATIP.

       (iv)  The need for an effective M&E system. Without an effective M&E system, it i s
              difficult to assess whether a program i s going to meet its objectives within the
              agreed period and within the agreed budget or whether there i s a need to adjust its
             trajectory.     Thinking through the results framework upfront also supports
              developing more appropriate interventions to achieve the planned outcomes. In
             the absence o f a results framework and indicators, there i s a limited objective
             basis to provide for accountability to project beneficiaries. Therefore M&E has
             been embedded in the government's reforms supported by ATIP and i s also
             included inthe strengtheningo f the M&E function o f the GGCU. It i s recognized
             that there i s limited capacity for M&E within government, and that there are few
             institutions that can impart that capacity locally. It will take time and effort to
              develop an M&E capacity.

       (v)    The value o f effective IEC interventions. Besides implementingthe actions that
              contribute directly to the project outputs, it i s beneficial with respect to both the
              accountability for and sustainability o f the project outcomes to have regular
              communication with the beneficiaries to inform and educate them on the
              objectives o f GOTreform programs. Similarly, a failure to listen to citizens and
              their views regarding the performance indelivering services means that it i s more
              difficult to adjust and provide the services that are valued by citizens.        IEC
              activities and measures help deepen domestic accountability. IEC, as a feature,
              runs through ATIP and will link to similar systems that are being established for
              other core reform programs.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection

The following alternatives were considered andrejected:

       (i)    Provide funds through GeneralBudget Support (GBS). The option o f Bank
              funding for ATIP through the general budget support was considered, especially
              because the GOT has clearly stated its preference for this modality o f
              development assistance. However, the sector programs that ATP i s supporting
              (LSRP, PFMRP and the NACSAP) have not achieved the maturity o f policy
              dialogue and articulation o f strategies and priorities in the planning and budget
              processes that would enable them to claim the neededresources for their reforms
              through the general stream o f resources allocation. Thus Government and DPs
              have for now agreed that development assistance to the LSRP and the PFMRP
              will be through investment support under a SWAP pooled fund arrangement. The
              Bank will harmonize its support to the sectors with that o f other DPs by
              participating in these SWAP arrangements.          During the mid-term review, the

                                                - 24 -


               Bank would assess what would be needed for the program to be supported
                through the GBS duringa subsequent phase.

        (ii) Multiple capacity building projects. This approach does not appear to
                correspond to the Government's comprehensive and holistic approach as reflected
                inthe NFGGandwould impose an additional burdenon an already overstretched
                capacity in GOTto coordinate coherently all interventions in the area o f good
                governance.      The alternative approach would be fragmented and lacking in
                strategic perspective. There would be loss o f synergy in the implementation o f a
                series o f disjointed projects and it would be more difficult to focus on integrated
                results. Furthermore, in the preferred harmonized framework, the capacity o f
                Government will be strengthenedto coordinate the support o f the various DPs in
                these important areas.

        (iii) Supply-drivencapacitybuildingsupporttoOWIs. Thiswasrejectedfortwo
                reasons. Firstly, the actual needs and inputs for capacity building are likely to
                differ considerably between the various target organizations.        Therefore, an
                attempt to predict the support needed at this stage could ultimately undermine the
                efficacy o f the component's implementation. Second, a supply-driven approach
                usually fails to develop and test the sense o f ownership and commitment on the
                part o f the beneficiary institutions. These are considered crucial to attain and
                sustain the outcomes o f A T P . The approach was put forward by the Government
                with a view to giving an opportunity to organizations that are committed to the
                objectives o f improving accountability throughout and outside the government as
                a means to broadening access to funds to organizations that could be left out
                otherwise.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

A T P design takes into account the GOTpolicy on development assistance that is presented in
the draft JAS. The JAS is a GOT-led initiative that provides a guiding framework for DPs in
funding the MKUKUTA. The key principles o f the JAS include harmonization o f DPs'
processes to reduce transaction costs to GOT,untied support to capacity building and division,
mainstreaming o f project implementationwithin GOTsystems and procedures inorder to ensure
the sustainability o f development assistance. Although the JAS is still in a draft form, GOTand
DPs have already applied the principles to their collaboration.

The LSRP and PFMRP are designed as SWAP components to be funded through pooled funding.
A number of DPs organized through the Legal Sector Donor Group and the Public Financial
Management Donor Group have expressed interest in funding the two programs. These two
groups meet monthly and are part o f a wider governance working group (GWG) o f DPs with
counterpart groups within government. These DPs are also involved in the PRBSPRSCPRSL
that provides general budget support for implementing the MKUKUTA. Under this funding
modality, the partners carry out joint annual reviews to assess performance against an agreed set
o f actions and indicators.

                                              - 25 -


Within the context of these two groups, there is consensus amongst GOTand DPs to fund the
LSRP and the PFMRP under pooled funding arrangements in addition to other donors with
earmarked project funding. A total o f US$71.3 million has beencommitted by DPs and GOTfor
financing the LSW. Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Sweden and USAID will commit
US$ 32.3 millionwhile the IDA will commit US$25 million to the LSRP. With the exception o f
USAID, the other DPs including IDA will be channeling funds to the LSRP through the pooled
fundingarrangement. GOThascommittedUS$ 15 millionfrom its own funds for the LSRP.

The PFMRP is supported by several donors including the EU, Denmark and Norway who have
already signed the MoU and deposited funds into the pool. DFID and Japan, have also deposited
funds into the pool whereas the AfDB, Sweden, Switzerland and UNDP have been supporting
the PFMRP through direct support to some components, and they are currently considering the
possibility o fjoining the pool. DPs including IDAwill commit a total ofUS$ 57.3 million while
GOTcontribution to the PFMRPwill beUS$ 11.6 million.

IDA will provide US$ 4.0 million for improving the capacity o f OWIs, US$ 0.6 million for the
strengthening of the ES and $0.4 million for project coordination within the GGCU.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

There are two major considerations with respect to the definition o f the implementation
arrangements for ATIP. Firstly, two o f the project's components will support distinct SWAp-
based programs, Le., PFMRP and LSRP. For these two programs, Government and DPs have
already agreed to adopt a pooled fund modality, to which the Bank will subscribe. Thus funds
under components 1and 2 o f the ATIP will be disbursedto the LSRP and PFMRPpooled bank
account for each of the two programs. Secondly, the third and fourth components o f ATIP
(support to OWIs and coordination, M&E and IEC) will be implemented under a traditional
project-type modality.     Furthermore, the implementation arrangements for these latter two
components require particular attention because: (i) third component will be demand-driven
                                                     the
through the provision o f FEAT grants to eligible applicant OWIs; and (ii) overall project
                                                                             while
coordination under component 4 will be implemented by the GGCU in the President's Office,
Government has decided that the ES rather than GGCU should handle all funds under
Components 3 and 4.

Inthe context of the above, the key features of the implementation arrangements are described
underthe followingheadings:


    0  Pooled funding modality for components 1and 2
    0  Mainstreamedproject implementation
    0  LSRP institutional and implementation arrangements
    0  PFMRP institutional and implementation arrangements
    0  FEAT grant facility under component 3
    0  Component 4 institutional and implementation arrangements
    0  Coordination with other reform programs through the Inter-Ministerial Technical
       Committee (IMTC) and Inter-Ministerial WorkingGroup (IMWG).

                                                        - 26 -


Pooled funding modality for components 1 and 2. Project funds for the LSRP and PFMRP
components will be disbursed through a pooled fund account for each o f the components. For
this purpose, the Government and the pooled fund DPs have agreed on common coordination,
activity planning, disbursement, financial management, procurement and M&E arrangements
and procedures, as specified in MOUs for each program. The GOTand the participating DPs,
including the Bank, will review and endorse consolidated annual work plans and budgets for
each fiscal year detailing the eligible activities and budgets for each LSRP and PFMRP sub-
component as described in this PAD. The Bank has already reviewed the arrangements and
operational manuals for pooled hnding o f the LSRP and PFMRP and i s satisfied that these
comply with its fiduciary requirements (annexes 7 and 8). Thus, the Bank is prepared to join the
MOUfor the LSRP and, following some modifications, the M O Ufor the PFMRP.

Mainstreamed project implementation. There is no enclave project implementation unit for
any o f the project components. All activities under the LSRP and the PFMRP, as well as under
components 3 and 4, are being undertaken within the mainstreamed structures o f the relevant
MDAs. This implies full staffing o f the implementingagencies to enable them to implementthe
project efficiently and effectively. The Government has already initiated the appointment o fkey
staff to positions in the MJCA and the ES, and PO-PSM has confirmed its commitment to the
accelerating the staffing process. The respective implementing arrangements are detailed in
Annex 6.

LSRP institutionaland implementationarrangements. Because the LSRP involves multiple
legal and judicial institutions as program implementing agencies, its implementation
arrangements are based on the need for clearly assigned sub-component implementation
responsibilities as well as coherent overall program coordination.                              The overall LSRP
implementation i s coordinated by the MJCA. The assigned "lead implementing agencies" for
each LSRP sub-component, include the Law Reform Commission, the Court o f Appeal6, the
Commission for HumanRights and Good Governance, the Faculty o f Law (University o f Dar es
Salaam) and the MJCA. However, all institutions benefiting from the program are responsible
for the day-to-day implementation, reporting, monitoring, evaluation and communication o f their
respective program activities. These lead and other implementing agencies are listed inAnnex 6.

The mechanism for the joint GoTDP coordination o f the LSRP implementation is the Joint
(GOT and DPs) Implementation Program Steering Committee (JPRC). This committee i s the
main forum for policy and strategy dialogue between GOT and DPs. Once the pooled funding
for the program i s operational, the JIPRC will also approve funding and disbursements based on
satisfactory performance and agreed annual work plan and budget.                             There i s also a Policy
Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Justice, composed o f the chief executives o f all
implementing institutions and responsible for coordinating GOT'SLSRP policy guidance and
oversight. The detailed implementation arrangements o f the LSRP are documented in financial
management and procurement manual, and summarized in the LSRP MOU. A more detailed
description o fthese arrangements i s presented inAnnex 6.




 The use o f Judiciary inthis case refers to the Registrar of the Court o f Appeal, who i s the chief executive and
accounting officer o f all courts inTanzania.

                                              - 27 -


PFMRP institutionaland implementationarrangements. The PFMRP is coordinated by the
MoF. Other institutions involved inthe program implementation include the recently established
Public Procurement and Regulatory Agency (PPRA) and the National Audit Office (NAO). A
Joint (Government and DPs) Steering Committee i s inplace to provide policy, strategic oversight
and facilitate dialogue. The DeputyPermanent Secretary inthe MoF i s the Program Manager for
the PFMRP. There is also a full-time Program Coordinator who has been contracted to provide
technical support on program implementation. MoF's heads o f department, based on their
portfolio, are responsible for sub-components o f the program. Details o f the implementation
arrangements for the PFMRP are documented in an Operations Manual and highlighted in the
MOU entered into between Government and DPs.               An extended description o f these
arrangements is provided inAnnex 6.

FEAT grant facility under component 3. The third component o f ATP (strengthening o f
OWIs) will be managed by the ES, and funded through a designated account operated by the
Secretariat. An inter-agency committee (Technical Steering Committee) will be established to
approve applications for FEAT from the OWIs. The chairman of the ES will chair the proposed
committee. Other members o f the committee are likely to be from: (i) Government -Head
                                                                       the
o f GGCU, Director o f Ethics, PO-PSM and Registrar o f NGOs; (ii)  non-governmental sector -
a nominee from the NGO Council and a nominee from the Tanzania Business Council. The
Secretary o f the ES will be a non-voting member and honorary secretary to the Committee. A
draft operational manual has been prepared to guide the operations o f the FEAT and also the
users on accessing the fbnds. The Technical Steering Committee will ensure that FEAT
activities are carried out in accordance with the operational and financial manual.          The
Committee will enter into a grant agreement with each recipient OW1to ensure fiduciary control.
Day-to-day operations o f the FEAT will be carried out within a mainstreamed structure o f the
ES. Additional staff will be recruited to support implementation o f the FEAT. They will be
reporting to the Commissioner o f the ES, who i s the chief executive and accounting officer.
Since the ES will not have access to the FEAT even in its role as OWI, it will be facilitated to
access funding ($600,000) to strengthen its core functions, mainly to create more awareness o f
ethical values in the public service and also to inform and educate the public about the need to
have accountable leaders in key positions. Detailed implementation arrangements are provided
inAnnex 6.

Component 4 institutional and implementationarrangements. The implementation o f the
fourth component o f the A T P will be primarily the responsibility o f the GGCU.             The
interventions and activities under this component generally reflect strengthening and facilitating
the GGCU to better perform its core roles and functions, which are: (i)   overall coordination o f
good governance programs, especially the NACSAP; and (ii) level M&E, and reporting to
                                                              high
the President on progress o f implementation o f the anti-conuption measures. Funds for use
under this component will be managed bythe ES.

Coordinationwith other reformprogramsthrough the IMTC and the IMWG: The overall
coordinating mechanism for the core cross-cutting reforms (public service, local government,
public finance, legal/judicial and sector development) i s the responsibility o f the existing
committee of all Permanent Secretaries (IMTC) chaired by the Chief SecretarykIead o f Public

                                                 - 28 -

Service. The IMWG comprised o f senior government officers and chaired by the PS PO-PSM
meets quarterly to review progress o f all core reform programs and reports to the IMTC.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

Monitoring and evaluation under the project will be streamlined within the GOT'Sown M&E
framework for the MKUKUTA.             The M&E arrangements under the governance pillar o f
MKUKUTAare based largely onthe monitoring and evaluation framework for NACSAP, which
incorporates many o f the target outcomes o f the LSRP and the PFMRP. These are centralized
under the GGCU, which provides leadership and coordination for NACSAP across GOT.
Furthermore, GGCU's M&E system, which i s operationalized through the Presidential MIS will
capture at a high level both outputs and outcomes indicators for the ATIP.

At the program level the LSRP and the PFMRP will each have their own M&E arrangements,
based on the broader M&E system for cluster 3 o f M K U K U T A already developed by central
government agencies (under leadership o f the PO-PSM and MOF) for implementation by all
MDAs under the harmonized planning, and budgeting initiative. Specifically, PO-PSM has
developed a computer-based M&E database, which will be tailored to meet the needs o f the
LSRP and PFMRP. The advantage o f this IT-based system is that it is user friendly and offers a
reliable storage facility, which make easy the manipulation and retrieval o f information
Moreover, it can readily be reviewed to establish data completeness or inconsistencies. It also
enables the creation o f a variety o f reports. The system i s hierarchical and applies the logical
structure specified under the MTEF.

Data collected from routine administrative systems, surveys, studies and other management
systems (e.g., the national poverty monitoring system, IFMS, payroll, etc.) will be stored and
analysed on the M&E database. The LSRP and PFMRP coordination units will maintain this
system and use it to generate periodic implementation progress reports for monitoring purposes,
as well as, dissemination to various stakeholders. Thejoint review will draw on reports from the
system to inform their bi-annual evaluations o f the program. This LSRP and PFMRP M&E
framework will provide a basis for: (i)     ensuring accountability; (ii)assessing progress towards
achieving the programs' goals and objectives; (iii)     facilitating planning and decision-making;
(iv) orienting stakeholders to the programs' objectives; (v) motivating implementing agencies
and component managers to deliver pre-determinedresults and, for (vi) disseminationpurposes.

The specific aspects o f M&E for the OW1 component would focus on the indicators o f the
implementationprocesses and outputs from each entity to be funded. These would be captured at
the ES as laid down inthe Operations Manual. At the outcome levels, the ES, just like any other
MDA, will be required to forward relevant indicators to the PO-PSM and GGCU coordinated
M&E systems.

4. Sustainability

According to the foreword to the NFGG, "The GOThas given governance issues the highest
priority in recent years, as it i s aware that the continuing development problems in the country
could be associated with difficulties o f management in the public sector that are reflected in

                                                    - 29 -

financial mismanagement, corruption, low level o f service provision, tax evasion and
unnecessarily bureaucratic procedures.''        In addition, the recent speech by the newly-elected
President confirms that his government will be "guided by good governance, transparency and
ac~ountability."~This priority i s already evident inthe wide ranging comprehensive reforms that
the GOT has undertaken and which the new President vows to accelerate.                       This renewed
commitment and the assurance that the new government will not "unravel what was done by
previous governments" also provides the assurance necessary to continue with long-term
institutional reforms. The GOThas also emphasized inrecent years the needto better inform the
people about progress with reforms and to listen to citizen's concerns about the performance o f
government indelivering services. ATIP will include activities that will strengthen this approach
through a results-based monitoring framework coupled with developing the capacity for sharing
information, communicating and responding to the public's demands for greater accountability.
Buildingdomestic accountability i s key to sustainable results.

ATIP will use GOTstructures for implementation. Activities related to the four components o f
ATIP will be part and parcel o f the GOT'Sobjectives for legal/judicial and public financial
management reforms. They will be managed by public servants as part o f implementingtheir
organizational goals and results. For this reason, it i s expected that capacity built will be retained
and will continue to advance the institutional changes implemented even after DP funding has
ended. This approach requires a close link to the PSW which is looking into the needs to go
further in terms of providing adequate incentives to attract and retain qualified people in the
public service. It also requires close linkages to the BEST program (supported as a component
o f the Bank's Private Sector Competitiveness Project) which aims at strengthening the business
environment.

GOThas demonstrated strong ownership in preparing the project's components with strong
support from the Hon. Chief Justice, the Attorney-General and the Head o f the Public Service
in addition to other senior public servants.            GOT has budgeted funds in 2005/06 for
implementing some initial aspects o f the LSW and P F M W . In addition, the Bank's project
preparation facility (PPF) and other DP initiatives have supported building the capacity for
management and implementation o f the reform agenda. Although capacity constraints are
substantial, capacity development activities will be linked to results and aimed at improving
definite skills related to specific tasks.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Risks                        RiskMitigationMeasures                                     Risk Rating
                                                                                        with
                                                                                        Mitigation
To Project
Development Objective
Decline in political will A political analysis has been carried out that                      M
amongst the leadership reflects on the large constituency o f reformers
to continue with the core within the executive and in the general public.


'PresidentJakaya Kikwete's speech on inaugurating the fourth phase parliament (30 December 2005).

                                              - 3 0 -

1
reforms.                   GOT has also been moving towards a more
                           inclusive policy-making environment and this
                           will strengthen the public's support for reforms.
                           ATP, apart from promoting inclusive policy-
                           making in public fiscal policy, includes IEC
                           activities to ensure that reforms are well
                           understood at all levels o f society. In addition,
                           there are activities that will continue to take
                           place through the PSRP that contribute to the
                           demand for the PFMRP and LSRP and create
                           strong linkages.   These are embedded in the
                          MKUKUTA, the government's overall growth
                           and poverty reduction instrument. The new
                           government has reaffirmed its commitment to
                           continue and even accelerate the reforms.
                           GOTis working on a major review o f the public      M
conducive to attract,      service salary structure to improve the capacity
motivate and retain staff. o f the public service to attract, motivate and
                           retain staff. Further, pay is a major issue in the
                           PRBSPRSCPRSL policy dialogue and will
                           continue to be raised as an issue for action.
                           However      progress    remains    slower   than
                           anticipated. Dialogue will be heightened at the
                           PRBS/PRSCPRSL level and through the PSRP
                           dialogue.    Some key technical work i s taking
                           place that should helpthe GOTto move faster on
                          pay and rationalizationo f incentives.
Low level capacity in      The LSRP and PFMRP have built a significant         H
the lead agencies to       amount o f technical expertise and other short-
implementand               term support into the project components. This
coordinate the LSRP and takes into account the need to support lead
PFMRP.                     implementing institutions, MoF, MJCA, GGCU
                           and ES to achieve a sustainable level o f capacity
                           to implement the reform agenda.        A lot will
                           depend on the quality o f the expertise that is
                           provided and the willingness o f GOTto get the
                          best possible      resources    for   the specific
                           specialized areas.     The review process will
                          provide for a forum to assess regularly progress
                           made in the implementation o f the reforms and
                           to adjust accordingly. Following the elections,
                           government's commitment to the reforms has
                          been reconfirmed. The senior management of
                           the key implementing agencies has indicated
                          their willingness to move urgently with the
                          LSRP, which laggedbehind other reforms.

                                                - 31 -


 Weak commitment and         The        PRSCPRBSPRSL              performance        S
 capacity o fpublic          assessment framework includes dialogue on
 service managers to         continued public service reforms and incentive
 improve service delivery structure to build capacity and commitment o f
 and good governance.        managers to service delivery. In addition, the
                             A T P has built in a number o f activities in all
                             areas that will strengthen the capacity o f public
                             service managers including change management
                             training.
 To component results
 Weak coordination o f       Coordination mechanisms have been developed            H
 legal/judicial reforms      with the full participation and collaboration o f
 leads to delays and         key stakeholders.     Continue to maintain the
 ineffective                 dialogue with the Minister, Attorney General,
 implementation o f          Chief Justice and PS to confirm their strong
 reforms.                    leadership in spearheading the reform program.
                             The joint review process o f GOT and DPs will
                             provide an avenue to reassess regularly the
                             commitment       and      progress   made       in
                             implementing the LSRP. This joint dialogue

I                            will also provide the forum to focus on results.
 Low utilization o f         An IEC program will be in place to educate             M
                             target organizations     and agencies on the
                             objectives o f the Facility, and the modalities o f
                             its operation.   Conduct IEC campaigns soon
                             after the launch o f the project to create more
                             awareness o f the FEAT. Start working closely
                             with ES now in anticipation o f the launch o f the
                             operation and continue working closely with
                             GGCU to ensure that it also lends its support to
                             the ES and the FEAT through its coordination
                             responsibility.

 All of the ATIP components contribute to strengtheninggood governance and indirectly curbing
 corruption by putting in place more transparent systems o f accountability. The PFMRP seeks,
 among other things, to improve procurement and financial management processes and systems,
 and support extensive reforms in the justice system.          The GGCU i s the main organ o f
 government to monitor the implementation o f anti-corruption action plans in both central and
 local governments. Therefore ATP i s addressing accountable and transparent practices directly
 and indirectly addressing corruption issues.

 Bank i s also taking steps to minimize the risks o f corruption within the ATIP. The project will
 support the strengthening o f the auditing (NAO), both external and internal, and procurement
 agencies. Support to the demand side o f good governance, including strengthening the capacity
 o f non-state actors, will contribute to greater transparency in the use o f project funds. The
 potential scale-up of the FEAT approach that aims at strengthening the capacity o f OWIs

                                               - 32 -


provides an avenue to broaden the voice o f non-state actors inrequestingan accountable public
service. Lastly, financial and procurement management assessments o f the key implementing
agencies were conducted with a view to mitigate the risks against weak fiduciary capacity.
Detailed operations manuals including procedures for financial management and procurement
are inplace for each component o f ATIP. Close supervision and focus on results semi-annually
will provide a regular assessment o fthe implementation o fthe project.

6. Credit conditions andcovenants

BoardCondition

None.

Conditions of Effectiveness

Submission o f legal opinion inaccordance with the General Conditions.

Conditionsof Disbursement

        (i)     for component 1, signature o f the LSRP MOU, appointment o f the key MJCA
                staff, and approval by the joint Government/DPs committee o f the respective
                LSRP annual work plan and budget;
        (ii)    for component 2, signature o f a modified PFMRP MOU, and approval bythejoint
                GovernmentDPs committee o f the respective PFMRP annual work plan and
                budget;
        (iii) for components 3 and 4, finalization of the ES Operational Manual and
                appointment o fkey ES staff; and
        (iv)    for approval o f FEAT grants exceeding a specified threshold, a prior no-objection
                bythe Bank.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancial analyses

The project will have positive economic and fiscal benefits. Implementation o f the legal and
judicial reform program will result in improvements in the commercial legal environment,
improvements inthe delivery o fjustice particularly inthe rural areas and generally observance of
the rule o f law. Improvement in the rule o f law will support the achievement o f the NACSAP
objective o f reducing corruption and improving governance inTanzania.

Implementation o f public financial management reforms will result in positive economic and
fiscal impacts. There will be significant budgetary benefits after implementation o f the project
compared to the current levels o f GOTannual expenditure. The PFMRP has an economic rate of
return o f 26.3% at August 2005 prices. This is significantly higher than the opportunity cost o f
capital o f 12%. These fiscal benefits will have a positive impact on the overall economy.

                                                - 33 -


2. Technical

The SWAP programs that will be supported by the ATP (LSRP and PFMRP) have major
elements o f technical capacity development. This development i s crucial for the LSRP where
comparatively slow progress, especially compared to other cross-cutting reforms, has been
constrained by, among other factors, dearth o fprogram implementation capacity. Already, some
training o f officers from the various concerned MDAs has taken place through a previous IDF
grant for the M J C A and more recently the PPF for A T P . Furthermore, GTZ has seconded some
program management specialists to the LSRP, and plans are at hand to recruit additional
technical expertise to support the program implementation.

With regard to the PFMRP, the more daunting technical challenges, particularly those associated
with the application o f ICT to implement an integrated financial management system (IFMS)
have been largely overcome in the past several years. The IFMS system has been implemented
in Tanzania for the past ten years and has led to significant improvements in treasury
management. Indeed Tanzania's IFMS, even though it is not yet a fully integrated system i s
probably the most successful ICT application in public financial management in Sub-Saharan
Africa.  In this context, we consider that the design of these programs has taken aboard any
significant technical issues that could constraint the programs implementation.

There are no major technical challenges in the implementation o f components 3 and 4 o f the
ATIP.    The operations, and financial and procurement manuals describe in detail every
procedure and format to be used by the ES inthe management o f the FEAT (component 3). The
staffs in the ES have the knowledge and skills needed to make proper use o f these manuals.
They already operate the IFMS system for accounting and they use the new GOT procurement
regulations and procedures, which are Bank compliant. Further, they will receive training on the
manuals and program management, including the administration o f a designated account, before
commencing the disbursement o f hnds under this component. As previously indicated (Section
C3 above) implementation o f component 4 i s essentially about supporting the GGCU to improve
its performance in carrying out its,core role and functions. As and when necessary, the funds
from ATIP will be used to hire consultants, on a short-term basis, to support the GGCU to
implement its activities. Therefore, the technical issues and challenges for the ATIP are well
catered for inthe design of each component.

3. Fiduciary

(A) Financial Management

A financial management assessment for the three implementing institutions - MJCA, MoF and
ES was carried out. The project's financial management arrangements satisfy the World Bank's
minimumrequirements under OP/BP10.02. However, some improvementsremain to be effected
for the system to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial
management risks. The program financial management risk is assessed as being modest. The
various measures/improvements that need to be made are detailed inAnnex 7.

                                              - 34 -


Major risks that may face the project include:

1.     Fundsmay not be used inan efficient and economical way and exclusively for purposes
       intended.

       Mitigating measures:
   0   The program will be subject to joint regular implementation review and annual external
       financial and procurement audit review aimed at closely monitoring both financial and
       physical performance o f the program.
   0   ATP will provide support to the oversight and watchdog institutions for good
       governance inorder to strengthenthe public accountability at all level.
   0   Linkage between physical output and financial outcomes will be strengthened including
       M&Efunctions intheministry.

2.     Weak internal audit capacity within the ministryto oversee the internal controls systems.

       Mitigating measures:
       Each ministry has established an internal audit unit and audit committee. An internal
       audit manual has been developed and training conducted to internal auditors, accountants,
       and Accounting Officers. Although these are now in place, its effectiveness i s hindered
       due to inadequate number and skilled internal auditors.

3.     Lack o f qualified internal auditors and accounting staff inthe ministries

       Mitigating measure:
       Recruitment i s underway this FY by the Accountant General office for additional
       qualified internal auditors and accountants. In addition, significant efforts have been
       made over the last four years by the Accountant General to improve the capacity o f
       technical accounting and internal auditing staff. This has been through a range o f in
       service training courses for all levels o f staff as well as support for academic and
       professional qualifications. However the ability o f the government to recruit and retain
       suitably experienced personnel remains a challenge.

(B) Procurement

The overall procurement risk o f the project has been rated high. The key issues and risks
concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been identified. The assessment
has revealedthat:

   (i)     The procurement staff have little experience incarrying out procurement o f goods
           and works under International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures and selecting of
           consultants;
   (ii)    procurement filing and record keepingsystems are inadequate;
   (iii)   the procurement staff lack skills to prepare procurement plans;
   (iv)    the procurement staff at MJCA who are expected to dealwith the proposed civil
           works have no experience with construction and supervision contracts; and
   (v)     inadequate staffing at the ES.

                                             - 35 -


The corrective measures which have beenproposed are:

    (i)    procurement staff and tender boardmembersto attend workshops and training in
           procurement o f goods, works; and selection o f consultants;
    (ii)   procurement staff to attend data management training and establish acceptable
           procurement filing and record keeping;
    (iii)  the project to hireshort term procurement specialists to work andbuildcapacity at
           the ES and at MJCA for 6 months, with a possibility o f extension ifnecessary;
    (iv)   the ES to establish a mainstreamedprocurement management unit (PMU); and
    (v)    the Government to make available at least one additionalprocurement officer to
           enhance the capacity o f PMU.


The risk will be monitored during supervision missions and post review missions and validated
accordingly.

A new Public Procurement Act was passed by the Parliament in November 2004. The Act is
based on recommendations o f 2003 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and it
repealed the Public Procurement Act o f 2001. It i s envisaged that the new Act will improve the
existingprocurement system.

4. Social

The preparation o f the project has been inclusive, involving a wide range o f stakeholders. In
particular, the preparation o f the LSRP and PFMRP included both government officials and
representatives o f civil society organizations, professional bodies and academicians.      This
inclusive approach has raised the expectations o f the stakeholders inthe reform outcomes. GOT,
through the LSRP and PFMRPprogram documents, has sought to meet these expectations.

The OW1 component has been informed by consultations with professional and civil society
organizations as well as by outcomes o f the seminar on political economy and accountability
structures o f Tanzania (September 2005) that involved a number o f stakeholders from civil
society, academia, professional associations and the GOT.

5. Environment

The project will not have any interventions directly related to environmental issues, apart from
those that address safeguards below. ATP will finance under the LSRP civil works construction
costs for completely new buildings; extension o f and rehabilitation o f existing buildings;
demolition o f existing buildings and construction o f new buildings for selected high priority
infrastructure for the judiciary and MJCA. ASPEN has reviewed the project's safeguards status
and categorized it as B-partial assessment.

An environmental and social management framework and a resettlement policy framework have
beenprepared, reviewed and approvedby the government. These have been disclosed incountry
and the World Bank Info Shop on February 20,2006.        See Annex 10 for details.

                                                          - 3 6 -



6. Safeguard policies

   Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                     Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                        [XI                  [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   [I                   [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [I                   [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                          [ ]                  [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            [XI                  [I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                           [I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            [I                   [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [I                   [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP7.60)*                                        [I                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                             [I                   [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The project i s not seekinganypolicy exception. The project i s ready for implementation.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas

                                                - 37 -

                     Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
               TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project

1.Background: Major country and sector issues

Duringthe past decade the Government o f Tanzania (GOT) has implemented a comprehensive
program o f reforms that has yielded sustained macroeconomic stability, an increasingly
liberalized economy, and scope for the private sector to become the main agent o f economic
activity. These reforms have created the foundation for accelerated economic growth. Overall
economic growth has risen consistently for the past eight years (except in 2003 due to drought)
from 3.3 percent in 1997 to 6.7 percent in 2004, which i s an average annual growth rate o f 5.1
percent. However, poverty still remains widespread and at an average of US$ 330 per capita
(Atlas Method), Tanzania remains one o f the poorest countries inthe world.

The Government has developed a National Strategy for Growth and Reduction o f Poverty
(MKUKUTA)9that provides an overarching framework for fightingpoverty anda framework for
resource allocation. It i s based on three clusters (i)
                                                      growth and reduction o f income poverty; (ii)
improved quality o f life and social well-being; and (iii) governance and accountability.
                                                            good
The strategy's major focus is shared growth, recognizing that this cannot be achieved without
addressing governance issues that are the bedrock o fpublic sector performance.

The governance and accountability cluster (cluster 3) aims to achieve four broad outcomes: (i)
good governance and the rule o f law ensured; (ii) and public servants are accountable to
                                                     leaders
the people through the effective reduction o f corruption and public access to information; (iii)
democracy and political and social tolerance are deepened; and (iv) peace, political stability,
national unity and social cohesion are cultivated and sustained.         To attain these results,
MKUKUTAhas seven goals:

                Structures and systems o f governance as well as the rule o f law are democratic,
                participatory, representative, accountable and inclusive;

                Equitable allocation o fpublic resources with corruption effectively addressed;

                Effective public service framework in place to provide the foundation for service
                delivery improvements andpoverty reduction;

                Rightso fthe poor and vulnerable groups areprotected and promotedinthejustice
                system;

                Reductiono fpolitical and social exclusion and intolerance;

                Improved personal and material security, reduced crime, eliminate sexual abuse
                and domestic violence; and

                National cultural identities enhanced andpromoted.


  Knownby its Kiswahili acronymMKUKUTA.

                                                  - 38 -


A T P will contribute to the first four goals o f the MKUKUTA. Development partners, including
the Bank, have joined forces to support cluster 3 through projects, programs and GBS (see
Annex 2).

Before embarking on the M K U K U T A as the central plan for Tanzania's development, GOThad
already put inplace in 1999 a National Framework for Good Governance (NFGG). The NFGG
guides GOT'Scomprehensive reform agenda with a view to improving governance and service
delivery thus ensuring better use o f limitedresources. To this day, it remains the platform for the
ongoing crosscutting public sector reforms namely public service, local government, public
financial management and legal/judicial reforms as well as anti-corruption measures reflected in
the NACSAP.      The latter, which enshrines the government's program to fight corruption,
provides the framework within which MDAs should be fighting corruption. It embraces all
crosscutting and sectoral reforms. Moreover it provides Government (GGCU)" the instrument
for monitoring and reportingto the Presidenton progress made to fight corruption.

The WBI governance indicators (below) show that Tanzania has made substantial progress in a
number of areas since 2002. This is particularly true for government's effectiveness and the
control of corruption. Slight improvements can be noted invoice and accountability and the rule
o f law with political stability remaining the same.             However, the regulatory quality has
worsened.

                                            TWANIA &OM3




loThe GGCUwas created inthe President's Office to coordinate the government's efforts to fight corruption.

                                                - 3 9 -


2. The Government Strategic Framework

As described inthe NFGG, the Government's strategic framework for building good governance
i s multi-point and comprehensive, focusing on the following:

                 Participationo f the people indecision-making for social, political and economic
                 development;

                 Legal and regulatory framework for private sector development;

                 Constitutionalism, the rule o f law, administration o f justice and protection o f
                 human rights;

                 Gender equity;

                 Accountability, transparency, and integrity inmanagement ofpublic affairs;

                 Electoral democracy; and

                 Greater public service capabilities to deliver services efficiently and effectively.

This holistic approach reflects the appreciation that achieving good governance at the national
level entails a broad spectrum o f strategic measures that cover central and local governments, the
private sector and the civil society and their inter-linkages, as reflected inthe diagram below. In
that context, Government has formulated specific strategies and programs, such as has been done
with the NACSAP, LSRP, PSRP and PFMRP, without loosing sight that these programs are
complementary and need to work together to achieve better governance and control o f
corruption.

The former Chief Secretary and Head o f the Public Service states inthe foreword to the NFGG:
"The Government o f Tanzania has given governance issues the highestpriority inrecent years as
it is aware that the continuing development problems in the country could be associated with
difficulties o f management in the public sector that are reflected in financial mismanagement,
corruption, low level service provision, tax evasion and unnecessary bureaucratic procedures".
Inhismaidenspeechto ParliamentinDecember2005, President JakayaKikweteidentified good
governance as one o f the ten core issues for his government. H e promised that "The fourth phase
government will fulfill its governance and development responsibilities and will focus on good
governance and accountability, the rule o f law and respect for the human rights o f all people."
This perspective is underpinned by a broad view that: (i)governance encompasses political,
economic, administrative/managerial and social dimensions, and (ii)        a participatory approach i s
imperative considering the close correlation between development and good governance. This
partnership o f the central government, local governments, private sector and civil society i s
illustrated inFigure 1below.

                                                       - 40 -




                             Figure1:Partnershipfor GoodGovernance




                                                   1.CENTRAL
                                                   GOVEKNMENT
                                                    (Executive,
                                                      Judiciarv


                                   4. PRIVATE
                                 SECTOR
                          (and its organizations)                  its agtncies)




                                                    3. c1v-11,
                                                   SOCIETY




Source: GOT,TheNational Framework on Good Governance, December 1999

Based on the NACSAP, a set o f high priority issues were identified under the following

                  inefficient and ineffective public service delivery;

                  corruption;

                  weak legal andjudicial system;

                  gaps in procedures and controls for public expenditure management and more
                  broadly financial accountability;

                  poor management o f information including records and data; and

                  weak oversight and watchdog institutions.


Inefficient/irzeffective   public service delivery and lack of accountability of public service
institutions

Since the mid 1990s GOTwith the help o f DPs;has been supporting public service reforms under
the PSRP. The development objective o f the PSRP, supported by an IDA credit (3300-TA) i s to
improve efficiency and effectiveness o f public service delivery o f the Government's economic
and social programs on a continuous and sustainable basis through institutional reforms and
capacity development measures. This is aimed at improving the capacity and performance o f the
public service and the ability o f the public service to recruit and retain qualified professionals.

                                               - 4 1 -


Government, with support o f the Bank and other DPs, has been addressing problems o f poor
service delivery through various projects, program and GBS for the development o f specific
sectors (education, health, water, agriculture, roads, urban infrastructure, etc.), and cross-cutting
reform programs for public service, public finance, and local government. The decentralization
and LGRP, launched in 1997 and supported by several DPs, including the Bank through LGSP,
i s geared to enhance efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability in the delivery o f
basic social services through devolution o f planning and decision-making authority and
resources from the central government to local governments.

Corruption

In 1999, the GOTrecognizingthat corruption inthe public and private sectors had reached very
highproportions adopted aNACSAP. The current NACSAP, which hasbeenimplemented from
2000 and came to an end in 2005. The new NACSAP will have the same thrust. The major
causes o f corruption were identifiedto include: (i)  greed and abuse o fpower; (ii) discipline;
                                                                                     poor
(iii)deficiencies in management systems, procedures and controls; (iv) weak legal and judicial
systems; (v) weak oversight and watchdog institutions (among these, the ES, the PCB, the NAO,
Parliament and the media); and (vi) low public awareness.

The NACSAP i s coherent and holistic. It i s underpinnedby the principles of zero-tolerance, the
commitment o f political leaders, prevention, public awareness and institution building. Its seven
priority areas are:

                The rule o f law and legal framework: This component aims to facilitate the
                review o f sectoral laws and creation o f conditions necessary for restoration o f
                confidence inthejudiciary and law enforcement agencies;

                Financial discipline and management: The objective includes curbing misuse,
                waste and loss o f Government resources;

                Procurement: The aim i s to ensure strict adherence to efficient and transparent
                administration o f tendering and procuring goods and services to realize value for
                money;

                Public education, awareness and sensitization o f their rights: The strategy
                involves developing and implementing IEC programs that create awareness o f
                how corruption harms the economy, and ultimately undermines the fabric and
                values o f society;

                Public service reform: This will target the transformation o f public service
                officers to accountable servants o f the public;

                Whistle blowers and witness protection: The aim i s to launch a campaign to
                encourage citizens to volunteer information on corrupt practices to enforcement
                agencies and to protect them from victimization by the corrupt; and

                                                - 42 -


        (vii)   The mass media: The media will be encouraged and supported to report
                corruption incidences and elements without fear or favor, and to publicize the
                harmo fcorruptionto the innocent, the poor andthe weak inTanzania.

The new President has pledgedto "accelerate the war on corruptionina more scientific way and
by addressing its root causes".

Weak legal andjudicial system

Upholding the rule o f law through the efficient, fair and transparent administration o fjustice i s
the basis for the promotion and maintenance o f social peace and stability o f the state. It i s also
crucial in ensuring an enabling environment for development generally and to attract private
sector investment. The quality o f legal andjudicial services remains low. This i s reflected by:
(a) inordinate delays inresolving disputes and dispensingjustice; (b) very limited access to legal
services for the majority o f citizens particularly the poor and uninformed; (c) corruption and
other unethical conduct of officers inthe legal system; (d) a legal systemthat is not responsive to
social, political, economic, technological changes, and to long-running financial constraints; and
(e) limited public trust inthe legal andjudicial system.

The problems and constraints underlyingthe weakness o f the legal andjudicial system have been
identified by stakeholders as:        (i)a fragmented, excessively bureaucratic, cumbersome and
outdated legal and regulatory framework; (ii)weak management and coordination o f
legal/judicial institutions; (iii)low competence, morale and integrity o f some public sector legal
personnel; (iv) inadequate numbers o f professionally-trained legal personnel; (v) constrained
independence and low integrity o f the legal system; and (vi) poorly furnished, equipped and
maintained work environment o fpublic sector legal institutions.

Government has over the past years developed a comprehensive LSRP to tackle the problems
mentioned above. The key features o f the Medium-Term Strategy and Action Plan (2005-2008
for this program include:

                 Government's commitment to enhanced funding o f the Judiciary and other public
                 legal sector institutions;

                 Emphasis on relatively low-cost and early impact interventions;

                 Strong inter-agency collaboration as a crucial element to the overall successful
                 implementation o fthe program;

                 Strategic planning by legal sector institutions; and

                A program that complements and links with such other public sector reforms as
                the PSRP, LGRP and the NACSAP and also with private sector development
                programs such as BEST.

                                                      - 43 -

Gaps in procedures and controlsfor public expenditure management and more broadly for
financia1accountability

Government has, over the past decade, persistently endeavored to improve its systems and
practice o f public expenditure management. With regard to budget management, the imposition
o f a strict cash control budget has secured aggregate control over total public expenditure,
consistent with revenue raising capacity and borrowing constraints. As a result, Tanzania enjoys
macroeconomic stability and fiscal deficits that have remained within set targets inrecent years.
At the same time, budget reform through PERs, implementation of a MTEF and introduction of
performance budgeting (linked to a public service improvement strategy under the PSRF') are
underway.        These latter initiatives aim at allocative and operational efficiencies o f the
Government's expenditureprograms.

In accounting for public expenditures, the central thrust o f the reform has been the
implementation o f a transparent computerized IFMS in all ministries. It i s currently beingrolled
out to agencies and districts.            In this, Tanzania is a pace setter in sub-Saharan Africa.
Nevertheless, the procedures and controls for public expenditure management are still
conspicuouslyweak inthe following three important areas:

         (i) Procurement. There has been weak public procurement statutory controls,
                  regulations and procedures over the years. Consequently, as well elaborated in
                  the report o fthe Presidential Commission o f Enquiry against Corruption (1996)",
                  there have been serious concerns about corruption and waste in the procurement
                  o f goods and services by some public officers. President Kikwetehas promised to
                  "look again at our systems and processes o f contract making, contract
                  enforcement and tendering inthe government and other public offices, in order to
                  increase transparency and accountability". Public procurement reform initiatives
                  have been underway but much remains to be done. However, it acknowledges
                  GOT'Sconcern that "public procurement is still weak and needs to be
                  strengthenedsubstantially"'2.        Inthis respect, progress has been made to correct
                  deficiencies in the regulatory regime, but tackling capacity and organization
                  culture issues remain key challenges.

                  The NACSAP emphasizes the need for procurement reforms.                As result, the
                  Public Procurement Act passed in2004 provides for establishment o f a regulative
                  framework and decentralization o f procurement fimctions to MDAs. To date,
                  regulations accompanying the implementation o f the Act have been passed and
                  measures are being taken to implement them in all MDAs. They need to be
                  enforced more vigorously by the regulatory authority to improve compliance.
                  This i s a core area beingtargeted by the PFMRF'for which the Bank's expertise i s
                  beingsought.




 *'Betterknownas    the WariobaReport
 "Tanzania:CountryProcurementAssessmentReport,GoTNorldBank,(2003)

                                                - 44 -


        (ii)   Internal Audit. An effectively performing internal audit function supports and
               reinforces the internal controls for safeguarding proper custody, use and
                accounting for the resources o f any organization. While the GOThas had an
               Internal Audit Department inthe MoF and other ministries,the function has never
               been effectively carried out. Three main factors explained this situation. First,
               the task i s poorly staffed in terms of both quality and numbers o f personnel.
                Secondly, and probably the most important, there was limited demand for regular
               internal audit reports by public service managers. The PFMRP also seeks to
               improve the internal audit function inthe public service.

        (iii)  Mandate and Capacity ofthe NAO. The N A O is established in the Constitution
               to promote and safeguard financial accountability inthe custody and use o f public
               resources. The Exchequer and Audit Act o f Parliament requires the C A G to
               certify that: all revenues due are collected and deposited into a consolidated fund;
                all monies are drawn out o f the consolidated fund on the basis o f specific
               provisions in the Constitution or as appropriated by an Act o f Parliament; the
               monies disbursed have been applied to the purpose for which they were
                appropriated; and there has been compliance with the prescribed financial rules,
               procedures and regulations. Inall these respects, the capacity and performance o f
                the N A O have remarkably improved inrecent years. This has beenmade possible
               bythe technicalassistancereceivedfrom anumber o fDPs.

                However, the performance o f the N A O i s still significantly constrained in three
                important respects. Firstly, the mandate o f the office has traditionally provided
                for the restricted function o f checking compliance and did not allow for VFM
                audits, which considerably reduces the value o f the function. Secondly, until
                three years ago, while the C A G has been constitutionally empowered to make
                independent decisions and report directly to Parliament, the office is denied
                independence o f operation because it wholly depends on the M o F (its primary
                auditees) for hnding and PO-PSM for staff appointments and compensation.
                Thirdly, inpart as a consequence o fthe second, the office has a limitednumber o f
                skilledpersonnel to carry out its audits efficiently, effectively and on time.

Government has acknowledged the need to address these constraints in the PFMRP and NFGG.
The latter states that to improve financial accountability as well as control o f VFM in
government spending, there has to be an effective external audit capacity. Also, Government has
through the Public Finance Act changed the Exchequer and Audit Ordinance and granted the
NAO operational autonomy and given it a mandate to carry out VFM audits. SIDA and DFID
have been supporting capacity development o f the NAO. President Kikwete has recently
underscored the urgent need to act on NAO's annual reports and call to account all those
identified as having flouted procedures or the law.

Weak 0WIs

Historically, compared to other countries in Africa, Tanzania has led the way in establishing
oversight institutions for good governance. In 1995, the country set an example by introducing a
leadership code o f ethics, and establishing an ES (ES) whose executive officer is a Judge o f the

                                                - 45 -

High Court. These institutions were additional to the more conventional ones, i.e., the DPP, the
NAO, Parliament and its committees. Yet, inspite ofthis multiplicity o f institutions, the country
continues to face serious governance problems. These oversight institutions have been and
remain weak.

These weaknesses are the common woes o f other public institutions in Tanzania and elsewhere
in Africa, e.g., under funding o f operations, poor salaries and incentives resulting inability to
recruit and retain well qualified officers, overlapping mandates that give rise to conflicts, lack o f
collaboration and coordination o f the institutions, and a weak legal framework. Hence, the
GOT'Sprograms for good governance, and particularly those for anti-corruption and legal sector
reform specifically target to rationalize the mandates and functions o f these institutions,
strengthen their capacities and improve coordination o f their operations. These problems have
been highlighted in a series o f recent studies:     the Bank's political economy study, DFID's
Drivers o f Change and SIDA's power analysis. It particularly stressed that Tanzania has a strong
executive but weak legislative and judiciary branches. This coupled with low participation o f
non-state actors contributes to little demandfor accountability fiom public institutions.

GOThas recognizedthat inpursuit o f good governance, it is not enough to strengthen only public
sector institutions. In the NFGG, GOTstates that civil society institutions (Le. NGOs, CSOs,
religious societies, trade unions, charities, clubs, cultural groups, sports associations, special
interest groups, professional associations, academic and research institutions, etc.) constitute a
strong instrument for the effective participation and involvement o f the people in decision-
making, and social, political and economic development activities. In addition, civil society
organizations have a crucial role in informing and sensitizing the people, and thereby
strengtheningpublic demand for accountability by leaders and services providers.

The NFGG also recognizes that civil society organizations in the country have considerable
capacity weaknesses, in areas o f problem analysis, advocacy,               outreach, networking,
management, revenue raising, accountability and responsiveness. Key factors that underlie the
weaknesses in the civil society organizations include a reform focus on the supply side o f the
accountability equation, Le., getting the state side Yo be accountable to the public". However,
this approach can work only as long as it continues to be reinforced by the (external) DPs o f the
accountability programs.    Continued accountability o f state institutions in the long run will
require strengthening the institutions that represent the demand side o f the same equation, Le.,
civil society and, the media organizations. These conclusions imply the need for more innovate
and inclusive DP-supported approaches to strengthening institutions for good governance. The
Tanzania Foundation for Civil Society provides capacity building support to CSOs to enable
them engage effectively in accountable governance activities. The foundation is funded by
several DPs, and has recently launched a strategic plan that outlines its key activities for 2005 -
2008.

A recent seminar on "The political economy and accountability structures o f Tan~ania"'~
concluded on the needto address public sector reforms together with opening up space for more
accountable governance within society as reflected in the figure below. These two dimensions



l3September2005.

                                             - 46 -

show how the balance between improvingtechnical management needs to bebalanced with more
checks andbalances from OWIs including non-state actors.



                Technical
                & Managerial
                Competencies


                   Multi-Year Financial
                   Planning


                Value for Money Auditing




                Improved Accounting

                   Budget Formulation


                   Budget Execution




                                             "              DemocraticChecks;Debate

                                                       Source:A Lawson. Tanzania Accountablllty Study, 2005




The issues that have been raised in the NFGG and the NACSAP have been central to the
dialogue between DPs and the GOT in the context o f the Poverty Reduction Support
CreditBudget Support and in other policy forums. They are also at the heart o f cluster 3 o f the
MKUKUTA. There has been consensus in recent years on the need for comprehensiveness and
the financing modality to pursue these reforms that will contribute to achieving the results o f the
M K U K U T A and the NFGG.

                                                     - 47 -

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                  TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency & IntegrityProject

                                                                           Latest Supervision
          Sector Issue                 OngoingProjects                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                     (Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                Implementation        Development
                                                                 Progress(IP)        Objective(DO)
Legal and regulatory            Private Sector Competitiveness
constraints                                                      Not yet rated        N o t yet rated

Fiscal decentralization, use Local Government Support
 o f government resources,                                            S                      S

 improved management
Banking restructuring,          Privatization & Private Sector
infrastructure & utilities      Development                           S                      S

regulation
Improved functioning and        Public Service Reform
 capacity buildingof the        Program                               S                      S

public service
 Improved legal framework Tax Administration
 & administrative                                                     S                      S

 infrastructure
I         Sector Issue               CompletedProjects                        OEDRatings

                               I                               I Outcome     1 Sustainability ID Impact
                                                                                              I          I
 Lega1andjudicia'system
 and gaps inprocedures and      FILMUP(notratedby OED)              d a            n/a              nfa

 controls for public
 expenditure management
 Procedures and controls for Poverty Reduction Support
 public expenditure             Credit (not ratedby OED)            nfa            d a              n/a

 management

 Related Projects/Programs Funded by Other Agencies and the Bank in support of
 MKUKUTA Cluster 3 Goals
 I MKUKUTA Goals                   IGovernment Program            I DevelopmentPartner14I    World
                                                                                             Bank
   1. Structures and systems o f    National Anti-Corruption        NACSAP: SIDA,            LGSP
   governance as well as the rule   Strategy and Action Plan        Finland, Norway,         ATP
   o f law are democratic,          (NACSAP)                        Denmark, UNDP            (proposed)
   participatory, representative,                                                            PSCP
   accountable and inclusive.       Local Government Support                                 TASAF
                                    Program (LGSP)

 I                                 I                               I                        I




  l4ExcludesGeneralBudget Support donors.

                                                - 48 -


MKUKUTA Goals                    GovernmentProgram             DevelopmentPartner14 World
                                                                                     Bank
                                 Local Government Reform
                                 Program(LGRP)                 LGRPLGSP
                                                               SIDA(Sweden), DFID,
                                                               Canada, GTZ, Finland,
                                                               UNDP, EC
2. Equitable allocation o f      Public Financial Management   PFMRP:                 TASAF
public resources with            Reform Program (PFMRP)        SIDA(Sweden):         ATP
corruption effectively                                        IFMAP" ,NA016,          (proposed)
addressed.                                                    DFID,CIDA, EC,
                                 NACSAP                        Norway, Denmark,
                                                               Switzerland, Japan

                                                               NACSAP:Finland,
                                                               UNDP
3. Effective public service      Public Service Reform         PSRP: DFID,Denmark     LGSP
framework inplace to             Program(PSRP)                                        PSRP
provide foundation for                                                                TASAF
service delivery                 Local Government Support      LGRPLGSP:              TAP
improvements and poverty         Program (LGSP)                SIDA(Sweden), DFID,
reduction.                                                     Canada, GTZ, Finland,
                                 Local Government Reform       UNDP, EC
                                 Prom-am (LGRP)
4. Rightso f the poor and        Legal Sector ReformProgram    LSRP: SIDA,            ATP
vulnerable groups are            (LSRP)                        Denmark, Federal       (proposed)
protected and promoted inthe                                   Republic o f Germany,  TASAF
justice system.                                                UNDP                   PSCP
                                 Business Environment
                                 Strengthening inTanzania      BEST: DFID,
                                 program (BEST)                Denmark, SIDA,
                                                               Netherlands

 5, Reduction o f political and  Tanzania Foundation for Civil TFCS: DFID, Ireland,
 social exclusion and            Society (TFCS)                Netherlands,
 intolerance.                                                  Switzerland, France

                                                               Legal and Human
                                                               Rights Center: SIDA
 6. Improvedpersonal and         Legal Sector ReformProgram    LSRP: SIDA,
 material security, reduced      ( L S W                       Denmark, Federal
 crime, eliminate sexual abuse                                 Republic o f Germany,
 and domestic violence.                                        UNDP

 7. National cultural identities Tanzania Cultural Trust Fund  TCTF: SIDA
 enhanced and promoted.          (TCTF)



  Integrated Financial Management and Accountability Programme covers PFMRP comp. 4
l6Supported together with SwedishNAO and covers PFMRP component 10

                                                    - 49 -


                             Annex 3: Results FrameworkandMonitoring
                  TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project

ResultsFramework

                                     ProjectOutcom


Improved access to justice by the    Percentage     o f    court    cases  Decline in percentage o f court cases
public and especially the poor       outstanding for two years or more     outstanding        contributes      to
                                                                           achievement     o f the MKUKUTA
                                                                           goals on good governance and the
                                                                           rule o f law ensured.

Accountable and transparent use of   Percentage o f MDAs with clean        Increase invalue for money audits in
public services                      value for money audit in NAO the              public     sector    improves
                                     report presented to Parliament        effectiveness of public spending and
                                                                           improves accountability. Submission
                                                                           o f  NAO report        to  Parliament
                                                                           improves        transparency     and.
                                                                           contributes    to   achievement     o f
                                                                          MKUKUTA goal: Public resources
                                                                           are allocated, accessible and used in
                                                                           an    equitable,    accountable   and
                                                                           transparent manner.

                                     Increased number o f participating    Increase in the number o f OWIs
                                     OWIs that use evidence based         using evidence       based report in
                                     reports in dialogue and oversight     dialogue      and    oversight   role
                                     role                                  improves dialogue with GOT and
                                                                           improved domestic accountability in
                                                                           Tanzania.

                                     Increased number o f participating    Increased number o f professional
                                     professional  associations   actively associations    actively participating
                                     promoting ethical conduct amongst     and     promoting    ethical  conduct
                                     members                               increases the ethical standards in

                                     IntermediateOutcome
                                     Indicators
LSRP

A    harmonized      legal  national Average time taken to resolve court   Decline in average time taken to
framework established                cases                                 resolve court cases leads to decline
                                                                           inbacklogo fpendingcourt cases.

Qualified primary court magistrates  Increased   number     o f  qualified Monitor improvement in delivery of
trained to serve inprimary courts    magistrates in primary courts         judicial services in the primary
                                                                           courts contributing to decline in
                                                                           backlog o f cases and improvements
                                                                           inlaw andorder.

                                                     - 5 0 -


Law graduates trained in practical    Increased number o f qualified law     Monitor improvement in quality and
skills to serve in legal and judicial graduates employed in the judiciary    lumbers o f staff inlegal andjudicial
institutions                          and MJCA                               .nstitutions contributing to increased
                                                                             lelivery   o f  legal   and judicial
                                                                             ;emices .
PFMRP

Implementation o f budget in line     Expenditure outturn as percentage o f  Monitor effectiveness o f the budget
with approved budget                  approved budget                        in achieving policy objectives and
                                                                             -0ntributing to effective resource
                                                                             use inthe public sector.

Procurement units     established in  Percentage o f procurement units To          monitor    quality   o f  public
MDAs and LGAs                         established   and    operational    in procurement     processes     and   to
                                      M D A s and LGAs                       improve        accountability       in
                                                                             procurement processes and decisions

Increased capacity    o f N A O    to Percentage o f N A O staff able to     To    monitor    quality   o f  public
undertake value for money audits      undertake value for money audits       financial management in MDAs and
                                                                             LGA and to improve accountability
                                                                             for public funds.
ow1

OWIs generate quality and relevant    Number o f evidence based and          To monitor quality and effectiveness
reports on performance o f the GOT    relevant reports by participating      inperforming oversight functions.
                                      OWIs on GOTperformance in key
                                      reform programs.

Ethical standards and self regulatory Percentage       o f     participating T o monitor capacity building in
mechanisms in place in professional   professional   associations   actively ethics for professional association
associations                          regulating   ethical  standards   and  members thereby contributing to
                                      practice o f members                   increasedethics environment.

                                   L     L    L I




         *
         m     m      m    *m
              Y       I

         -0   -0      -0   -0




      g
 I                  vi
      d             N
i
IA                                   y1   a
 I    g        s                    6     0   8
      w l     0r-   2        N,    Y E    3   d



      s        g
      0
      a        vi            W



      s        s                     s
                                     r)l

                                          0
      W                                    "" 4
      W        vi
               m     W       vi    d E
                                   N o    3    m


      g        s
      r-       vi
               N     m       N




      g        x
               N
               0
      t-            0        0

.-e,     Y            cd

.-
E      .-
        E            4
I       c            Y

        .-
'E      'Ec
B      B




0
s       s
        m
        0




s
2       s      s
        W
        LA     0
               c\



 s      s      ::
 2      LA
        d      m
               I.  2        2

        s      s
        0
        m      0
               Q   s\       m


        -s
        m      s
               10
               d   d        cl




                            0

                                                  - 53 -

                               Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                TANZANIA: Accountability, Transparency& IntegrityProject

ATIP will have four components, (a) Strengthening the legal andjudicial system; (b); Enhancing
public financial accountability; (c) StrengtheningOWIs; and (d) Project coordination. The total
cost o f the ATP is US$ 145.6 million, o fwhich IDA through ATIP will provide US$40 million,
while the rest will be fundedby GOTand other development partners. These project components
are described below.

Component 1: Strengthening the legal and judicial system                - $71.3 million (of which
US$24.8 millionwill be funded by IDA)

Component 1has six sub-components or key result areas:

             (i)     Establishment o f a harmonized national legal framework;
             (ii)    Increased access to justice for the poor and the disadvantaged;
             (iii)   Improved governance and administrativejustice;
             (iv)    Improved skills and knowledge of legal professionals;
             (v)     Improved service delivery capacity inkey legal sector institutions; and
             (vi)    Program management, coordination and M&E.

Each o f the above key result areas i s a component o f the GOT'SLSRP.

Sub-component 1: Establishment of a harmonized national legal framework US$ 5.7          -
million

GOTis adopting a comprehensive approach to harmonizing the national legal framework by
amending key legislation, streamlining processes and improving capacity for legal research,
drafting and law reform. The key outcomes are described below:

    (i)      Improvedlegalenvironmentfor enhanced social justice and safety and economic
             development. The LSRP seeks to harmonize the country's legal framework by
             creating linkages among sectors governed by similar legal frameworks. This will
             ensure that all reform programs include a review, update, harmonization and
             alignment o f the respective regulatory frameworks.             The harmonization o f
             commercial laws i s financed under the Business Environment Strengthening in
             Tanzania (BEST) program. BEST i s a five-year private sector development program
             funded by SIDA, Netherlands, DFID, Denmark and the IDA (through the Private
             Sector Competitiveness Project).        The LSRP will implement a comprehensive
             approach to update and harmonize the legal framework in two important respects.
             First, the need for a legal framework enhancing social justice, public safety, and
             economic development, and enhanced independence for legal andjudicial institutions
             has been given prominence. A key aspect o f this covers the activities being carried
             out under the BEST program which include:

             a. Business Registration Reform. Review and revision o f the business registration
                 legal, policy and institutional framework.

                                                    - 54 -

            b. Land Reform. Implementation of selected short and medium term activities for
                the development o f efficient land registration and administration services
                identified under the GOT'S strategic plan for implementation o f land laws,
                including capacity development for district land and housing tribunals to facilitate
                the resolutiono f landdisputes.

            c. Commercial Law and Justice Reform.                     (a)     Review, modernization and
                dissemination o f selected commercial laws and regulations; (b) Development and
                training programs on commercial law and dispute resolution for legal
                professionals in private, public and judicial practice; (c) Provision o f expertise to
                 support priority court systemreform measures, including the revision o f the Civil
                Procedure Code and other related legislation; establishment and operation o f
                 online legal databases; development o f information technologies; upgrading the
                 skills o f law librarians; streamlining o f case law reporting; provision o f training to
                magistrates and court staff and improvement o f court registry systems; and (d)
                Training o f private companies incorporate governance standards and conduct.

            d. Labor Law Reform. Revisiono fthe legal framework governing the labor market,
                 including capacity development to concerned MDAs.

In addition, the LSRP will harmonize laws impeding accessible justice to the poor and the
disadvantaged such as women, children and disabled persons. Key legislation will be identified,
prioritized and reviewed through a consultative process.

The key activities to be implementedunder this sub component are as follows:

Sub-comDonent 1:Establishmentof a harmonizednationallegalframework
Target outcomes                      Key outputs
1. Improved Legal Environment for    1.1 Priority legislations enabling growth o f business sector in Tanzania
enhanced social justice and safety   defined, updated and harmonized.
and economic development.            1.2 Laws impeding justice to the disadvantaged groups (gendermuman
                                     Immunodeficiency      Virus/Acquired    Immune       Deficiency    Syndrome
                                     (HIVIAIDS)) identified and actionplan defined and amended.
2. Strengthened capacity for legal   2.1 Implementation o f Phase I1and I11o f the capacity buildingproject for the
research and Studies1 Review on      Law Reform Commission.
theNational LegalFramework.          2.2 Measures for strengthening legislation processing capacity designed and
                                     implemented.

Implementationo fthis sub-component will contribute to removing overlapping mandates. It will
seek to enhance the independence and autonomy o f legal and judicial institutions, speed up
disposition o f commercial and other disputes and improve the business environment thus
contributing to equitable opportunity to participate ineconomic activities.
Sub-component 2: Increased access to justice for the poor and disadvantaged - US$ 8.3
million

GOTrecognizes the existing measures for enhancing accessibility to justice for the poor and the
disadvantaged that are being implemented by voluntary groups and NGOs. These initiatives
need to be properly promoted, coordinated and managed. Linkages between the LSRP and the
LGRP to support ward tribunals and construction and maintenance o f primary courts based on

                                                - 55 -

the outcomes o f the pilot scheme in Arusha and Manyara Regions are envisaged. They will
enhance accessibility to justice at this level and would serve the majority inthe rural areas.

The reformprogram will improve access to justice particularly for the poor and disadvantaged by
establishing a case flow management system for primary courts, putting in clear guidelines for
handling special cases; promoting the development o f legal aid centers and paralegals;
translating legal information into Kiswahili; and developing o f the primary court system
infrastructure (rehabilitation and construction).

Inthis context, the keyresults to beachieved underthis component include:

    (i)    Improved access to justice for disadvantaged persons. The LSRP will improve
           existing systems for managing cases at primary and district courts through
           establishing case flow management committees at primary courts and strengthening
           existing ones at higher levels.       Within this context, the program will establish
           guidelines for handling special cases for disadvantaged groups. Through the LSRP
           judicial personnel andjustice administrators will be trained on speedy dispensation of
           justice.

    (ii) Enhancedlegalaidfor disadvantagedandpoorpersonsanddisseminationof
           legal information. The LSRP will support the design and implementation o f a well
           regulated and managed program to monitor and promote expansion o f the legal aid
           network for legal aid institutions. The objective will be to ensure an expanded legal
           aid network that covers a large part o f the rural areas and provides access to the
           disadvantaged and the poor. This includes translation and printing o f priority basic
           statutes and legal information inBraille and Kiswahili.

    (iii) Improvedaccesstojusticeintheruralareas. UndertheQuick StartProjectthe
           participation o f LGAs and local communities inimprovingjudiciary infrastructure for
           enhanced access and quality justice in the rural areas was piloted. 'Under the LSRP
           links with LGAs to support effective maintenance o fjudiciary infrastructure will be
           enhanced.

                                                         - 5 6 -

The key activities to beimplementedunder this sub component are as follow^'^:

 Sub-component2: Access to ustice for the poor and disadvantaged
                                         ~~




Target outcomes                       Key outputs
 1. Improved access to justice for    1.1 Guidelines for handling of cases o f disadvantaged groups for all justice
disadvantaged.                        administrators issued.
                                      1.2 Justice administrators trained on speedy dispensation o fjustice for the poor and
                                      unrepresented.
                                      1.3 Case flow management committees for primary courts establishedand reactivated
                                      at the district courts andhigherlevels.
                                      1.4Case flow management committeesreportingcapacities strengthened.
                                      1.5 Streamlinedcase flow managementsystemimplemented.
                                      2.1 Efficacy for establishing the Legal Aid Literacy Network assessed. Legal,
~2. EnhancedlegalIDand dissemination
 of legalinformation.                 information, education and communication packages for legal literacy groups
                                      developedand disseminated.
                                      2.2 Equippedand staffedlegalaid secretariat.
                                      2.3 Legal aid groups andcenters at ward, district andregional level established.
                                      2.4 Code of conduct for members of the legal aid network and procedures for legal
                                      aidiliteracyissuedanddisseminatedthroughpublicationsand seminars.
                                      2.5 Five trainedparalegalsfor each district.
                                      2.6 Legalaid literacyfund launched.
                                      2.7 Nature and scope of work done by NGOs intraining paralegals and dissemination
                                      of legalinformationprofiled.
                                      2.8 Trainingprogramandtrainingmanualsandmodulesfor paralegalsdesigned.
                                      2.9 Training fund for grants to NGO's for paralegal training established.
                                      2.10Training of paralegalsat the Ward, District andRegional levels.
                                      2.11 Publicationof paralegaltrainingandactivitiesthrough the media.
                                      2.12 Basic statutes and legal information translated, printed in Swahili and Braille
                                      form anddisseminated.
 3.   Improved access to justice in   3.1 Programof assistance for enhancingefficiency of ward tribunals in administering
      the rural areas.                justice designed.
                                      3.2 Measures for enhancingefficiency o f ward tribunals in administration ofjustice
                                      implemented.
                                      3.3 Working tools for ward tribunalsprovided.
                                      3.4 Trainedward tribunalmembersandsecretaries.
                                      3.5 Community based mechanism for continuous support to the lower courts
                                      inArusha andManyaraRegion.
                                      3.6 Selected priority primary courts rehabilitated /constructed/equipped.

 Sub-component3: Improvedgovernanceandadministrativejustice-US$7.9 million

 The LSRP will support implementation o f the NACSAP in its fight against corruption
 specifically in legal and judicial institutions by enhancing transparency in the administration o f
 justice through the following interventions:

                Enhanced good governance in legayjudicial institutions. The program will
                support implementation o f the institutional strengthening strategies spelled out inthe
                NACSAP. These include: (a) promoting practical use o f client service charters in
                service delivery in legal and judicial institutions; (b) simplifying service delivery
                procedures; (c) undertaking awareness programs for the general public in
                collaboration with the reform program information education and communication
                unit;and (d) creating amechanism for lodging complaints against misuse o fpower or
                unethical conduct by legal institution personnel.


 "LSRPactivitiesrelatedtocriminaljustice(police, prisons, prosecution,juvenilecases)andhumanrightsare
 omitted as ATIP will not finance them.

                                                       - 57 -


      (ii) Coordinatedand organizedadministrativejustice system. The program will
               develop a basic set o f procedures for administrative tribunals including ward
               tribunals; identify priority needs for enhancing timely justice by administrative
               tribunals with a view to promote effective decision-making and establishing a
               monitoring mechanism for the administrative justice system.                      This will include
               assessing the efficacy for establishing an administrative appellate body.

 The key activities to be implementedunderthis sub-component are as follows:
I Sub-component        3: Improvedgovernance andadministrativejustice
 Target outcomes                      Key outputs
  1. Enhanced good governance in      1.1   Procedures for legal and judicial institutions simplified translated into
 the legal andjudicial institutions.  SwahiliBraille languagesanddisseminated.
                                      1.2 Guidelines for lodging complaints against misuse of powers and un-ethical
                                      conductsby legalsector institutionpersonnelinplace.
                                      1.3 Client servicechartersalignedwith simplified procedures.
                                      1.4 Revisedclient service chartersprintedanddistributed.
  2.    Coordinated and organized     2.1 Basic set of procedures and guidelines for administrative tribunal operations
  administrative justice system       prepared.
                                      2.2 Programof capacity developmentfor administrativetribunalsimplemented.
                                      2.3 Program review of assistance for capacity building for administrative tribunals
                                      undertaken.

  The LSRP will finance the design and implementation o f a computerized complaints
  management system and implementation of client service charters for legal and judicial
  institutions. Funding will also be provided for the establishment of an information, education
  and communication (IEC) program.

  Implementation o f this sub-component will result in reduced incidence o f corrupt practices in
  legal andjudicial institutions as reportedinthe NACSAP quarterly reports; improved quality and
  relevance o f resolutions o f administrative tribunals; and ethical conduct by legal and judicial
 personnel.
  Sub-component 4: Improved skills and knowledge of legalprofessionals - US$ 7.8 million

  The LSRP will improve the quality o f legal and judicial services in line with the needs o f a
  growing market economy by enhancing knowledge and skills o f legal professionals.                                 The
  program will support improvements in legal training institutions, including establishing an
  effective practical training program for law graduates together with strengthening the capacity o f
  the CLE to effectively regulate legal training and practice in Tanzania. In addition, the program
  will support the creation o f an effective mechanism for continuing legal education for practicing
  lawyers and other staff inthe legal/judicial institutions. The outcomes will be:

      (i)      Qualitylegal training by legal education and training institutionsdelivered. The
               program will enhance the effectiveness o f the Council o f Legal Education in
               controlling the quality o f legal training and education in the country by:                           (a)
               establishing a full-time secretariat, independent from the Judiciary, supported by
               necessary technical, human and financial resources; (b) designing national curricula
               for legal training institutions to improve the quality o f legal training for all requisite

                                                 - 58 -

           qualifications; and (c) designing and implementing specialized training programs for
           legal andjudiciary support staff.

    (ii)   Improved practical skills training for law graduates. The program will support
           the establishment o f a law school, initially using temporary premises under the
           auspices o f the CLE and thereafter constructing permanent premises for the law
           school.     The school will provide a structured practical training program to law
           graduates from both public and private universities leading to bar examinations. The
           program will also assess the feasibility o f creating two distinct categories o f legal
           practitioners, namely, advocates and solicitors, to cope with the diversified demands
           for legal services inthe country. The LSRP will fund the construction and equipping
           o f the law school and training o f staff inspecialized areas.

    (iii)  Improved capacity to offer continuing education programs. The program will
           strengthen the capacity for legal training institutions to provide continuing legal
           education for professional and non-professional staff. Use will be made o f the results
           o f a training needs assessment that has been conducted in the Faculties o f Law o f the
           University o f Dar es Salaam, University o f Mzumbe, the Open University o f
           Tanzania, and the Institute o f Judicial Administration (IJA) inLushoto.

The key activities that will be implemented under this sub-component are as follows:




                                       ised curriculum and syllabi for each legal training institution.
                                       y academic stafftrained in specialized legal areas.
                                       timum levels of operations determined and action plan for each training




The LSRP will finance the establishment o f the secretariat for continuing legal education. In
addition, the law school will be constructed and equipped. Its legal academic staff will be
trained in specialized areas. Prior to undertaking this activity, government would have to
demonstrate that it has budgeted for staff and associated operations and maintenance costs
relatedto establishing the law school.

As a result there would be an increased number and quality o f law graduates, diversified legal
services available to meet the needs o f the people, increased number o f qualified primary court
magistrates and continuous quality improvements inthe legal profession.

                                              - 59 -


Sub-component 5: Improved service delivery capacity in key legal institutions - US$ 38.2
million

The objective o f this sub-component is to develop capacity to provide quality services by
enhancing management and coordination o f legal and judiciary, enhancing competence,
motivation and integrity o fpersonnel and improving their work environment.

   (i)    Improved organization and support services for effective service delivery. The
          LSRP in collaboration with the BEST program will promote specialization in the
          court system by expanding the commercial division o f the High Court, the
          Government-funded Land Court division and improving the legal registries. This
          KRA also provides for the installation of an integrated management information
          system to promote effective communication and management o f legal and judicial
          institutions.

   (ii)   Enhanced competence, motivation and integrity of personnel. The program in
          collaboration with PO-PSM will support institutionalization o f a meritocratic system
          for personnel management including staff training related to performance criteria and
          career development plans. In addition, support will be provided to assess means to
          attract, retain and motivate legal andjudicial staff. Recommendations on appropriate
          incentives to address this particular problem would be made to PO-PSM.

   (iii)  Improved working environment. The program will support improvements in the
          law libraries through retooling and supporting the publication o f Tanzania Law
          Reports and preparation o f case digests. The program will support improvements in
          office accommodation through construction and equipping o f a new Court o f Appeal
          building, rehabilitation or construction o f priority zonal high court centers, resident
          magistrates', district and primary courts infrastructure.   Appropriate strategies for
          improving office accommodation facilities at the Zonal Chambers o f the Attorney-
          General will be developed. In collaboration with the BEST program, the program
          will expand Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) services to the
          regional level.

                                                         - 60 -

The key activities to be implementedunder this sub-component include:



Target outcomes                        Key outputs
1. Improved organization and support    1.1 Integrated Management Information System for legal and judicial institutions
services for effectiveservicedelivery. operationalized.
                                        1.2Measuresfor strengtheningadministrativesupport systems implemented.
                                        1.3 Measures for strengtheningsupervisionand division of work in sector institutions
                                       implemented.
                                        1.4Measures for strengtheningrevenueretention schemes implemented.
                                        2.1 Meritocratic personnel management system for legal and judicial institutions
andintegrity of personnel.             established.
                                       2.2 Qualified and competent personnel recruited.
                                       2.3 Newremunerationpackage for legalandjudicial institutionsapplied.
                                        2.4 Legalandjudicial personneltrainedin specialized skills.
                                       2.6 Framework for securing accommodation and transport for magistrates and state
                                       attorneys.
3. ImprovedWorking Environment.         3.1 Action plan for modernizing and equipping law libraries prepared and
                                       implemented.
                                       3.2 Mechanismfor continuous updatingof Law Reports, Case Digest andrevisedlaws
                                       reactivated.          \
                                        3.3 The Court of Appeal and other priority judiciary infrastructure constructed and
                                        equipped.
                                        3.4 Office space and equipmentsrequirementsfor zonal offices of AGC specified.
                                        3.5 Office scheme for zonalAttorney General's offices approved and implemented.
                                        3.6 Action plan for alterations or rehabilitationsor constructionand equippingoffices
                                        of the LegalRegistries preparedandimplemented.
                                        3.7 Equipped, furnishedand constructedrehabilitatedOffices for the LegalRegistries.


Sub-component 6: Project coordination (US$3.4 million)

The objective o f this sub-component i s to promote cohesion, collaboration and coordination to
attain effective and efficient implementationo f the MediumTerm Strategy. It aims at achieving
the following key outcomes:

     (0         Effective implementation of reforms by legal and judicial institutions. The
                program will support the development o f staff skills, knowledge and provide the
                necessary toolshystems in the LSRP implementing institutions to enable them to
                strengthen their capacity for implementation. These institutions will also be helped to
                develop their strategic plans and annual work plans and budgets with a view to
                incorporating objectives o f the LSRP inthese plans andbudget. Activities will aim at
                developing their capacity for strategic planning.

     (ii) Effectivemanagement,coordination,monitoringandevaluation. Theprogram
                will establish management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation mechanisms in
                each o f the implementing institutions that are mainstreamed within the existing
                institutional and organizational structures. All lead agencies will be accountable for
                effective implementation o frespective activities andprograms intheir key result area.

      (iii) Enhancedpolicyandstrategicleadershipinlegalandjudicialinstitutions. The
                program will enhance policy coordination in the legal and judicial institutions by
                drafting a policy to govern the activities o f the legal institutions. It will also support

                                               - 61 -

            capacity buildingto strengthen evidence based policy making inthe legal andjudicial
            institutions.

            Enhanced information, communication and education on the legal sector
            reforms and development. The program will establish an information, education
            and communication (IEC) program to create awareness amongst the public o f the
            legal and judicial reforms. The IEC program will also seek to involve the people in
            providing feedback on the reform activities and outcomes, to enable management
            make improvements and adjustments in the design and implementation approaches.
            The IEC program will be implementedthrough multiplemedia channels and physical
            outreach activities.

            Enhanced capacities for change management in legal and judicial institutions.
            Legal andjudicial systems and institutions are fairly complex innature and require an
            effective system to bring about the changes necessary for the reform process. The
            program will build the capacity o f staff in lead implementing agencies in change
            management to enable them to champion the reform program. Change management
            skills are essential to ensure the reforms take off, build momentum in the shortest
            time possible and are well organized to achieve the desired outcomes.

The project will finance capacity building activities for management and policy making, for
establishing a change management program and establishing and implementing an IEC for the
reform program. Financingwill also beprovided for monitoring and evaluation o f the program.

Implementation o f this sub component will result ineffective and efficient communication o f the
reform programs within legal andjudicial institutions and with the public at large and improved
capacity o f legal andjudicial staff in implementing the program. It will also result in improved
monitoring and evaluation o f the program results.
Component2: Enhancingpublicfinancialaccountability-US$68.9 million (of which US$
10.0 millionwill be fundedby IDA)

ATP will support the implementation o f the PFMRP incollaboration with other DPs through a
SWAP with a pooled funds arrangement.             The PFMRP's main goal is to improve the
management o f public financial resources for economic growth, public service delivery and
poverty reduction. The PFMRP aims at improving the strategic orientation o f the M o F to
provide leadership in implementingpublic financial management across government and ensure
its efforts are coordinated with other reform programs and sector initiatives. Implementation o f
the PFMRPwill result inan enhanced capacity o f the MoF to manage public financial resources
inan effective, transparent and accountable manner and associated improvements inthe MDAs
public financial management capacity. It will also result in a strengthened capacity o f the NAO
to perform its oversight function effectively. The PFMRP strategic plan draws on the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),          Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR), and the IMF's Report on Observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC) analyses and
recommendations.

                                                            - 62 -

The PFMRP includes the following sub-components, referred to as "key strategic goals" in the
PFMRP strategic program document`*:

         (i)      Improved capacity inthe MoF for sound macro economic and fiscal management;
         (ii)     Devolved decision-making and accountability for resources to MDAs;
         (iii)    Improvedpredictability o fresources to MDAs;
         (iv)     Enhancedvalue for money (VFM) inthe use o fpublic resources;
         (v)      Reduced dependency on external financing; and
         (vi)     Capacity          for    sustained      improvements      in management               and     program
                  implementation.

Sub-component 1: Improved capacity in the MoF for sound macro economic and fiscal
management (US$6.6million)

The GOThas done a commendable job in achieving macro-economic stabilisation. However,
without a strategic perspective, gains made could be lost. Against this backdrop, an intended
result o f the program i s that GOT'Smacro-economic framework continues to ensure that the
economy i s stable. This i s a prerequisite for securing high and/or sustainable levels o f growth,
employment and investments in public services including poverty reducing interventions. To
this end, the program will focus on developing and implementing a thorough basis for
formulating, monitoring and adjusting tight monetary and fiscal policies which are credible, and
ensure sustained low levels o f inflation and effective management o fpublic finances.

One o f the PFMRP's objectives is to ensure that the country's macroeconomic framework
remains stable inthe medium-term. This sub-component aims at improving the capacity o f M o F
in macroeconomic and fiscal policy that will enable improved decision-making towards
preserving a stable macroeconomic framework. PFMRP will build the capacity o f MoF in
macroeconomic management, fiscal policy management and will establish the institutional
framework for debt management. This will be achieved by improving staff skills in policy
analysis, monitoring and economic forecasting. The program will also provide forecasting tools
and establish an institutional mechanism for monitoring, reporting and for stakeholder
consultation.




  These key strategic goals are further broken down, in the MOU for the PFMRP, in 10 intermediate outcomes, namely: policy
analysis and development; external resources management; budget management; treasury management and accounting;
procurement; information technology services; investment management; administrative support services; external audit services;
and program leadership, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

                                                             - 63 -

 Expected outputs from this sub-component are as follows:
ISub-component 1: Improved capacity in the MoF for sound macro economic and fiscal

                                          Key Outputs
 1 Macro-fiscal forecasting and policy    1.1 Improved macro-economic forecasting models and tools.
 development capacity is strengthened to  1.2 New tools for methodical fiscal forecasting o f revenue and expenditure.
 achieve a more reliable and sustainable  1.3 A more sound fiscal planning process.
 macroeconomic planning framework.        1.4Revised principles of revenue, expenditure and financing policies.
                                          1.5 Research and policy developments on monetary-fiscal coordination;
                                          and on emerging macro-fiscal issues; and follow-up on execution of
                                          budget policy issues.
                                          1.6 Integrationo f the fiscal decentralization work plan.
                                          1.7 Civil society participation inthe budget preparation process strengthened.
                                          1.8 PAD staff computer literacy and competency with computer systems.
                                          and software (Windows, MS-Suite, AREMOS-XLS) enhanced.
                                          2.1 Debt Policy Analysis centralized inPAD.
 effective debt management practices      2.2 New National Debt Strategy.
 established.                             2.3 Debt sustainability policies and system.
                                          2.4 Strategy to develop financial markets.
                                          2.5 Debts verified as part o fNational debt Strategy.
                                          2.6 Active and effective participation in Paris Club and Non-Paris Club Debt
                                          Negotiations.
                                          2.7 Effective Government participation in securities markets.
                                          2.8 Effective secretariat to Technical Debt Management Committee.
                                          (TDMC) and National Debt Management Committee (NDMC) and Highly Indebted
                                          Poor Country (HIPC) relief tracking.
                                          2.9 Updated profile o f Government debt stock, debt schedule and
                                          Government's on-lending operations.
 3. Appropriate domestic revenue          3.1 Resultso f assessment of the socio-economic impact o f tax and non-tax policies.
 policies and legal instruments and tight 3.2 Models and other quantitative tools to assess the economic and revenue effects of
 institutional links within MoF           tax policies and assess the incidence on savings and investment, income distribution,
 (PAD & Department o f Legal              regional economic development.
 Services), and between the MoF, the      3.3 Treasury Voucher System extended, and strategy and modalities to transform it
 Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA)         into an explicit budget allocation regime developed.
 and the Attorney General's               3.4 A transparent policy and administration framework for fiscal incentives (e.g. to
 Department.                              convert Government Notices (GNs) into tax regulations and schedules; and centralize
                                          tax exemptions inthe MoF).
                                          3.5 A detailed GN database, and a repository o f legal instruments and other reference
                                          materials operational.
 4. Enhanced appropriate expenditure      4.1 A framework for development o f appropriate expenditure policies, and systems for
 frame, allocations and management.       tracking and effective consultations and communications with stakeholders.
                                          4.2 Sector expenditure targets set within fiscal frame constraints and aligned with
                                          PER-MTEF priorities4.3 A framework to translate sector allocations into ministries.
                                          program, economic and functional allocations.
                                          4.4 Reporting and accountability systems on use o f budget funds to confirm alignmen1
                                          with priorities.
                                          4.5 Full integration of financial information management system.

 Funds will be provided under the project to build a robust macroeconomic and fiscal model,
 institutionalizing dialogue processes with stakeholders, implementing the new debt strategy and
 rationalizing the tax exemptions regime.

 Sub-component 2: Devolved decision-making and accountability for resources to MDAs (US$
 26.0 million)

 This sub-component seeks to (i)           improve the capacity o f MDAs inpublic financial management,
 and (ii) that MDAs are accountable for the public financial resources they manage.
            ensure

                                                           - 64 -


Under the PSRP and LGRP, MDAs and local government authorities respectively, have been
empowered to take the lead in managing for results within an environment where resources will
remain constrained in the medium-term. It i s in this spirit that the PFMRP will seek to shift
away from the control orientation impliedbythe strict virement rules currently enforced on vote-
holders.      The program will also consolidate and build on the gains made from the IFMS
initiative, to expand its functionality to facilitate MDAs' and local governments' managements
to realise their results focussed agendas, including supporting the anticipated adoption in the
long-term o f accruals accounting.

Inrecognition that buildingthe necessary management capacity remains achallenge, the PFMRP
will deepen capability in the internal audit function at MDA level, enhance utility and demand
for financial management information through initiatives that heighten awareness and
understanding, and strengthen financial management capability through the development o f a
cohort o f professionals inthat function with the right blendo f experience and skills. Also, given
the strategic imperative to implement a solid policy and strategy for fiscal decentralisation, the
program will support monitoring o f the system o f intergovernmentaltransfers.

The expected outputs from this sub-component are as follows:

Sub-component2: Devolved ecision-makingand accountabilityfor resourcesto MDAs
Intermediateoutcomes                    Key Outputs
1. Improvedhuman resource capacity      1.1 Training programs and systems for modernizing financial management training.
development for enhanced IFMS           1.2 Public Debt staff trained inand have relevant knowledge and skills
application.                            1.3 More Government accounting staff from regions and local authorities enabled to
                                        improve professional knowledge and skills.
                                        1.4 Systems Development Unit (SDU) enabled to carry out its responsibilities
                                        effectively and structured to complement systems development and facilitate
                                        training in user departments.
                                        1.5 IFMS users in MDAs, sub treasuries and local authorities provided with
                                        continuous training and monitored.
                                        1.6 The number and competence o f professional and technical staff o f the
                                        department increased
2. Public Financial Management best     2.1 Computerized Government Accounting System extended and maintained as a
practices promoted and enhancement o f  secure, timely and efficient system.
stakeholders' participation.            2.2 Plan and roll out for improved IThardware and data communications taking into
                                        account the existing investment, current constraints and future requirements.
3. Conducive working environment        3.1 The IFMS inall MDAs improved on continuous basis.
ensured for efficient and effective     3.2 Integrated planning, budgeting and accounting piloted and institutionalized in
services delivery.                      select LGAs (also see Component 3 - 1.5).
4,Financial management framework        4.1 Results of a major review o f staffing levels, skills responsibilities and other
and systems throughout the government   resource requirements.
are more efficient, effective and       4.2 Improvedoperation o f IFMS inthe government.
sustainable.                            4.3 Audit and accounting manuals rolled out to MDAs.
                                        4.4 MDAs' fixed assets identified, valued and bar coded.
                                        4.5 Mainstreaming o f assets and procurement modules o f IFMS effected as well as
                                        interfacing o f other government applications.
                                        4.6 Accountant General and Bank of Tanzania (BOT)debt data reconciled.
5. Improved accounting o f Vote 23,50   5.1 Staff in the Accounting Unit have the skills needed for efficient, effective and
and pension funds to ensure that the    accountable management o f the funds.
MoF's i s a role model inaccounting for 5.2 Accounting Department has necessary equipment.
funds

To achieve the above, the project will fund the expansion o f the IFMS functionality to enable
accrual accounting and interfacing it with the macro-fiscal system and the debt management

                                                        - 65 -

system. Funding will also be provided for consultancy services to establish benchmarks for
financial and performance reports in MDAs, making internal audit committees operational in
MDAs, preparing a curriculum for training finance and non-finance personnel and training
public financial management professionals.
Sub-component 3: Improvedpredictability of resources to MDAs (US$2.9 million)

The objective o f this sub-component i s to improve the predictability o f resource flows by
strengtheninglinkages betweenthe MTEF, MKUKUTA and poverty monitoring system (PMS).
These linkages will provide a basis for promoting a more systematic process for resource
planningand prioritization neededto achieve policy objectives and desired results. The PFMRP
will also focus on capturing all development assistance channelled directly to projects and
programs in GOT'Sbudget and accounting framework. In tandem, the PFMRP will deepen
stakeholders' understandingand ability to appreciate the budget process and its results.

The program will also focus on capturing all development assistance channelled directly to
projects and programs in Government's budget and accounting framework. In tandem, the
PFMRP will deepen stakeholders' understanding and ability to implement the government's
program.

The GOTanticipates the successful completion o f the interventions above will inthe long-term
result in the phasing out of the current cash budget system. Another expected long-term result
will be zero or insignificant differences between budget allocations and actual expenditures for
MDAs and LGAs.

The following will bethe outputs from this sub-component:

Sub-component3: Improvc L predictabilityof resources to MDAs
Intermediateoutcomes               Key Outputs
1. Improved planning and budget    1.1 Results o f the review o f existing content o f budget databases and processes and a follow-
preparation for better expenditure upprogram for agreed recommendations.
outcomes.                          1.2 The PER Secretariat strengthened and consolidated.
                                   1.3 Plan for strengthening MTEF - integrated recurrent / development budget, MDAs
                                   requirements and implications for IFMS budget module development.
                                   1.4 Capacity inMDAs for priority-setting, budgeting and expenditure management.
                                   1.5 Integrated planning, budgeting and accounting piloted and institutionalized in select
                                   LGAs (also see Component 4 3.2.).
                                                                   -
                                   1.6 A plan for decentralizing budget envelopes to high performers and a roll out plan for
                                   institutional change inremaining LGAs.
                                   1.7 Strategic plans o f M D A s have the performance indicators required every three years by
                                   M o F and are linked with MTEFtargets.
                                   1.8 Results o f a review o f other government institutions and executive agencies' budgets and
                                   recommendations on revisions to legislation, regulations and procedures.
                                   1.9 A systematic capacity buildingprogram at sector level on MTEF process and procedures
                                   implemented.
                                   1.10 Improved staff skills.
                                   1.1lBudget reclassified in accordance with the updated version of Government Finance
                                   Statistics (GFS) economic and functional codes implemented in MDAs.
                                   1.12 Budget Committees strengthened.
                                   1.13 Tools for mainstreaming gender inthe budget process installed in all MDAs.
                                   1.14 Objective criteria for resource allocation for selected servicedactivities in collaboration
                                   with other reforms.

                                                     - 66 -


2. Establishedeffective budget     2.1 Expendituretracking studies andtheir follow-up actions.
executionandmonitoringmechanisms.  2.2 PER carriedout as aroutine annualactivity.
                                   2.3 Strategicperformanceindicatorsfor MDAs across sectors introduced.
                                   2.4 Resultsof periodicphysicaland financialmonitoringof MKUKUTA.
                                   2.5 Computerbased analytical capacitywithin Budget Department installed.
                                   2.6MDAs capacity inbudgetplanning, executionandreportingphasesdeveloped.

The project will fund the design and implementation o f a management information system for
external assistance that i s easily accessible and facilitates planning and decision-making.

Sub-component 4: Enhanced value for money (VFM) in the use of public resources (US$
21.0 million)

Inthe areaofVFM, akeyimperativeis to pushpublic service managers towards amore strategic
orientation in the use of public resources. In particular, in the medium-term, Epicor's active
planner will be further customised to enable enhanced budget analysis.                        Furthermore, the
PFMRP will spearhead the redesign o f the budgeting and reporting processes to enhance their
results orientation. Specifically, this intervention is expected to contribute towards ensuringthat
the MTEF supports Government in attaining efficiency and effectiveness in services delivery.
Also, during budget implementation, the program will, through a combination o f monitoring at
MDA level, PERs, VFM audits and overhauled procurement systems engender an ethos o f
accountability for: procuring resources under the most cost-effective terms; delivering maximum
outputs from planned activities and associated inputs; and achieving outcomes specified at each
MDA's, local government's and program's planning stage. A key anticipated long-term result
will.beminimal or no lossesresulting from public procurement.

For the foreseeable future, Government will continue to divest some o f its shareholdings in
parastatals, retaining a strategic interest in utility parastatals, as well as a full interest in
Government institutions. In doing so, its efforts will be focussed on: maximising returns by
investing prudently and preserving capital; ensuring divestiture meets its objectives (i.e. to
promote competition, encourage public and private sector participation etc.); foster productivity;
and ensure sound management o f institutions.

The kev outmts from this sub-comDonent are as follows:
Sub-component4: Enhancec value for money (VFM) inthe use of public resources
Intermediateoutcomes           `   Key Outputs
1,Procurementpracticesprovide       1.1 A Regulatory Authority (RA) with appropriate functions and powers
governmentwith improvedvalue for   operationalized.
money inaccordance with the new     1.2 Revised standard bidding documents and procurement guidelines and user
PublicProcurementAct.              manualsprepared.
                                   1.3 PublicProcurementAppeals Authority (PPAA) established.
                                   1.4 A system for checking and monitoring MDAs and LGAs developed and
                                   implemented.
                                   1.5 Anticorruption strategy inprocurement developed and implemented.
                                   1.6 An MIS developed andimplemented.
                                   1.7 Competentprofessionalstaffof RA appointed andtrained.
                                   1.8 Supplies units transformedinto ProcurementManagement Units
                                   (PMUs).
                                   1.9A systemfor procurement of common items in MDAs established.
2. Procurementcapacitydevelopedin  2.1 Procurementcadre establishedinconsultationwith the PO-PSM.
the country.                       2.2 Procurementprofessionalbody established.
                                   2.3 Procurementcapacitybuilding strategydeveloped and implemented.

                                                       - 67 -


Sub-component 5:Reduced dependency on externalfinancing (US$2.6 million)

This sub-component's objective i s to improve the management o f external funds to ensure they
effectively contribute to national economic development.                        A key perspective shared by
stakeholders is that ten years from now, Tanzania will be less dependent on external financing.
The PFMRPwill support improvements inthe effective management o f external financing, with
a view to promoting untiedaid, ensuringpredictability o f aid flows and reducingparallel systems
and structures for implementingdevelopment projects. The program will emphasize directing
aid utilisation to the most productive investments and reducing debt servicing to sustainable
levels.     In addition, it will support the enhanced mobilisation of domestic resources by
broadening GOT'Stax base and at the same time ensuring its simplicity and equitability. This
will implyrationalization o fthe tax exemptions regime.

The followingkey activities will beimplemented:


Intermediateoutcomes                 Key Outputs
1. Increasedproportion of external   1.1 Strengthenedcapacityfor externalresourcemanagement and accountability.
finance recordedinthe government
budget and exchequer system.
2. JAS understandingincreasedamong   2.1 An effective JAS understandingand awareness campaign.
MDAs, LGAs and Civil society.
3. Improvedpractices indevelopment   3.1 UpdatedTAS and TAS action plan.

4. Enhancedaccess to information on  4.1 A more robust externalaid flow database.
aid flows.                           4.2 Security and maintenance of the Microsoft Access database.
5 Improvedperformance of staff inthe 5.1 Higher quality and motivated of staff inthe department.



Under the program, funds will be provided to enable MoF to take leadership in prioritizing,
coordinating and managing external financing and rationalizing the tax exemption regime.

Sub-component 6: Capacity for sustained improvements in management and program
implementation (US$9.8 million)

This strategic goal seeks to strengthen the leadership, management and monitoring and
evaluation capacity of the MoF to implement the PFMRP. The program will seek to effect
changes inthe organizational culture o f the M O F and inthe implementingMDAs with respect to
public financial management. In this respect, the program will endeavour to enhance strategic
leadership; consult internal and external stakeholders, conduct an IEC campaign; inform and fine
tune the PFMRP by adopting an M&E framework; introduce needs-based human resource
capacity development interventions; utilize more effectively management information systems,
including Information Technology (IT); and promote a culture o f ethics, integrity and
accountability.

The following key activities will be implemented:

                                                             - 68 -


Sub-component 6: Capacity for sustained improvements in management and program
implementation
Intermediateoutcomes                      Key Outputs
1. Optimize and deploy Government         1.1 Department o f Computer Services (DCS) mandate reviewed.
Information       and    Communication    1.2 DCS staff requirements established.
Technologies     (ICT)   in support   o f 1.3 DCS staff trained and equipped to improve on their competence in managing and
efficient, effective decision making and  maintaining ICTresources.
service delivery.
2. Expanded Network connectivity and      2.1 DCS staff trained inon network utilization.
Information sharing and integration.      2.2 Improved online access to information.
3. Government Management                  3.1 ICTpolicy formulated and approved.
Information Systems are secure and        3.2 Disaster Recovery Procedures formulated and implemented.
have a contingency plan and disaster      3.3 Back-up systems installed.
recovery procedures.                      3.4 MoF network security inplace.
4. Improved M I S for the MoF.            4.1 MoF Records Management InformationSystem installed.
                                          4.2 Inventory (stock verification) MIS installed.
                                          4.3 An integrated investmentdatabase system installed.
                                          4.4 Treasury Registrar's records MIS implemented.
                                          4.5 All MoF leadership and technical staff trained and capable o f utilizing the ICT
                                          facilities.
                                          5.1 Generic outputs o f the PSRP,             including policy pronouncements and
capacity to deliver public financial      implementationo f the Performance Management System.
management services established.          5.2 Staff who are more ethical, disciplined and motivated to perform.
                                          5.3 Ministry has capacity for change management and carries out strategic changes
                                          needed.
                                          5.4 Results o f review o f the establishment o f the ministry to ensure adequate numbers
                                          o f staff and vacancies are filled.
                                          5.5 A succession planfor key MoF staff.
                                          5.6 A personnel database, with a users' guide and staff trained in the use o f the
                                          system.
                                          5.7 A gender affirmative action plan.
                                          5.8 Participatorytraining approaches and methods adopted inthe Ministry.
                                          5.9 Awareness o f risks and impact o f HIViAIDS and reduction HIV/AIDS
                                          transmission among staff.
                                          5.10 Staff sponsored to leadership, management and operational training courses for
                                          different levels o f staff and include these in the Human Resources (HR) strategy for
                                          MoF.
                                          5.11 Staff inM o F have awareness o f employment rights issues.
                                          5.12 Office environment improvedand maintenance plans designed and implemented.
                                          5.13 Necessary equipment, facilities and technical capacity installed.
6. Efficient and effective Records        2.1 Records Management System for the MoF improved.
Management Information System at
MoF.
7. Enhanced integrity and ethical         3.1 Anti-corruption strategy is effectively implemented.
conduct o f MoF staff.                    3.2 Ethical conduct policy implemented and rolled out to sub-treasuries.
8 Effective leadership and coordination   1.1 Coordination Secretariat established and operational.
o f the program.                          1.2 Leaders and top management o f M O F have the knowledge and are facilitation tc
                                          provide effective policy and strategic leadership and coordination o f the PFMRP.
9. Stakeholders' awareness.               2.1 Regular broad-based and adequate communication to stakeholders.
10. Effective M&E o f the program.        3.1 M&E System inplace and operational within PFMRP.



Component 3: StrengtheningOWIs - IDA US$ 4.6 million (of which US$ 4.6 million will
be fundedbyIDA)

ATP will support the strengthening o f oversight and watchdog institutions (OWIs) to improve
domestic accountability, particularly with respect to the crosscutting reforms, i.e., LSRP,

                                                          - 69 -

PFMRP, PSRP andNACSAP19. This program aims at ensuringthat OWIs are well informed of
public sector performance and hence able to effectively hold government accountable by
interventions aimed at (i)       generating and disseminating quality information on performance and
outcomes o f government, centered on the crosscutting reforms; and (ii)improving ethical
environment in both public and private sectors, by supporting improvement in the capacity o f
professional organizations to raise the level o f ethics o f their members using self-regulatory
ethics mechanisms, continuing education programs and more broadly IEC programs aimed at the
broader public; and (iii)        generally improving the capacity o f OW1 staff in undertaking their
hnctions. OWIs that will potentially benefit from this component include Parliament and its
committees, the PCB, professional associations, the media and civil society organizations.

Sub-component 1: Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency - IDA US$ 4.0
million

To achieve the above objective, a flexible Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency
(FEAT) will be established and housedwithin the ES. The fundswill be available on a demand-
driven basis for activities related to the above objectives. FEAT activities will be coordinated
with other development partner programs ,through the DP accountable governance working
group. Although other DPs have been supporting OWIs, their activities are still insufficient to
warrant establishment of a pooled fundingmechanism.

Generation and dissemination of quality information. The FEAT will support OWIs in
generating data, including statistics and other types o f information that confirm results of
government policies and initiatives in all the crosscutting reform areas. It will also fund Civil
Society Organizations' (CSOs) activities to disseminate the findings from studies and other key
government accountability documents such as the N A O report. This i s expected to increase
public awareness of the reforms, lead to effective dialogue between informed OWIs and GOTin
domestic policy-making processes and build domestic accountability. It will also hnd capacity
development o f OW1 staff to improve their skills related to their functions as oversight and
watchdogs. This will include targeted short-term training programs locally and within the Africa
region that are aimed at improving the performance o f OWIs indomestic accountable activities.

Improvementin the ethics of membersof professionalassociations. The FEAT will support
capacity development of professional associations to promote ethics amongst their members and
thereby influencing the quality o f ethics in the public service. Professional associations will be
supported to implement self-regulatory mechanisms and development programs for their
members. The funds could also be used for IEC and M&E activities related to the roles and
responsibilities o f professional associations.             Depending on the level o f development o f the
respective professional associations, the nature o f support i s likely to differ including helping
them develop as associations. The program will also support capacity building programs for
professionals as groups that aim at improving the ethical dimensions o f the respective
professions based on the identified needs withinthe context o f the associations.



''OWIsare    defined to include state oversight institutions such as Parliament, PCB, NAO, CHRGG, Ethics
Secretariat and non-state actors such as the media and civil society organizations. Support to Parliament will be
targeted to the Parliamentary service, the operational arm which supports the legislature,

                                                - 70 -

The ES will oversee the use of the Facility. The ES is an inter-ministerial department under the
President's Office established by Article 132 of the Constitution. The Secretariat is charged with
powers to administer the ethical conduct o f public leaders as defined by the Public Leadership
Code o f Ethics Act, No. 13 o f 1995. The Secretariat, beingthe host o f the FEAT, will not be one
o f the beneficiaries of the fund. Pertinently, technical expertise will be provided to help the
Secretariat set up the FEAT and also for strengthengenerally its capacity under sub-component
2.

The ES will be reporting to a high-level technical steering committee chaired by the Ethics
Commissioner that will approve applications to the FEAT. To reduce the possibility that the
funds will be captured by a specific agency the technical steering committee will include
membersfrom (i) Government, i.e., Head o f GGCU, Director o f Ethics (PO-PSM), registrar
                   the
of NGOs; (ii)  non-governmental sector-one from the NGO council and one from the Tanzania
Business Council.     The secretary o f the ES would be a non-voting member and honorary
secretary to the Committee.

To ensure that all activities to be funded are in line with ATIP's objectives, the FEAT manual
will have criteria for institutional as well as activity eligibility. Institutions that will be eligible
for funding will need to show evidence o f their status as non-profit NGOs. They should have
been registered at least for one year and with audited accounts and financial statements. They
should also be able to contribute at least 10% o f the activity costs in cash or in kind. Political
parties, firms andindividuals will not be eligible for funding.

FEAT will fund activities that seek to achieve the ATIP's development objective and that
address the information gap or seek to improve the ethics environment in the country as
mentioned above. Specific eligible and ineligible activities are reflected in Annex 6. A more
comprehensive list of criteria and modalities to access the facility are included inthe Operations
Manual. Successful OWIs will sign a grant agreement that will give the Secretariat the right to
suspend or cancel disbursementswhere funds are not usedfor the intendedpurposes.

OWIs will access the funds by submittingapplications. Guidelines and formats for applications
will be issued to OWIs. The guidelineswill include a negative list o fwhat FEAT will not fund,
as well as the criteria o f evaluation o f the proposals. Detailed institutional arrangements are
described inAnnex 6.

The Bank would review the implementationo f this component approximately 12-18 months after
the first disbursements with a view to assess the demand for the FEAT. Since the facility is an
innovative approach it will be important to assess the strengths and weaknesses o f the
mechanism in order to make the necessary adjustments to improve its operations or to consider
scaling up the FEAT by adding the necessary hnds should there be a high demand for the
facility. At the time, the Bank would discuss with GOTthe possibility o f moving to a pooled
fund arrangement for the FEAT should there be interest from other DPs. Duringthe mid-term
reviewo fthe project, the possibility o f scaling-upthe FEATwould be examined.

Sub-component 2: Ethics Secretariat -IDA US$0.6 million

A budget o f $600,000 would be set aside for the ES. Support to the ES will be related to
achieving the objectives o f the FEAT and o f the ES action plan. The ES will be strengthened to

                                               - 71 -

enable it to host the FEAT through the recruitment o f key staff and by funding incremental
operational costs. The Secretariat, as host o f the FEAT, will not be one o f the beneficiaries o f
the fund. Therefore, the ES will receive funding to disseminate widely the "rules o f the game"
of the FEAT and to systematically collect and disseminate the lessons learned and good
practices. The ES will also be supported to create more awareness o f the importance o f ethical
behavior within the general population. The ES will receive technical support to set up the
FEAT and strengthen generally its capacity to perform an improved role with respect to ethics
within the public service

Component4: Project Coordination IDA US$0.6 million
                                        -

The leadership and management arrangements o f the A T P provide for (i)    coordination o f ATIP
with other good governance programs through the Inter-Ministerial Technical Working Group
(IMTWG) at the technical level and the IMTC at the policy and strategic levels; (ii)       program
implementation would be mainstreamed in the structures o f each o f the stakeholder agencies;
(iii) forcoordinationandmonitoringandevaluationwouldbeunderthedirectcontrolof
     funds
the ES, and disbursed and accounted for through the IFMS; and (iv) coordination o f the ATIP
components together with monitoring and evaluation would be done by the GGCU. However,
GGCUwould not have any direct implementationrole.

To ensure overall coordination o f the activities related to improving accountability, transparency
and integrity and more particularly monitoring o f the progress inthe fight against corruption and
improvement in good governance, support will be provided to the GGCU. The GGCU has been
established in the President's Office in the Chief Secretary's Office to enhance the overall
coordination o f NACSAP across government.           The mandate and role for this coordination
generally lies with the Chief Secretary as the Head o f the Public Service and Secretary to the
Cabinet.

Under the current NACSAP, support was provided to the GGCU by UNDP, Norway, Finland
and Sweden through the Strengthening Capacities to Combat Corruption in Tanzania (SCCCT)
project. It i s expected that some o f these DPs will continue supporting the GGCU for the
coordination o f the new NACSAP activities. However, at this time this support is not yet clear.
It is important that results in improving good governance be monitored at the highest level in
government. Therefore ATIP will provide support to GGCU to improve its monitoring and
evaluation functions including reporting on the overall results o f NACSAP. Support will also be
provided to review ifnecessary the institutional structure o f GOTto combat corruption with the
objective o f delineating clear mandates and fostering greater collaboration among institutions.
Under the PRBS/PRSC/PRSL policy dialogue, it is noteworthy that there is agreement between
government and DPs that a stronger dialogue should be established around good governance as a
key pillar o f the MKUKUTA. The understanding is that a broad policy dialogue similar to the
one institutedfor SWAPSshould be established for anti-corruption. Support to the GGCUwould
help concretize this agreement by providing the necessary funds to launch the process andput in
place the necessary mechanisms for dialogue and improved coordination within government and
gradually betweenGOTand its domestic constituency.

                                           - 72 -

                             Annex 5: ProgradProject Costs


             TANZANIA: Accountability, Transparency & Integrity Project

                                       Program Costs

ProjectCost By Component                           Local        Foreign         Total
                                                U S $million  U S $million   U S $million
Strengthening legal andjudicial system                  20.5           46.5          67.0
Enhancing public financial accountability               17.4           47.4          64.8
StrengtheningOversightand Watchdog                        0.7           3.8            4.5
Institutions
Project Coordination                                      0.3           0.4            0.7
Total Baseline Cost                                     38.9           98.1         137.0
Physicaflrice Contingencies                               2.4           6.2            8.6
Total Program Costs                                     41.3         104.3          145.6
Total Financing Required                                41.3         104.3          145.6



                                      (of which IDA)

ProjectCost By Component                           Local        Foreign         Total
                                                U S $million  U S $million   U S $million
Strengthening legal andjudicial system                    7.1          16.7           23.8
Enhancingpublic financial accountability                  2.5           6.0            8.5
Strengthening   Oversight    and    Watchdog              0.7           3.8            4.5
Institutions
Project Coordination                                      0.3           0.4            0.7
Total Baseline Cost                                     10.6           26.9           37.5
Physical/Price Contingencies                              0.8            1.7           2.5
Total Project Costs                                     11.4           28.6           40.0
Total Financing Required                                11.4           28.6           40.0

                                               - 73 -

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
               TANZANIA: Accountability, Transparency& IntegrityProject

1. Overview

There are two major considerations with respect to the definition o f the implementation
arrangements for ATP. Firstly, two o f the project's components will support distinct SWAP-
based programs, Le., PFMRP and LSRP. For these two programs, Government and DPs have
already agreed to adopt a pooled fund modality, to which the Bank will subscribe. Thus funds
under components 1 and 2 of the ATIP will be disbursed to the LSRP and PFMRP pooled bank
account for each of the two programs. Secondly, the third and fourth components o f ATIP
(support to OWIs and coordination, M&E) will be implemented under a traditional project
modality. Furthermore, the implementation arrangements for these latter two components require
particular attention because: (i)the third component will be demand-driven; and (ii) the
                                                                                    while
fourth component will have activities that will be implemented by the GGCU in the President's
Office and the ES. Governmenthas decided that the ES rather than GGCU itself should handle
all funds under component 4, includingGGCU's coordination and capacity buildingactivities.

2. Key features ofthe implementationarrangements

Inthe context o f the above, the key features of the implementation arrangements are described
under the following headings:


     0  SWAP pooled fundingmodalities.
     0  Mainstreamedproject implementation.

SWAPpooledfundingmodalities. There will be a designated pooled fund account for each o f
components 1 and 2 o f ATIP. The report-based disbursement modalities and time frame for
transferring funds to the pooled fund accounts i s stipulated inthe PFMRP and LSRP MoUs to be
executedby the Bank andwill be detailed inthe disbursement letter to be issuedby the Bank and
the LSRP and PFMRP operational manuals. The World Bank has reviewed the MoUs and
operation manuals of the LSRP and PFMRP and i s satisfied that these comply with its fiduciary
requirements, upon certain agreedmodifications.

Government and development partners supporting the LSRP and PFMRP are organized under
the Joint Implementation Program Review Committee (JIPRC) and Joint Steering Committee
(JSC), respectively.   These two committees which are government lead are guided by the
Memorandum of Understanding and the operational manuals for the pooled funds. DPs,
including the Bank, will review and endorse consolidated annual work plans and budgets for
each fiscal year detailing the eligible activities and budgets for each LSRP and PFMRP sub-
component as described inthis PAD.

The designated account of the ATIP will cater for components 3 and 4.      This account will be
managed by the ES, which i s a quasi-autonomous constitutional body under the President's
Office.   The specific procedures and controls for the management of this account will be
documented in a financial and procurement management manual which will guide the ES inthe
implementation o fcomponents 3 and4.

                                                         - 74 -


Mainstreamedimplementationof ATIP. There i s no enclave project implementation unit for
any of the ATP activities inthe M D A sresponsible for their implementation. All ATIP activities
are being undertaken within the mainstreamed structures o f the relevant MDAs. Detailed
description o f the arrangements for each o f the components i s provided in separate sections
below. This implies full staffing o f the implementingagencies to enable them to implement the
project efficiently and effectively. The Government has already initiated the appointment o f key
outstanding staff positions inMJCA and the ES, and PO-PSM has confirmed its commitment to
the process.

3. LSRP implementationarrangements

The lead coordinating institution will be the Ministry of Justice and ConstitutionalAffairs
(MJCA). The Deputy Attorney General/Permanent Secretary o f MJCA as the Chief Executive
Officer/Accounting Officer will ensure effective coordination o f the lead agencies and all
implementers o f the LSRP. To facilitate the Ministry in its role as the overall coordinating
agency, the Directorate o f Planning, Policy and Information will be strengthened with capacity
buildingfor program coordination.

The lead implementing agencies assigned for the overall implementation o f the LSRP sub-
components (KRA) are the Law Reform Commission, the Judicia$',                                  the Commission for
HumanRights and Good Governance, the Faculty o f Law, University of Dar es Salaam and the
Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. Other implementing agencies are charged with
the implementation o f specific LSRP activities under the overall coordination o f the lead
implementing agencies (see the table below listing the key implementing agencies).
Nonetheless, all legal andjudicial institutions will be actively involved inthe implementation o f
ATP activities, as well as inthe policy dialogue, reporting, andmonitoring and evaluation.


      Key ResultArea                LeadAgency                          ImplementingAgency
      (LSFW Sub-
      component)
      1. National legal             Law Reform             Law ReformCommission o f Tanzania
          framework                 Commission of          MJCA
                                    Tanzania               NGOs and other voluntary Associations
                                                           Judiciary
                                                           Legal training institutions
                                                           Legal Registries (BRELA, Registry o f
                                                           Titles, Registries, Administrator Generals
                                                           Department)
                                                           Tanganyika Law Society




*'The use o f Judiciary inthis case refers to the Registrar o f the Court o f Appeal, who i s the chief executive and
accounting officer o f all courts inTanzania.

                                              .
                                              - 75 -


      2. Access to           Judiciary
          justice for the
          poor and
          disadvantaged

                                                and Local Government                       I
      3. Improved            Commission for   1IMJCA
          governance and     HumanRights      hllcrli
                                                NGOs and other voluntary Associations
          administration     and Good           Law Reform Commission o f Tanzania
          justice
                                              1 Administrative tribunals                   I
      4. Knowledge and       Law Faculty        Law Faculty Universityo f Dar es Salaam
          skills o f legal   Universityo f
          professionals      Dar es Salaam      Tanganyika Law Society
                                                Institute o f Judicial Administration
                                              I Law Facultv. MzumbeUniversitv              I
                                                Law Faculty, 0 en Universityo f Tanzania
                                                Judiciary
                                                Law Faculty, Tumaini University

                                               1MinistryofScience Technology andHigher
                                                Education                                  I
                                                CLE
      5. Service delivery MJCA                  MJCA
          capacity inthe                        Registrar, Court o f Appeal
          sector                                Legal Registries (BRELA,Registry o f
          institutions                          Titles, Registries, Administrator Generals
                                                Department)
      6. Management,                            All lead agencies and implementing
      coordination,                             agencies
      monitoring and
      evaluation

Implementing agencies will have direct responsibility for implementing the activities arising
under the targeted outcomes and outputs underthe relevant KeyResult Areas. They will develop
annual work plans and budgets for the respective outputs in the LSRP; identify the nature of
technical support for implementing the activities, review progress in achieving desired outputs
and reporting progress on a quarterly basis to the lead agency. The implementing agency will
also liaise with the lead agency to request technical support inimplementing activities under the
program.

The responsibility of the lead agency will be to lead, coordinate and monitor the implementation
o f program activities within its relevant Key Result Area in partnership with the implementing
agencies. The lead and implementing agencies are reflected in the table below for each key
result area (i.e. each LSW sub-component o f ATIP):

                                      - 76 -

(i) A Joint (GOT and DPs) Implementation Program Review Committee
     (JIPRC). The mechanism for overall coordination of LSRP implementation is
     the Joint (GOT and DPs) Implementation Program Review Committee (JIPRC).
     This committee is the main forum for policy and strategy dialogue between GOT
     and DPs. Once the pooled funding for the program i s operational, the JIPRC will
     also approve funding and disbursements based on satisfactory performance and
     approved annual work plans and budgets for each GOTfiscal year. The Members
     o f the JIPRC will be the Deputy Attorney GeneralPennanent Secretary MJCA,
     Permanent Secretary Ministry o f Home Affairs, Registrar o f the Court o f Appeal,
     the LSRP Program Coordinator and DPs.

(ii) GOTSteering Committee. For the LSRP there is also a GOTSteering
     Committee, composed o f chief executives o f all implementing agencies. The
     steering committee will provide policy and strategic leadership to the reform
     program. The steering committee i s chaired by the Chief Justice and the Attorney
     General will bethe deputy chairman.

     The Committee will meet at least once every four months, to deliberate and
     approve on amongst others:


      0   Quarterly work plans and budgets for the program.
      0   Recommendations o f the Technical Coordination Committee with respect to
          program implementation monitoring and evaluation reports.
      0   Policy and strategic issues arising inthe program implementation.
      0   Developments in the country that might require changes in the program
          implementation.     .

(iii) TheTechnicalCoordinationCommittee. Atechnicalcoordinationcommittee
     will be responsible for coordination o fprogram implementation activities, as well
      as ensuring regular monitoring and evaluation o f the activities, outputs and
      outcomes. Members o f this committee will be the chief executive officers of the
      lead agency for each KRA (LSRP sub-component) and two representatives from
      the donors supportingthe LSRP.

      The Committee will meet at least once inevery 3 months, to deliberate on, among
      others pertinent matters including the following:


      0   Quarterly work plans and budgets for the KRAs.
      0   Monthly progress reports on each o f KRA to be presented by the respective
          lead agencies.
      0   Technical papers andreports submittedby lead agencies.
      0  Policy and strategy papers prepared by lead agencies (including Cabinet
          memos and draft bills) for submission to the GOTSteering Committee.

(iv)  Program Coordinator: The Program coordinator will be a GOTemployee and
      will be overall facilitator and manager o f the program on the day to day basis.
      The functions o fthe program coordinator will be:

                                                     - 77 -


                     To assist the lead agencies and implementing agencies in realigning their
                     strategic plans, annual work plans, plan o f operations and MTEFbudgets with
                     the Medium Term Strategy (MTS). This will include providing the necessary
                     technical support where there are capacity constraints.
                     To monitor and report on progress inprogram implementation.
                     To coordinate all aspects o f planning and implementation o f the program. In
                     this regard, the coordinator will closely liaise with the sector agencies
                     responsible for implementing components o f the LSRP, and especially with
                     the chief executives and the link/program officers o fthese agencies.
                     To receive, manage and account for all the program funds basing on
                     periodicalreports from implementing agencies.
                     To facilitate procurement and contracting o f goods/services/works/ equipment
                     for progrdproject implementationactivities to the implementing agencies.
                     To provide technical secretarial and other administrative support to the GOT
                     Steering Committee and Technical Coordination Committee.
                     To publicise the activities and achievements o fthe program.

                     Figure A.6.1: Overview of LSFW institutional arrangements




                               Office of the National               Technical
                                LSRP Coordinator                   Coordination
                                                                    Committee

                                                                       t l
    I        t                 t                              t               t              t           I


        Result Area 1                        Result Area 3                 Result Area 5  Result Area 6

                                                                                         f




It is acknowledged by both Government and DPs that there is a need to improve urgently the
program implementation capacity o f the key institutions responsible for the LSRP. Currently the
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) is providing a Chief Technical Advisor and a
capacity building advisor to MJCA. There is consensus between GOTand DPs that there i s a

                                             - 78 -

need to increase the technical support in the areas o f M&E, IEC, and management information
systems.

Details o f the implementation arrangements for the LSRP are documented in an Operations
Manual and highlighted inthe M O U to be entered into between the Government and the pooled
fundDPs.

4. PFMRPimplementationarrangements

The PFMRP is coordinated by the MoF.             Other institutions involved in the program
implementation include the recently established Public Procurement and Regulatory Agency
(PPRA) and the National Audit Office (NAO).           A Joint (Government and DPs) Steering
Committee i s inplace to provide policy, strategic oversight and facilitate dialogue. The Deputy
Permanent Secretary in the MoF i s designated the Program Manager. There i s also a full-time
Program Coordinator who has been contracted to provide technical advice and support on
program implementation. MoF's heads o f department based on their portfolio are responsible for
keyresult areas of the program. Details of the implementation arrangements for the PFMRPare
documented in an Operations Manual and highlighted in the MOU between Government and
DPs.

A Joint SteeringCommittee(JSC) headedbythe Permanent Secretary, MoF (PSF), comprising
the CAG and with representatives from the MoF and DPs, has been established. The JSC will
maintain strategic oversight of the program and where necessary take requiredactions. The full
Committee will meet bi-annually. However, the JSC may set up working groups for specific
purposes, which will meet on a more frequentbasis.

The CoordinationSecretariatset up underthe DeputyPermanent Secretary (DPS) -Policy and
Resource Mobilization, will support the coordination o f the program. The DPS who i s also the
Program Manager i s supported by a Program Coordinator and Deputy Program Coordinator/
M&ESpecialist.

MoF's Heads o f Departments are responsible for a key strategic areadsub-component.         This
assignment o f component managers was determined on the basis o f each head's portfolio
mandate. Similarly, the C A G has appointed one o f his deputies to manage External Audit
Services.   The MoF will be the lead implementing institution for the PFMRP. It will be
responsible for coordinatingimplementation o f the PFMRPwith the NAO and the PPRA.

The management of the PFMRP will build on existing mechanisms for leadership, coordination
and monitoring of public sector reforms. Specifically, the Permanent Secretary, MoF will on a
quarterly basis, report to the I M T C o f Permanent Secretaries, which has responsibility for
leadership and oversight of GoT's reforms, on PFMRP implementation progress. Inaddition, the
IMWG comprising senior GOT officers and headed by the PS, PO-PSM, will monitor the
PFMRP at its quarterly meetings, and report the same to the I M T C (see FigureA.6.2).

                                                      - 79 -

                       FigureA.6.2: Overviewof institutionalarrangements



                                       Leadership 8 coordination




                     I                            I   Proaress
           F i




                                                                                  _ -




5. Strengtheningof OWIs component implementationarrangements

The third component o f A T P (strengthening OWIs) will be managed by the ES. The ES is one
o f the independent inter-ministerialdepartments under the President's Office that are responsible
for good governance. The Secretariat i s charged with powers to administer the ethical conduct o f
public leaders as defined by the Public Leadership Code o f Ethics Act, No. 13 o f 1995. The
Secretariat's functions are prescribed in the Constitution, Article 132 (1) which provides that:
"There shall be the Ethics Secretariat which shall have powers to inquire into the behavior and
conduct o f any public leader for the purposes o f ensuring that the provisions o f law concerning
the ethics o fpublic leaders are duly complied with".

The ES i s headed by an Ethics Commissioner, who is appointedby the President. There are two
operational departments, one for political leaders and another for public service leaders. The
head o f the political leaders department i s also the head o f administration o f the Secretariat. The
latter will also be directly responsible for overseeing the FEAT implementation. Details o f the
modalities, procedures and criteria to be used in implementation o f this component, and in
particular the administration o f the FEAT by the ES, will be documented in detail in an
operations manual.

The FEAT Steering Committee: The FEAT Steering Committee (FSC) will ensure that
facilities activities are carried out in accordance with the operational and financial management
manuals. The specific responsibilities o f the Steering Committee include:

     0   Approve FEAT'Sannual work program andbudget;
         Approve all applications for funding on a quarterly basis;
         Approve amendments to the Operations and Financial Management Manual; and
         Approve the annual reports and Audit Reports and Financial Statements o f FEAT.

                                                - 80 -


The FSC has seven members drawn from public, private andNGO's sectors. Membershipo fthe
Steering Committee is as detailed below:

 Sn. Affiliation                                                       Status inFSC

       The Chairman o f the ES who i s also its Commissioner,          Chairperson       o f     FEAT
       President's Office.                                             Steering Committee

 2     Head, GGCU, President's Office                                  Member

 3     Director o f Ethics -PO-PSM                                     Member

       A nominee from TANGO representing NGOs and the
       civil Society                                                   Member

                                                                      I
 5     A Nominee from Tanzania Business Council                        Member

 6     Registrar, NGOsRegistration Council                             Member

 7     The Secretary o fthe ES, President's Office                      Secretary


The Steering Committee may also meet on an extraordinary basis or conduct special meetings
whenever an issue that needs immediate attention arises.
To ensure that all activities to be funded are in line with ATP's objectives, the FEAT manual
will have criteria for institutional as well as project/activity eligibility. These are described
below.

InstitutionalEligibility

All OWIs are eligible for fundingunderthe FEAT arrangement. These include OWIs such as the
Parliament and its Committees, PCB, NAO, professional associations as well as NGOs. A
political party or an organization directly affiliated to a political party will be not eligible. Firms
and individuals will also not be eligible institutions.

For not-for-profit organizations such as NGOs to qualify for funding o f its proposed activities
underFEAT it must declare its status and meet the following criteria:


    0  It must be registeredby the Registrar o fNGOs as a non-profit makingorganization for at
       least one year. Any non-profit organization submitting an application must submit proof
       o f its non-profit status in its application at the time o f submission. This may include a
       certified copy o f the organization's certificate o f incorporation or similar document that
       clearly establishes non-profit status or a statement from the appropriate government
        organ certifying that the applicant organization has a non-profit status and that its net
        earnings do not accrue to any private shareholders or individuals. Applications that do
       not includeproofo fnon-profit status will be disqualified;

                                                             - 81 -


    0    It must have a constitution;
    0    It must demonstrate that it has a sound management structure with trustees and at least
         three professional permanent staff;
    0    It must have the capacity to produce financial statements and audited reports for the past
         year;
    0    It must demonstrate ability to provide at least 10% contribution to the project proposal
         cost, either incash or inkind, and
    0    It must be able to show that recurrent costs o f the organization will be met by its own
         resources.

ProjectEligibility

The FEAT will fund activities that seek to achieve the ATIP project development objective and
that address the information gap or seek to improve the ethics environment in the country as
mentioned above. Specific eligible and ineligible activities are reflected intable A 6.1 below.

Table A.6.1: Eligiblehneligibleactivitiesunderth FEAT sub-component
Eligible interventions                                              Ineligible interventions

[nterventionsthat are eligible for FEAT financing should support FEAT is not to be used for investments where the
Zapacity building in the respective organizations to enhance contributions to capacity improvements are not readily
sversight capabilities or ethical environment in the public sector,  demonstrable. These include:
which mayinclude:

    Technical support at all stages of the development of the                Investmentincommercialventures.

    participatingorganization's strategic plans, annualwork plans,
    monitoringandimplementationplans.                                        The purchaseof motor vehicles.

     Specific training activitieswithin Tanzania or Africa region(or         Civil works.
     elsewherewith detailedjustification) relatedto improving the
     quality of information produced,disseminatedand used.                   Generaladministrativeexpenditures.
     Activities with funding committed from other sources,
     demonstrating how FEAT will contribute to achieving the                 Salaries   or    salaries   enhancement    and
     objectives of the activities.                                           remunerative allowances.

     FEAT will       only    support incremental    results-oriented
     investments.This will include, for instance, resources required         Activities with full funding committed from

     to re-engineer processes; to put in place systems for                   other sources.

     monitoring and evaluation; and/or to foster organizational
     learninginOWIs.                                                         Re-tooling that is more than 15 per cent of the
                                                                             budget requested.
     Re-tooling of participating organizations to improve both
     working facilities and environmentinthe context of improving            Activities related to human rights, police:
     oversight andwatchdog capabilitiesand activities.                       prosecutionor prisonsor political advocacy.

     Support to the rationalizationof OWIs' roles and functions.             Activities with a financing gap.
     Soft assets including computers and software contributing
     directlyto the O W objectives.                                          Repeater activities whose predecessor did no)
                                                                             achieve the desired objectives or did not meei
     Support work aimed at promoting governance with respect to              the fiduciary requirements ofthe FEAT.
     the activities of the ATIP including the monitoring and
     evaluation of service delivery by beneficiaries, civil society
     groups andthe privatesector.

     Activities above for which the organization does not have
                                         -
     access to another primary source of funds.

                                                - 82 -

The minimumapplication for funding is expected to be US$ 10,000 while the maximum will be
US$ 500,000 per applicant. For grants above US$ 100,000, the FEAT management will provide
IDA with all relevant details of the request for no-objection. These funds will be disbursedinat
least two tranches. Disbursement will be based on satisfactory submission o f financial and
physicalprogress reports.

There will be a legally binding grant agreement signed by the ES and each recipient OW1
stipulating the activities to be carried out by the recipient and the output and outcome indicators
of achievement of the grant's objectives, the conditions o f the grant, including sound
procurement and financial management and reporting, and the rights o f the Secretariat and IDA
inrelation to supervising and auditingthe use of the funds provided. The agreement will also
give the Secretariat the right to suspend or cancel disbursementswhere the funds are not usedfor
the purposes intended.

6. Projectcoordinationimplementationarrangements

The fourth component o f the ATP will be primarily the responsibility o f the GGCU. The
GGCU has been established inthe Chief Secretary's Office o f the President's Office to enhance
the overall coordination of NACSAP across government.              The mandate and role for this
coordination generally lies with the Chief Secretary as the Head of the Public Service and
Secretary to the Cabinet.

The interventions and activities under the fourth component generally reflect strengthening and
facilitating the GGCU to better perfonn its core roles and functions, which are: (i)overall
coordination o f good governance programs, especially the NACSAP; and (ii) level M&E,
                                                                                  high
and reporting to the President on progress of implementation of the anti-corruption measures.
Funds for use under this component will also be managed by the ES.

Under the current NACSAP, support was provided by UNDP, Norway, Finland and Sweden
through the Strengthening Capacities to Combat Corruption in Tanzania (SCCCT) project that
came to an end in 2004. It i s expected that some o f these DPs will continue supporting the
GGCU for the coordination o f the new NACSAP activities. However, at this time this support
has not been specified in detail. It i s important that results in improving good governance be
monitored at the highest level ingovernment.

Inthis context, the GGCU will have overall responsibility for coordinating and for overseeing
the monitoring and evaluation o f the ATIP. This i s inline with GGCU's assigned core roles and
functions, which are: (i)overall coordination o f good governance programs, especially the
NACSAP; and (ii)    highlevelM&E, andreportingto the Presidentonprogress o f implementation
of the anti-corruption measures.

Monitoring and evaluation under the project will be streamlined within the GOT'Sown M&E
framework for the MKUKUTA. The M&E arrangements under the governance pillar o f
MKUKUTA arebased largely on the monitoring and evaluation framework for NACSAP, which
incorporates many of the target outcomes o f the LSRP and the PFMRP. These are centralized
under the GGCU, which provides leadership and coordination for NACSAP across GOT.
GGCU's M&E system will capture at a high level both outputs and outcomes indicators for the
ATP.

                                               - 83 -


The Bank's supervision o f the ATIP will be based on the respective program arrangements for
components 1 and 2 in line with the pooled funding mechanisms. These relate to the joint
government - DP committees that will review the progress o f the LSRP and PFMRP every six
months. For component 3 and 4, the Bank will carry out normal supervision missions every six
months during which it will review and discuss with the ES and the GGCU implementation
progress. Inreviewing implementation progress under component 4, the Bank will review and
discuss with the GGCU progress on all the four components o f the ATIP based on monitoring
and evaluationreports that are inline with the government system.

7. Coordinationwith other cross-cuttingreformprograms

The overall coordinating mechanism for the core cross-cutting reforms (public service, local
government, public finance, legal/judicial and sector development) i s the responsibility o f the
existing committee o f all Permanent Secretaries - the Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee
(IMTC) chaired by the Chief Secretary/Head o f Public Service. The Inter-Ministerial Working
Group (IMWG) comprises senior government officers and chaired by the PS PO-PSM meets
quarterly to review progress o f all core reform programs and reports to the IMTC.

Further, a Public Sector Management Working Group (PSMWG) has responsibility for
coordinating resources allocation and expenditure for the core governance reforms, particularly:
PFMRP; PSRP; and LGRP within the GOT planning and budget processes. It comprises
representatives from MoF, PO-PSM, President's Office Regional Administration and Local
Government, DPs and civil society.

                                              - 84 -

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
               TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& IntegrityProject

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

ATIP activities will be implementedby the following ministries and a secretariat namely: MJCA,
MoF, and the ES. ATIP will support the following main components: (i)         Strengthening legal
and judicial system through Legal Sector Reform Program (LSRP) in collaboration with other
development partners through a SWAp pooled funds arrangement; (ii)Enhancing public
financial accountability through Public Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP); and
(iii)Strengthening of OWIs through the FEAT grant mechanism to be coordinated by the ES.
MJCA and M o F are the overall coordinators o f their respective programs. The LSRP's objective
is to improve access to judicial and legal services for all Tanzanians through improving the
capacity o f legal sector institutions. The PFMRP's main goal i s to improve the management o f
public financial resources for economic growth, public service delivery and poverty reduction.
The main objective of the FEAT i s to improve domestic accountability, particularly with respect
to the cross-cutting reforms.

ATP's implementation arrangements will be mainstreamed in the existing government
structures, which include financial arrangement interms o f accounting, planning and budgeting,
reporting and auditing. The accounting officers o f the above respective ministers and secretariat
will assume overall responsibility for accounting o fthe project funds. The respective Directorate
o f Finance within these ministries will ensure that the disbursements and financial management
o f the project components mentioned above are carried out efficiently and in accordance with
acceptable international accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standard
Board or Public Sector Accounting Standards, Government Public Finance Act 2001, and signed
MoUs in case o f PFMRP and LSRP. The accounting system is based on an integrated
government computerized accounting system called Epicor.

Duringthe appraisal, the Bank carried a financial management assessment for the three above
institutions. The purpose o f the financial management assessment was to determine whether the
financial management systems and arrangements o f the MoF, Ethic Secretariat, and M J C A are
capable o f producing timely, understandable, relevant, and reliable financial information that
would allow the project management and the World Bank monitor compliance with agreed
procedures, and appraise progress towards its objectives. Also require the project implementing
entities to undertake appropriate measures to mitigate risks poses by weaknesses that are
identified (ifany).

Major risks that may face the project include:

(i)      Fundsmay not be used in an efficient and economical way and exclusively for purposes
         intended.

                                                - 85 -

Mitigating measures:


    0    The program will be subject to joint regular implementation review and annual external
         financial and procurement audit review aimed at closely monitoring both financial and
         physicalperfonnance o f the program.
    0    ATP will provide support to the oversight and watchdog institutions for good
         governance inorder to strengthenthe public accountability at all level.
    0    Linkage betweenphysical output and financial outcomes will be strengthened including
         M&Efunctions intheministry.

(ii)     Weak internal audit capacity within the ministryto oversee the internal controls systems.

Mitigating measures:

Each ministry has established an internal audit unit and audit committee. Audit committee major
role i s to review the internal and external audit reports and follow up on implementation of the
recommendations arising from these reports. An internal audit manual has been developed and
training conductedto internal auditors, accountants, and Accounting Officers. Although these are
now inplace, its effectiveness i s hindered due to inadequate number and skilled internal auditors.

(iii)    Lack o f qualified internal auditors and accounting staff inthe ministries

Mitigating measure:

Recruitment i s underway this FY by the Accountant General office for additional qualified
internal auditors and accountants. In addition, significant efforts have been made over the last
four years by the Accountant General to improve the capacity o f technical accounting and
internal auditing staff. This has been through a range o f in service training courses for all levels
o f staff as well as support for academic and professional qualifications. However the ability o f
the government to recruit and retain suitably experienced personnel remains a challenge due to
low pay.

The overall conclusion o f the financial management assessment is that the project's financial
management arrangements satisfy the World Bank's minimumrequirements under OPh3P10.02.
However, some improvements remain to be effected for the system in order to establish an
acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial management risks. The project financial
management risk i s assessed as being modest. The various measureshmprovements should be
implementedbythe due dates as indicated inthe table below.

                                                  - 86 -




                                                              before
                                                              disbursements

   2     Recruit additional qualified internal auditor and    Completed
         accountants (MJCA and ES)                            before
                                                              disbursements
                                                              to specific
                                                              components
   3     Carry out a staff development andtraining            Completed
         program to cover financial management and            duringthe
         accounting (ES)                                      project
                                                              imdementation
~~




Finuncial Covenants

      ...
  Standard financial covenants include the submission to IDA of:

         Annual audited financial statements for the three components (FEAT, PFMRP and
         LSGP) within six months after the year-end.
         Agreed interim un-audited Financial Reports (FRs) within 45 days after each calendar
         quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
         Other relatedinformation as requiredby IDA.

Disbursement Method

 Disbursementsfrom the IDA Credit will be on Report-Based disbursement method.

 Disbursementsto meet eligible expenditures under FEAT program will be based on submission
  o f acceptable quarterly withdrawal application requests to IDA based on quarterly interim un-
  audited Financial Reports (FRs) and six month cash requirements. The FRs will be submittedto
  IDAwithin 45 days after the end o f each quarter. The FRs reporting formats were agreed during
  the project negotiations.    In compliance with FMR guidelines, we will expect the Ethic
  Secretariat to, (a) sustain satisfactory financial management rating during program supervision;
  (b) submit FRs consistent with the agreed form and content within 45 days o f the end of each
  reportingperiod, and (c) submit aProgramAudit Reportbythe due date.

  Disbursements to meet eligible expenditures under PFMRP and LSRP SWAP modalities will
  follow the agreed disbursement modalities as stipulated inthe signed MoU. Funds from the IDA
  Credit will be disbursedto the existing LSRP and PFMRPbasket holding accounts.

                                               - 87 -

External Audit

The external audit will be carried out annually by the N A O or such other person registered as an
auditor under the Auditors and Accountants Act, 1972 and approved by the CAG. The auditor
will be required to express an opinion on the audited project financial statements incompliance
with International Standards onAuditing.


FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT


SCOPE OF WORK

The objective o f the assignment was to conduct an assessment o f the current financial
management system at two line ministries and a secretariat responsible for implementation o f
ATP, and record the results o f such an assessment, in accordance with the requirements o f
paragraph 5 o f the World Bank guidelines to staff'. These arrangements include systems for
planning and budgeting, accounting and internal controls, reporting and auditing, as well as
appropriately qualified accounting staff to operate the project financial systems. The entity's
arrangements are acceptable ifthey are considered capable o f recording correctly all transactions
and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entity's assets, and are subject to auditing arrangement acceptable to the Bank.

During the assessment, the Bank examined the systems o f accounting, reporting, auditing,
planning & budgeting, and internal controls o f the MoF, MJCA, and Ethic secretariat.           In
addition, the existing financial management arrangement, disbursement modalities, and MoUs
for PFMRP and LSRP were reviewedand found satisfactory.

PFMRP

PFMRP has been under implementation since July 2004. Three Development Partners (DPs)
namely Norway, Denmark and EU have signed the M o U and provided funds to the basket.
PFMRP support 10 components that are implemented under the MoF and National Audit Office
(NAO).    The components are as follows: (i)      Policy analysis and development; (ii)   External
resources management; (iii)    Budget management (iv) Treasury management and accounting (v)
Procurement (vi) Information technology services (vii) Investment management (viii)
Administrative support services; (viii) External audit services; and (x) Program leadership,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation. The PFMRP long-term strategy clearly articulates the
strategies to realize specific intermediate outcomes inthe medium-term together with associated
indicators and expected outputs. Since its inception, the Bank FMteam has been fully involved
inthe preparationand follow-up on implementationof PFMRP. The team is also member ofthe
DPs Public Financial Management working group.




21  Refer to Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-financed Projects-
Guidelinesto Staffissuedby the Financial Management Sector Board, June 30,2001.

                                                  - 88 -

LSRP

Strengthening legal andjudicial system through LSRP has been developed and the program was
launched on March 22, 2005. The LSRP's strategic imperatives, medium-term priorities and
proposed interventions for reforming the Sector are articulated in a three-year Medium Term
Strategy.

COUNTRY        ISSUES

RISK   ANALYSIS AND CONDITIONS

COUNTRY RISKS

The Government o f Tanzania has clearly made great steps in improving financial management
and through implementation o f Public Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP). The
March 2005 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review (PEFAR) concludes that,
generally Tanzania now has a sound system o f formal rules for financial management and
extensive training has taken place on the application o f the financial rules and regulations. Most
o f the recommendations contained in the 2001 Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) report have been implemented or are already included in the Public Financial
Management Reform Programme (PFMRP) under implementation. In terms o f appropriate
legislation and regulatory frameworks, significant progress has been made to ensure that the risk
associated with lack of clear rules and regulations has been reduced. Also more useful
information i s now provided in the annual accounts. As a result the general level o f fiduciary
risk has been reduced from high to medium. Although much has been accomplished, risks
remain in terms of (i)   effective controls, compliance and sanctioning, including enforcement o f
procurement and payroll rules and procedures; (ii)          timeliness o f audited financial information
and effectiveness o f public reporting o f corruption; (iii)       predictability o f internal and external
resources; (iv) lack o f adequate qualified internal auditors, external auditors, and accountants; (v)
effective independent oversight; and (vi) timeliness and effectiveness o f legislative and public
scrutiny. Tanzania does not have the kind o f legal framework that would facilitate and help to
make public reporting of corruption more effective, i.e. there i s no freedom o f information,
whistleblower protection; (vii) lack o fpublic access to government financial information.

PROJECTRISKS

The table below identifies the key risks that management may face in achieving program
objectives andprovides a basis for determining how management should address these risks.


Topic                Risk        Incorporated Risk Mitigating                           Conditions of
                     Rating      Measures                                               Board or
                                                                                        Effectiveness
InherentRisk
Country:

Funds may not be         M              The respective ministries are strengthening the
used in an efficient                    internal audit and audit committee's functions
and economical way                      through the PFMRPprogram.
and exclusively for

                                                  - 8 9 -

thepurposesintended.                   Linkagesbetweenphysicaloutput andfinancial
                                       outcomes will be strengthenedincludingM&E
                                       functions within the ministries.
                                       ATIP will providesupportto the oversight and
                                       watchdoginstitutionsfor good governance.
                                       ATIP will be subject to procurementaudit to be
                                       conductedby an independentannually.
ImplementingEntity     M     Clear implementationarrangements are inplace andthese
                             are stipulatedin the programs operational manuals
Overall Inherent Risk  M
Funds Flow:
Delaysinfunds flow     M    Disbursementwill be based on reportbasedmethod, on six
                            monthscash forecast andpreviousquarter funds accounted
                             for, andapprovedwork-plans.

                             Designatedaccount andholding account will be opened
                            before credit effectiveness
Staffing:
Lack of skilled        M     Recruitmentsare underwaythis FY by the Accountant
internaland external         Generaloffice for additionalqualified internal auditors and
auditors and                accountants.More training on financialmanagement and
accountants                  IT are plannedin future throughthe PFMRP support.

Accounting Policies
and                    N
Procedures:
Internal Audit :
Weak internalaudit       S  Respectiveministriesare strengtheningthe internalaudit
function                     and audit committee's functions.
                             There will be strongsupervisionandquality assurance in
                             the project.
                             There will be a better follow-up of internal & external
                             audit reportsby the audit committees.
External Audit :
NAO lack modem         M    NAO is beingstrengthen to focus more on value for
audittechniques             moneyaudit throughthe PFMRP


Financial Reporting
and
Monitvring:
Delayin submission     N     The existinggovernmentcomputerizedsystemEpicorwill
of quarterlyFRs,             be usedto producethe financialreports
annual financial
statements
Planning &             N     Will follow MTEF framework of the government
budgeting:

Information Systems    N     The projectaccountswill be integratedinto government
                             computerized accountingsystemcalled Epicor.

Overall ControlRisk    M

OverallRisk
Assessment             M


Riskrating: H(High Risk), S(Substantia1Risk), M(Modest Risk) N(NegIigib1e                 OYLow Risk)

                                             - 90 -




MAINSTRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES

  .
The program financial management i s strengthened by the following salient features:

      Various measures are beingtaken by the government to address the issue o f low technical
      capacity amongst key financial groups. For example, significant efforts have been made
      over the last four years by the Accountant General office to improve the capacity o f
      technical accounting and internal auditing staff as well as Accounting Officers and Audit
      Committee. Same i s beingdone at NAO and Local Authorities. Inaddition recruitment i s
   .  underway to recruit additional 700 qualified accounting staff, 200 out o f the 700 will be
      internal auditors.
      The effectiveness and efficiency o f the external audit function i s been strengthened in
      order to have a more responsive and proactive NAO. Since 2001, the capacity o f the
      NAO has been somewhat strengthened, its authority and scope have expanded, and its
      functioning has improved to some extent. More efforts are underway to ensure N A O
      apply modern audit techniques.
      Generally Tanzania now has a sound system o f formal rules for financial management
      and extensive training has taken place on the application o f the financial rules and
      regulations. Most o f the recommendations contained in the 2001 Country Financial
   .. Accountability Assessment (CFAA) report have been implemented or are already
      included inthe PFMW.
      Inbuilt controls in the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) also provide a
      greater degree o f assurance about the accuracy o f transactions.
      The accounting system is based on integrated government computerized systems which
      comply with international accounting standards andreporting standards (IFRS).

   .
The program financial management i s weakened bythe following salient features:
   ...Weak internal audit capacity within the ministryto oversee the internal controls systems.
      Lack o f adequate qualified internal auditors, external auditors, and accountants.
      Poor levels of compliance on financial regulations and rules by the Accounting Officers.
      GOTinaction to follow up and enforce financial regulations and rules.
      Lack o f public access to government financial information to hold the government
      accountable.
IMPLEMENTING    ENTITY

MJCA, MoF, and Ethic Secretariat shall have the overall responsibility for day-to-day
implementation and management o f funds interms of:

       (a)    procurement, including purchases o f goods, works, and consulting services,

       (b)    project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;

       (c)    contractual relationshipswith IDA and other co-financiers; and

       (d)    financial management and record keeping, accounts and disbursements.

                                              - 9 1 -

The Permanent Secretaries o f the above institutions and the Commissioner (ES) will be the
"Accounting Officer" for this project assuming overall responsibility for accounting for the
project funds. A T P will be fully integrated into the government existing accounting and
financial management system under the Directorates o f Finance. They will ensure that the
disbursements and financial management o f the project components mentioned above are carried
out efficiently, and inaccordance with acceptable international accounting standards.


FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

The objectives o f the program financial management system are to:


    0   ensure that funds are used only for their intendedpurposes inan efficient and economical
        way;
    0   ensure that funds are properly managed and flow smoothly, adequately, regularly and
        predictably inorder to meet the objectives o f the program;
    0   enable the preparationo f accurate and timely financial reports;
    0   enable program management to monitor the efficient implementation o f the program; and
    0   safeguard the program assets and resources.

Furthermore, the following are necessary features o f a strong financial management system:


    0   the program implementing institutions should have an adequate number and mix o f
        skilled and experienced staff;
    0   the internal control system should ensure the conduct o f an orderly and efficient payment
        andprocurement process, andproper recordingand safeguarding o f assets andresources;
    0   the accounting system should support the project's requests for funding and meet its
        reporting obligations to fund providers including Government o f Tanzania, IDA, other
        donors, and local communities;
    0   the system should be capable o f providing financial data to measure performance when
        linkedto the output o fthe program; and
    0   an independent, qualified auditor should be appointed to review the project's financial
        statements andinternal controls.
ACCOUNTING     AND REPORTING

Financial/Accounting Policies & Procedures

The government accounting system is based on integrated government computerized systems
which comply with IFRS. The project financial management arrangements shall observe the
requirements stipulated in GOT'Slaws and regulations.            Specifically, in accordance with
Regulation 53 Sub-section (1) o f the Public Finance Regulations o f 2001 and the accounts will
be maintained on a cash basis. In addition all project transactions will be processed on the
integrated financial management system called Epicor and in accordance with Regulation 25
Sub-section (1) of the Public Finance Act. The annual accounts will be prepared on a historical
basis and submittedto the NAO within a period o f six months after the end o f the financial year.
Project financial statements are requiredto beprepared inaccordance with acceptable accounting

                                                        - 92 -

standards acceptable to the Bank issued by the International Accounting Standard Board or
Public Sector Accounting Standards.


TheProgram Operational and Financial Manual

A comprehensive operations and financial manuals have been developed to support
implementation of the PFMRP and LSRP strategies using basket modalities and FEAT. These
manuals provide guidance to personnel charged with financial management on how to ensure
effective resource management, recording and accounting. This manual draws on existing GOT
legislation and rules to specify common financial management arrangements for the basket
arrangements. It also builds on good practices and the lessons learned from the joint pooling
arrangements and other implementation procedures adopted for Sector Wide Approaches
operating in other sectors. The manuals were reviewed and found satisfactory for program
implementation except for the FEATmanual, which has yet to be finalized andreviewed.

The above policies andprocedures were reviewedand found acceptable to account & report on
program funds.

REPORTINGAND MONITOFUNG

Project quarterly and annual financial reports including quarterly interim un-audited FRs will be
prepared by the implementing agency. The financial reports will be designedto provide quality
and timely information to project management and various stakeholders on program
performance.

At end o f each quarter, the following reports should be preparedand submitted to DPs including
IDA no later than 45 days after the end o f each calendar quarter. The contents o f these reports
should at the minimumconsist o fthe following:


     0   Financial reports consisting o f sources o f funds, uses o f funds by project
         activity/component, and statement o f actual and budget expenditures;
     0   Physical progress or output monitoringreports; and
     0   Procurement report.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The project financial statement shall be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice These Financial Statements 22willcomprise of:

     a. A Balance Sheet reflecting the assets, liabilities and funding o f the project based on the
         cashbases.



22 I t should be noted that the project financial statements should be all inclusive and cover all sources and uses o f
funds and not only those provided through IDA funding. It thus reflects all project activities, financing, and
expenditures, including funds from other donorsiparties and contributions inkind such as labor and accommodation,
irrespective o f whether the project implementing agency controls the funds for a particular aspect of the project.
However, the IDA components would have to be identified separately.

                                                 - 93 -

    b. A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds / Cash Receipts and Payments, which
        recognizes all cash, receipts, cash payments and cash balances controlled by the entity
        for this project; and separately identifies payments by thirdparties on behalf o f the entity.
    c. The Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes should
        be presented in a systematic manner with items on the Balance Sheet and Statement o f
        Cash Receipts and Payments being cross-referenced to any related information in the
        notes. Examples o fthis information include:
    d. A Management Assertion that program funds havebeenexpended inaccordance with the
        intendedpurposes as specified inthe relevantWorld Bank legal agreement.
ANNUALPLANNINGAND BUDGETING:

The overall project budget and a disbursement schedule will be drawn up and included in the
Project Appraisal Document. It i s from this disbursement schedule (as may be subsequently
revised) that IDA funds will be drawn from. The annual Work Plans and Budgets (WPB)will be
preparedbased o n the policy guidelines issued by Ministry o f Finance on the fiscal policy o f the
government under MTEF framework. Each ministry should ensure that DPs' contributions are
fully reflected intheir ministries budget and MoF's MTEFand annual budget. WPB for PFMRP
and LSRP must be approved by the Joint Steering Committee as stipulated in the operational
manual and MoUs.

AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS:

Internal Controland InternalAuditing

Each ministry has established an internal audit unit and audit committee.             Major weakness
observed i s the weak internal audit capacity in terms o f adequate number o f staff with modem
skills to be able efficiently and effectively carryout internal audit functions o f the ministry.

The Internal Auditors will have to develop an audit strategy and plan for the project based on the
risk assessment. It is important to note that the internal auditor's work will have to be monitored
during the implementation and reviewed to ensure that the internal control systems are being
followed and that the issues raised inthe internal auditor's report are addressed by ministry. The
effectiveness o f internal audit will be complemented by the institution o f periodic audit issues
follow-up by the Audit Committee o f the ministries. The Committee will meet quarterly, review
and approve the Internal Auditor's plans and reports. It will also advise Accounting Officer on
any actions that needto be taken.

The ministries internal control system indicated satisfactory levels o f segregation o f duties and
controls.


EXTERNAL AUDIT

The external audit will be carried out annually by the National Audit Office (NAO). The auditor
will be requiredto express an opinion on the audited project financial statements in compliance
with International Standards on Auditing (IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements) and submit the
audit report within six months o f the end o f the financial year. Inaddition, detailed management
letters containing the auditor's assessment o f the internal controls, accounting system and

                                             - 94 -

compliance with financial covenants in the IDA Credit Agreement. In addition, program
activities will subject to procurement audit o f the previous year to be conducted by an
independent firm by 31 December o f each year. ATP implementing agencies responsible for
the three components will be requiredto submit to IDA the audit reports within six months after
the end o fthe financial year.

Fundsflow arrangements:

BankAccounts

The following bank accounts will bemaintained by MoF for the purposes o f implementing the
program:


    0   Basket Fund Holding Account: The Accountant General, MOF will maintain basket fund
        holding accounts at the BOT denominated in U S dollars for the LSRP and PFMRP.
        Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be deposited inthese accounts. Fundswill then
        be transferred from these accounts to the respective MJCA and MOF votes on approval
        by the JIPRC and JSC respectively.

The following bank accounts will be maintained by ES for the purposes o f implementing FEAT
component:


    0   IDA dollar Designated Account:      Denominated in U S Dollars and to be held in a
        commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank.


    0   Localproject account: Denominated Local currency and to be held ina commercial bank
        acceptable to the World Bank.

                                              - 95 -

The categories o f expenditurethat will be financed by the credit and the respective amounts are
specified inthe table below:

             Category               Amount of the Financing      Percentageof Expenditures to
                                  Allocated(expressedinUS$)               be Financed

  (1) Works, goods, consultants'            1,400,000           100%
  services includingaudits,
  training and operating costs
  under Components3.2 and4 of
  the Project

  (2) LSRP Subprograms                     23,500,000           Such percentageof eligible
                                                                expendituresas the Association
                                                                shall determine for each fiscal
                                                                year

  (3) PFMRP Subprograms                     9,500,000           Suchpercentageof eligible
                                                                expendituresas the Association
                                                                shall determine for each fiscal
                                                                year

  (4) FEATGrants                            4,000,000           100%of amounts disbursed

  (5) Refundof Project                      1,600,000           Amount payable pursuantto
  PreparationAdvance                                            Section2.07 of the General
                                                                Conditions

  TOTAL AMOUNT                             40,000,000

                                 I                            I


The above bank accounts shall be opened bycredit effectiveness date.

Flow of Funds

(a) PFMRP and LSRP components through a basket holding account

        IDA will make an advance disbursement from the proceeds o f the Credit based on the
        approved cash flow forecast and AWP by depositing into a Borrower-operated Basket
        HoldingAccounts.
        Quarterly disbursements (LSRP) and semi-annual (PFMRP) from the two basket holding
        accounts maintained by the Accountant General at the BOTwill be based on availability
        o f resources, the annual or quarterly action plans and cost estimates and approved
        quarterlyhemiannual progress and expenditure reports.
        Detailed annual plans for activities, procurement and associated progress and financial
        reports and budgetswill be compiled inthe structured formats contained inthe LSRP and
        PFMRP FinancialManagement and ProcurementManual.
        Deposits will be made within the GOT'Sfinancial year, and where possible, front-loaded
        within the first quarter. On making a deposit, development partners pledge to comply

                                               - 96 -

        with the 2001 Treasury Circular "Channeling Project Funds through the Exchequer
        System".

(b)FEAT component through theES:

    0   IDA will make an initial advance disbursement from the proceeds o f the credit by
        depositing into ES (ATIP) dollar Designated Account.
    0   Funds from the dollar Designated Account will be transferred into project local bank
        account to meet the local expenditures.
    0   Ethic Secretariat will prepare a six monthly cash flow forecast based on the approved
        work plan and submit a quarterly Withdrawal Application under the FMR method o f
        disbursementguidelines for borrowers to IDAwithin 45 days after the end o fthe quarter.

IDAwill be expected to fund 100%o fprogram costs inaccordance withthe recently approved
Country Financing Parameters for Tanzania.

Staffirtg:

The two Ministries and the Secretariat have an accounting unit that is headed by a Chief
Accountant who will be responsible for maintaining the books o f accounts and records o f ATIP
funds. With exception of the MoF, the other institutions have less qualified accountants and
internal auditors. Inthis regard, the additional internal auditors and accountants will be needed in
order to strengthen the above institutions to ensure that funds are timely recorded and accounted
for.

All the accounting staff at Ethic Secretariat shall needtraining on the more recent World Bank
Financial Management and Disbursement Guidelines. This can be arranged in consultation with
the Senior Financial Management Specialist at the World Bank Country Office during the
implementation period o fthe program.

Inorder to ensure that the program is effectively implemented,MoF will ensure that appropriate
staffing arrangements are maintained throughout the life o fthe program.


Informationsystems

The accounting unit o f the agencies i s using the Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMS) which i s a fully integrated computerisedbased accounting and reporting system that uses
Epicor software. The staffs in finance units have undergone training in the use o f IFMS. More
training i s plannedinthe future on the upgrade o fthe software.

To ensure that the IFMS is used to capture the accounting records o f ATIP, demonstrating that
this canbe done will be a condition o f credit effectiveness.

                                             - 97 -



Procurementarrangements

Procurement o f the program will b e under the management of the PMU established in each
ministry. There are n o specific Procurement arrangements that specifically impacts o n the FM
arrangements.

Supervision Plan:

Joint review. The program is subject to joint annual review by both the GOTand DPs. In
addition, there will b e three external reviews on PFMRP that will b e carried out by an
independent consultant. This will b e done duringthe 5 year life of the program. The first review
has been undertaken inMarch 2006.

                                                - 98 -



                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
               TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& IntegrityProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the
Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described in
general below.     For each contract to be financed by the Credit, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project would include: Rehabilitation o f
court buildings and extending ES offices. The procurement will be done using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms for all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) contracts. Since the Government has prepared Standard Bidding
Documents for procurement o f works which are acceptable to the Bank, the Government may
use these documents for procurement o fworks under National Competitive Bidding(NCB).

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: Office
equipment/furniture and vehicles. The procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD and
Standard Bid Evaluation Forms for all ICB. The National SBDs have been accepted by the Bank
and may be used for procurement o f goods underNCB.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Non-consulting services to be procured under the
project include: workshops, training, production and dissemination o f information through radio,
printandtelevision.

Selectionof Consultants: Consulting services to be financed by the project include: Design and
supervision o f rehabilitation o f court buildings, Procurement Specialists at ES and Ministry of
Justice and Constitutional Affairs. Other consultancy services are impact assessment, training
needs assessment, etc. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than U S $
200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

OperatingCosts: Operating costs for this project will consist o f office supplies, communication
charges, utility charges, operation and maintenance costs for vehicles and office equipment.
These will be financed by the project and procured using the Borrower's administrative
procedures.

                                                - 99 -

B. Assessment of the agencies' capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by three entities: (i)Ministry o f Finance (MoF); (ii)
Ethics secretariat (ES); and (iii)Ministry o f Justice and Constitutional Affairs (MJCA).
Procurement in the two Ministries and the Secretariat will continue to be carried out by their
respective PMUs, which have been established according to the new Public Procurement Act
(PPA) no. 21 o f 2004. All the three entities have Tender Boards inplace as per requirements o f
the PPA. The PMUat MoF consists 5 members while at MJCA it is composed o f 3 members and
all the staff are qualified and experienced with procurement o f goods. The staff - supplies
officers and stock verifiers lack experience o fprocurement o fworks and selection o f consultants.

The ES has not yet established a PMU, but has a supplies unit with only one person - the
Supplies Officer. Besides carrying out procurement o f items for its own purposes, the Secretariat
will also issue grants to Oversight and Watchdog Institutions (OWIs). At this time, it is not easy
to know the type of subprojects which will be requested by the OWIs as these subprojects will be
demand driven. Procurement o f items included in the subprojects will be carried out in
accordance with Operations Manual for operating the Facility for Ethics Accountability and
Transparency (FEAT). The Secretariat will assess the capacity o f each OW1accessing the grant
to ascertain its capacity and if possible to train them before starting procuring. The Secretariat
will also conduct annual post reviews for selected post review contracts and share the report with
DPs.

An assessment o f the capacity o f the implementingagencies to carry out procurement actions for
the project has been completedby Donald MneneyinFebruary 2006. The assessment reviewed
the organizational structures for implementing the project and the interaction between the
project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's/ Secretariat relevant central unit
for administration and finance.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been
identified. The assessment has revealed that (i)   the procurement staff have little experience in
carrying out procurement goods and works under ICB procedures and selecting o f consultants;
(ii) procurement filing and record keeping systems are inadequate; (iii) procurement staff
                                                                            the
lack skills to prepare procurement plans; (iv) the procurement staff at MJCA who are expected to
deal with the proposed civil works have no experience with construction and supervision
contracts; and (v) inadequate staffing at the ES. The corrective measures which have been
proposed are (i) procurement staff and tender board members to attend workshops and training in
procurement o f goods, works; and selection o f consultants; (ii)procurement staff to attend data
management training and establish acceptable procurement filing and record keeping; (iii)       the
project to hire short term procurement specialists to work and build capacity at the ES and at
MJCA for 6 months, with a possibility o f extension ifnecessary; (iv) the ES to establish a PMU;
and (v) the Government to make available at least one additional procurement officer to enhance
the capacity o fPMU.

                                               - 100-

The overall project risk for procurement i s high. To mitigate the risk, the following action planis
proposed.

           Action                         Duedate                     Responsibility
Train staff in(i)               Duringimplementationo f        Recipient
procurement o f goods,          theproject.
works, (ii) selection of
consultants, (iii)preparation
o fprocurement plans, and
(iv) data management.
Establishacceptable             Within six months o f          Recipient
procurement filing and          project implementation.
record keeping.
The project to hire short       Before disbursement.           Recipient
term procurement
specialists to work and
build capacity at the ES and
at the MJCA for 6 months.
The ESto establish a PMU.
Government to make
available at least one
additional procurement
officer.

The Parliament passed a new Procurement Act in November 2004 that repealed the Public
Procurement Act of 2001 based on 2003 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
recommendations. The new Act and its associated Regulations were effective on May 1, 2005.
The new legislation improves the current procurement system.

 C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team on March 09, 2006 and i s available at Ministry o f Finance,
Ethics Secretariat, and Ministry o f Justice and Constitutional Affairs. It will also be available in
the project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Planwill be updated
in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommendedtwo supervision missions to visit the
field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

                                               - 101-

 E. Details ofthe ProcurementArrangements Involving International Competition

 1. Goods, Works, and NonConsulting Services

 (a) List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:
1    2              3          4            5      6         7             8          9

Ref Contract        Estimate   Procurement P-Q     Domestic   Review       Expected   Comments/
No.  Description    d          Method              Preference by Bank      Bid-       Implementing

                    us$
                    cost                           (yedno)    (Prior/Post) Opening    Agency
                                                                           Date
Works
01. Construction     3,528,158    ICB      NIA     YES        Prior         15112106     MJCA
    of Courtof
    Appeal
    Building
02. Construction     1,510,616    ICB      NIA     YES        Prior         15101/07     MJCA
    ofHighCourt
    Building
03. Construction       762,436    ICB      NIA     YES        Prior         30101I07     MJCA
    ofResident
    Magistrate
    court
    Building
04. Construction     1,020,000    ICB       NIA    YES        Prior         30101107     MJCA
    of MJCA HQ


05. Computer           475,670    ICB       NIA    YES        Prior          7108106      MOF
    Equipment
    and
    accessories
06.  Stationery        466,099    ICB       NIA    YES        Prior          17108106     MOF
07. Motor              219,660    ICB       NIA    YES        Prior          21108106     MOF
    Vehicles
08. Printing            57,000     DC       NIA    NIA        Prior          lOl08l06     MOF
    Procurement
     Guidelines,
    user manuals
09. Printing             4,000    ICB       NIA    NIA        Prior          12110106     MOF
     Guidelines for
    procurement
     appeals

  (b) ICB contracts for works estimated to cost above US $ 250,000 equivalent per contract, for
  goods estimated to cost above U S $ 200,000 equivalent per contract and all direct contracting
  will be subject to prior reviewbythe Bank.

                                                  - 102-

 2. ConsultingServices

 (a) List of consulting assignments with short-list o f internationalfirms.
                                                                          1
-1     2                              13           4          5           1 6         7

Ref    Descriptionof Assignment        Estimated   Selection  Review        Expected  Comments/
No.                                    cost        Method     by Bank       Proposals Implementing
                                                              (PriorDost) Submission  Agency
-                                                                           Date
 01.   Update designs and installation
                                                              2o/06'06
       o f MISIInterlink with ILMIS        116,000 QCBS       Prior         25111/06   MJCA
       for MJCA
 02.   Prepare departmental strategic I   200,000  QCBS       Prior                    MJCA
       glans for MJCA                 I    110.000 QCBS                     16/12/06
~03.   Design and      install generic                        Prior                    MJCA
-                                                                          I
       sector wide plans for MJCA
 04.   Prepare    an    implementation
       action plan for modernizing at     410,000  QCBS       Prior         09/09/06   MJCA
       least 20% o f law libraries for
       MJCA
 05.   Undertake a training needs
       assessment        in     policy    350,000  QCBS       Prior         10/06/06   M J C A
       formulation,       management
       analysis   and    research  for
-
 06.   Design     and     prepare   an
       implementation strategy     for
       information,    education  and     208,000  QCBS       Prior         15/06/06   M J C A
-      communication for PCO
 07.   Consultancy for the Mid term                                                    Ethics
-      review o f ATIP                     110,000 QCBS                                Secretariat
 08.   Carry out expenditure tracking
-      studies and follow-up actions      500,675  QCBS       Prior         03111/06   MOF
 09.   Carry out    commission due
       diligence   work     to  public     100,000 QCBS       Prior         27111/06   MOF
                                                              t
       enterprises
 10.   Carry    out    financial  and
       technical procurement audit o n    360,000  QCBS       Prior         30111/06   MOF
       20 MDAs
 11.   Study to transform supplies                                         I

-      units~ procurement units
             into                          180,000 QCBS       Prior         04112106   MOF
 12.
       all MDAs, PCB, and CAG o n
       the PPA 2004, regulations,         324,000  QCBS       Prior         08112/06   MOF
       bidding documents, guidelines
       and user manuals
 13.   Develop      and     implement
       procurement capacity building      360,000  QCBS                     13/12/06   MOF
-      strategy
 14.   Develop      and     implement
       management          information    360,000  QCBS       Prior         !5/11/06   MOF
-      system (MIS)

                                              - 103 -

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above U S $ 100,000 equivalent per contract and
single source selection o f consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consultancy services estimated to cost above U S $ 50,000 equivalent per contract for individual
consultants will b e subject to prior reviewby the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than U S $ 200,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

                                                               - 104-

                                     Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                      TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& IntegrityProject

Introduction

This annex presents an assessment o f the economic benefits that are expected as a result o f the
investments planned under the ATP project.                               Due to the cross cutting nature o f these
investments, it has not been possible to undertake a conventional economic analysis o f the
economic benefits that might arise from these investments for the economy.                                        However, the
positive contribution that the project will have on the economy can be summarized as follows.

Benefits from implementing the LSF2P and strengthening oversight and watchdog
institutions

The project i s expected to have positive economic benefits to the economy as a result o f
implementing the LSW and by strengthening oversight                                          and watchdog institutions.
Implementation o f the legal and judicial reform program will result in improvements in the
commercial legal environment, improvements in the delivery o f justice particularly in the rural
areas and generally observance o f the rule o f law. Improvement in the rule o f law will support
the achievement o f the NACSAP objective o f reducing corruption and improving governance in
Tanzania. The implementation o f the OW1component will result in improvements in domestic
accountability that will impact on efficiency inthe implementation of core reform programs and
achievement o ftheir intendedobjectives.

Benefitsfromimplementingthe PFMRP

The expected quantifiable benefits from implementing the PFMRP will arise primarily from
savings in budget deficit financing, savings in interest payments on domestic debt and savings
arising from reduction inprocurement losses. These savings are expected to accrue annually for
a period o f five years, commencing in year three o f implementation. In column two, various
parameters have been identified as a basis for quantifying the benefit streams. The next column
lists the values o f the budget deficit, annual domestic debt, and funds lost through procurement
inthe baseyear -August 2005.



Benefitstream                                   Basis for quantification of the flow         Base inTShs"
1. Interest saved due to a reduction            Budget deficit, saving rate 2% p.a.          1,608,250,000,000
inbudgetdeficits                                andborrowing interest 10%p.a.
2. Interest saved as a result of a Amount of domestic debt, debt 933,400,000,000
reduction in the level of domestic reduction rate 5% p.a. and interest rate
debts                                           10%p.a.
3. Savings from current losses in 20% loss of 70% of total public 1,615,397,807,700
nationalprocurement                             expenditure from corruption and
                                                savings 2.5% p.a.




23 Base figures for estimatingprogrambenefits are fromvanous sourcesincludingMoF's website (uww rnof POti), Parliament'swebsite
(N\+\Vnailianicnt 20 u),the Budget Speech (2004), PERsfor FY02 and 03, the CPAR (2003) etc

                                              - 105 -

Implementation of public financial management reforms will result in positive economic and
fiscal impacts. There will be significant budgetary benefits after implementation o f the project
compared to the current levels o f GOTannual expenditure. The PFMRP has an economic rate o f
returno f 26.3% at August 2005 prices. This is significantly higher than the opportunity cost of
capital o f 12%. These fiscal benefits will have an impact on the overall economy.

                                                                - 106 -

                                             Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                        TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& IntegrityProject

    Summary of Key SafeguardIssues

    ATP will finance civil works construction costs for completely new buildings; extension and
    rehabilitation o f existing buildings; demolition o f existing building and construction o f new
    buildings for selected high priority infrastructure for the Judiciary and Ministryo f Justice and
    Constitutional Affairs. There are potential negative impacts that could arise before construction
    such as loss o f vegetation during site clearing; pollution o f land and water resources arising from
    waste disposal during and after construction, soil erosion may result from inadequacies in
    backfilling construction works and improper drainage o f storm water; and unsafe disposal o f
    asbestos following demolitionhehabilitation o fbuildings. Potential social impacts that may arise
    include possible land acquisition and loss o f livelihoods, negative effects on health due to air
    pollution and noise during construction; blockage o f access during construction and diseases
    associated with poor sanitation duringuse o f the buildings. Another potential social impact may
    be increased pressure on existing water and other natural resources during construction and
    operation.

     The anticipated impacts from development o f the buildings and sub-projects to be funded by
    ATP will be short-term, site specific, confined and reversible and can be managed through the
    application o fmitigation and monitoring measures.

    Measurestaken by the borrowerto address safeguardpolicyissues

    An environmental and social management framework (ESMF) and a resettlement policy
    framework (RPF) have been prepared by the Borrower to guide the respective authorities to
    handle any o f these issues in case they arise.                        The ESMF and RPF have been reviewed                      ,
    commented upon and approved by the Bank and the Borrower. These documents have been
    disclosed incountry and at the World Bank Info Shop on February 20,2006.

    A review o f institutional capacities o f the implementing institutions MJCA and Judiciary
    revealed the lack o f capacity to plan and implement the ESMF. Training will be needed to
    establish such capacity within these two institutions. This has been described in the ESMF
    report and has beenincluded inthe project costs which are reflected below.

    Table A. 10.1: Costs for capacitybuildinginESMFimplementation

Activity                          Particulars                                                                             cost
                                                                                                                          estimates
TranslationinKiswahili and        Translation of ESMFinKiswahili (US$25 x 58 pages) printing, binding,                    US%175,000
dissemination of ESMF             dissemination of about 3,000 copies
Needs Assessment                IIMJCA and Judiciary inDar es Salaam,                                                    IUS$145,000
Needs Assessment                  Judiciary inDodoma, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro and Mbeya at $72,500 per region.                US$290,000
Training of designatedstaff       6 courses each $25,000 (costs include per diem, food, transport, accommodation,
                                  conferencehall, incidentals for participants, trainers and support staff
Workshop for decision makers      % day workshop of 20 Participants. Costs include diem, food, transport,
                                  accommodation, conferencehall, incidentals for participants, trainers and support staff
EIAs for infrastructure projects  15 EIAseach US$5,000.00                                                                 US$75,000
Total                                                                                                                     US%845,000

                                             - 107 -


Key stakeholdersand mechanismsfor consultationanddisclosure on safeguardpolicies

The key stakeholders include the National Environmental Management Council, Department o f
Environment, Ministry o f Justice and Constitutional Affairs, the Judiciary, the resident
magistrates and primary court magistrates and the communities in the localities where the
buildings will be located.

The draft ESMF and RPFhave beendiscussed by the government, NEMC and the World Bank.
The latter has reviewed and commented on the two documents. The final reports have been
approved by NEMC and have been disclosed in the relevant government ministries and
departments.    They have also been disclosed at the MJCA, resident magistrates' courts and
primary courts inrelevant areas.

The ESMF and the RPF set out the consultation processes that will be used before
constructionhehabilitation takes place.      These are in line with the Tanzania national
environmental impact assessment guidelines. Consultations with local communities and other
interested parties will be carried out during the screening process and in undertaking an
Environmental Impact Assessment. The project implementersMJCA and Judiciary will provide
all relevant material and information concerning the infrastructure projects in a timely manner
prior to consultation, ina form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups
beingconsulted. Dependingon the public interest inthe potential impacts o f the sub-projects, a
public hearingmay be requested to better convey the concerns.

Once the infrastructure projects have been cleared by NEMC and the Department o f
Environment, the implementers will inform the public the results o f the review.              For
infrastructure projects implemented at local level, the implementer in collaboration with the
village, hamlet governments will be responsible for disclosing the findings and recommendations
o f the environmental and social screening process to the village assembly and ward development
committee. The implementer will be responsible for taking the minutes o f the public disclosure
meeting, producing and distributing copies to the district/municipal councils, ward and
village/hamlet governments, political parties and NGOs/CSOs in the respective community. A
summary o f the outcome o fthis public disclosure meeting will be posted at appropriate places.

                                              - 108 -

                       Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
               TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project

                                         Planned                      Actual
Project Concept Note (PCN) review                                     October 18,2005
Initial Project Information Document                                  January 10,2006
(PID) to Public Information Center
(PIC)
Initial Integrated Safeguards Data                                    January 10,2006
Sheet (ISDS) to PIC
Appraisal                                                             February6,2006
Negotiations                                                          March 8 - 9,2006
BoardAXegional Vice President (RVP) May 9,2006
approval
Planneddate of effectiveness              August 1,2006
Planned date o fmid-termreview            June 2,2008
Plannedclosing date                      December 01,20 11

Key institutions responsible for preparation o fthe project:

Ministryo f Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Registrar, Court of Appeal, Ministryo f Finance,
National Audit Office, Ethics Secretariat, President's Office - Good Governance Coordination
Unit.

Bank staff andconsultants who worked on the project included:

Name                              Title                                      Unit
DenyseE.Morin                     Sr Public Sector Specialist                AFTPR
Denis M.Biseko                   Public Sector Specialist                    AFTPR
Elizabeth 0.Adu                  DeputyGeneral Counsel                       LEGVP
SaidN.A1Habsy                     Chief Counsel                              LEGAF
EdithRuguruMwenda                 Sr Counsel                                 LEGAF
Manush Hristov                    Counsel                                    LEGAF
Marius Koen                       Sr Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM
Mercy M.Sabai                     Sr FinancialManagement Specialist          AFTFM
Parminder P. S. Brar             Lead Financial Management Specialist        OPCFM
ModupeA. Adebowale                Sr. Finance Officer                        LOAG2
Steve J. Gaginis                  Sr Finance Officer                         LOAG2
Rogati A. Kayani                  Lead Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Pascal Tegwa                      Sr Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC
DonaldMneney                     Procurement Specialist                      AFTPC
BarbaraMagezi                    Public Sector Management Specialist         AFTPR
Sahr Kpundeh                      Sr Public Sector Specialist                AFTPR
Prasad C. Mohan                  LeadIEC Specialist                          A F T K L
Stephen Ndegwa                   PeerReviwer                                 PRMPS
Amithaba Mukherjee               Peer Reviewer                               ECSPE
Klaus Decker                     Peer Reviewer                               LEGJR

                                            - 109 -

KithinjiKiragu                 Public Sector Management Specialist   Consultant
Rwekaza Mukandala              Political Scientist                   Consultant
Joel Barkan                    Political Scientist                   Consultant
BettyBigombe                   Governance Specialist                 Consultant
Reynaldo P. Castro             Operations Specialist                 Consultant
Brian H.Falconer               FinancialManagement                   Consultant
MwanaishaKassanga              Team Assistant                        AFC04
England Maasaba                Team Assistant                        AFC04


Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources: $521,000
   2. Trust funds: 0
   3. Total: $521,000

Estimated Approval and Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $100,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $130,000

                                              - 110-

                             Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile
               TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project

Hyden, G., A power analysis for SIDA's country strategy inTanzania, 2005.

Evaluation o f project URT 00/006 and URT 00/06: Strengthening Capacities to Combat
Corruption inTanzania, Ghana Center for Democratic Development. Jul. 2004.

FILMUPImplementationCompletionReport, WorldBank.Nov. 2000.

Feasibility study and preliminary design o f an integrated management information systems for
the legal sector institutions, PricewaterhouseCoopers, June.2005

Feasibility study and pre-contract services o f the judiciary infrastructure, M / s Hab Consult Ltd
et. al.

Institutional assessment of the Tanzania Law School, PricewaterhouseCoopers.

MediumTerm Strategy for Legal Sector Reform 2005/06 - 2007/08, Vol. Iand 11, Ministryo f
Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Dec. 2004.

National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan, President's Office, Good Governance
Coordination Unit.

National Framework on Good Governance, President's Office, Good Governance Coordination
Unit.

Mukandala, R. and al, Political Economy o f Tanzania, 2005

Public Financial Management Reform Program Strategic Plan, Ministryo f Finance. Aug. 2005.

Research on Citizen's Access to Information and It's Use for Greater Government
Accountability and Responsiveness, IDASA, Dec. 2004.

Review o f the NBAA Corporate Plan, Delloite and Touche, Jun. 2005.

Study to identify the nature o f administrative support in the legal sector institutions, Checchi,
Dec. 2004.

Tanzania Ethics Promotion Project, Elaine Ward, University o f Calgary, Nov. 2004.

Understanding Accountability in Tanzania - Drivers o f Change, Oxford Policy Management,
2005.

Updating and harmonizing the legal framework for key legal sector institutions, M/s Desjardin
Duchame Stein Monist et. al., Jun. 2005.

                                                             - 111-

                                        Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits
                       TANZANIA: Accountability, Transparency& IntegrityProject




                                                                                                            Difference   between
                                                                                                            expected  and   actual
                                                       Original Amount in US$Millions                       disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                IBRD      IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO85786    2005 Second Social Action Fund                 0.00    129.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   156.00     0.17      0.00
PO70736    2005 TZ-Local    Govt  Support Project  SIL    0.00    52.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   54.29      0.00      0.00
                (FY05)
PO57234    2004 TZ-GEF Eastern Arc Forests SIL (FY04)     0.00     0.00      0.00      7.00   0.00    7.00      2.17      0.00
PO74624    2004 TZ-Emergency Power Supply (FY04)          0.00    43.80      0.00      0.00   0.00     8.41  -36.08       0.00
PO71014    2004 TZ-HIV/AIDS APL (FY04)                    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   74.82    14.12       0.00
PO78387    2004 TZ-Central TransportConidor Prj (FY04)    0.00    122.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   112.87   25.92       0.00
PO82335    2004 Second HealthSector Dev.                  0.00    40.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    39.35   17.57       0.00
P083080    2004 TZ-Secondary Edu Dev P i (FY04)           0.00    123.60     0.00      0.00   0.00   100.22    -0.13      0.00
PO67103    2003 TZ-Partic Agr Dev & Empwrmnt SIL          0.00     56.58     0.00      0.00   0.00    57.45     6.51       0.00
                (FY03)
PO59073    2003 DAR WATER SUP & SANITATION                0.00     61.50     0.00      0.00   0.00    52.10    10.40       0.00
PO74072    2003 TZ PRSCI                                  0.00    100.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     0.19 -132.38        0.00
PO73397    2002 TZ-Lower Kihansi Env Mgmt T A L (FY02)    0.00      6.30     0.00      0.00   0.00     4.30     1.84       0.00
PO58706    2002 TZ-Forest Conserv & Mgmt SIL (FY02)       0.00     31.10     0.00      0.00   0.00    33.38    13.78       0.00
PO47762    2002 RURALWATER SUPPLY                         0.00     26.00      0.00     0.00   0.00    25.19    11.49       0.00
PO02797    2002 TZ SONGO SONGO GAS DEV. &                 0.00    183.OO      0.00     0.00   0.00   103.07    69.46       0.00
                POWERGEN.
PO65372    2001 Social Action Fund                        0.00     60.00      0.00     0.00   0.00     0.75    -7.69       0.00
PO69982    2001 Regional Trade Fac. Proj. Tanzania
                                         -                0.00     15.00      0.00     0.00   0.00     8.84     6.52       0.00
PO49838    2000 Privatization                             0.00     45.90      0.00     0.00   0.00    30.16    27.15       0.00
PO57187    2000 FIDP I1                                   0.00     27.50      0.00     0.00   0.00    11.27     9.70       3.06
PO60833    2000 PUBLIC SERV REF PROG                      0.00     41.20      0.00     0.00    0.00   24.01   -19.48       0.00
PO47761    1999 Tax Administration                        0.00     40.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   15.46    10.38     10.38
PO02789    1998 Human Res. Dev. I                         0.00     20.90      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.48      0.17      0.00
PO46837    1997 TZ-Lake Victoria Environment (IDA)        0.00     10.10      0.00     0.00    0.00    3.54     -4.91      0.00
PO02770    1994 TZ ROADS I1                               0.00    170.20      0.00     0.00   63.53   14.72    82.42     41.43

                Total:                                    0.00   1,405.68     0.00     7.00   63.53  937.87   109.10     54.87

                                                        - 112-



                                                    TANZANIA
                          Statement o f International Finance Corporation (IFC's)
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillions ofUSDollars


                                         Committed                           Disbursed

                                         IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval Company                      Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic.  Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic.

1997        AEF Aquva Ginner             0.68        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.68    0.00      0.00   0.00
2001        AEF Boundary Hi1             0.20        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.20    0.00      0.00   0.00
1998        AEF Maji Masafi              0.18        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.18    0.00      0.00   0.00
2000        AEF Zan Safari               0.52        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.52    0.00      0.00   0.00
2002        Exim Bank                   2.08         0.00     1.oo     0.00     2.08    0.00      1.oo   0.00
1996        IHP                         0.23         0.00     0.00     0.00     0.23    0.00      0.00   0.00
2000        IOH                         2.50         0.00     0.00     0.00     2.50    0.00      0.00   0.00
2000        NBC                          0.00        10.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    3.63      0.00    0.00
1993        TPS (Tanzania)               3.50        0.87     1.04     0.00     3.50    0.87      1.04    0.00
1991197     TPS Zanzibar                 0.00        0.03     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.03      0.00    0.00
1994        Tanzania Brewery             0.00        3.43     0.00     0.00     0.00    3.43      0.00    0.00

            Total portfolio:               9.89      14.33    2.04     0.00     9.89    7.96      2.04    0.00




                                                           Approvals PendingCommitment
             FY Approval     Company                       Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic.




                             Total pendingcommitment:        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00

                                                                             - 113 -

                                                       Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                         TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project



                                                                           Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                     Saharan          Low-
                                                          Tanzanla       Africa     income        Jevelopment diamond'

2004
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 35.1         719       2,338
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              340          600         510                       Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                11.8         432       1.184                              7



Average annual growth, 1998-04

Population (%)                                                  2.6          2.2         1.8
Laborforce (%)                                                  -0.8          1.o        2.1      GNI                                        Gross
                                                                                                  per        +-+                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                             capita                                 enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)              35
Urban population (% of total population)                         36            37         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 51            46         58                              1

Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                          68          101          79
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 5)                        38                       44              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source       (% ofpopulation)         60            58         75
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                80            65         61
Gross primary enrollment     (% of school-agepopulation)        106            95         94                **- Tanzania

   Male                                                         108          102         101                - Low-Incomegroup
   Female                                                       104            88         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                     1984      1994        2003         2004       Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                     6.3       4.5         10.3        11.3
Gross capital formation1GDP                                     24.6         18.6        18.4
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                       8.3      20.6         17.6        19.1                           Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             7.8      -0.3          9.8         7.9
Gross national savings1GDP                             9.9       6.6         10.4         8.5                              T
Currentaccount balanceIGOP                            -5.0     -23.8         -7.6       -11.1
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                   0.9       1.5          0.4         0.5      Domestic                            Capital

Total debVGDP                                        114.7     160.4        65.7         65.4     savings                              formation

Total debt servicelexports                           26.6       21.5          5.1         6.5
Present value of debVGDP                                                     18.6        16.1
Presentvalue of debVexports                                               106.4        102.1
                                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                                 1994-04       2003        2004     2004-08
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                    5.0       7.1          6.7         7.3                 p*-m~  Tanzania
GOP per capita                                         2.1       5.0          4.2         4.7                 - Low-incomeO~OUD
Exportsof goods and services                           5.6       8.8          9.0         7.4



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                           526       450
Industry                                              109       151
  Manufactunng
Services                                              365       399

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                776       81 2
General govt final consumption expenditure            146       171
Imports of goods and services                         15 1      436


                                                 1984.94    1994.04         2003        2004
(averageannual growth)                                                                           IGrowth of exports and imports (YO)               I
Agriculture                                            3.5       3.9          4.0         6.0     40

Industry                                               1.o       7.4         10.4        10.1     30

  Manufacturing                                      39.9        5.8          8.6         8.6     20

Services                                               4.1       4.9          5.6         6.0     70
                                                                                                   0
HouseholdRnai consumptionexpenditure                   3.1       4.3          3.7         1.3    -10
General gov't Rnal consumptionexpenditure              0.7       7.6         29.6        20.9    -20
Gross capital formation                                3.8       5.0          5.6         9.2                 -Exports           -C--   Imports
Imports of goods and sewices                           2.7       4.3          6.9         3.2    1

Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
*The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamond will
   be incomplete.

                                                         - 114-




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1984  1994   2003    2004
Domestic prices
(99change)
Consumer prices                             36.1  37 2     4.4     4.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                              31 2     5.6     8.1
Government finance
(99of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                             18.1  10.5    12.1    13.0
Current budget balance                      -2.2   -1 8   -2.5    -3.5
Overall surplusldeficit                     -8.1   -5.1   -7.7    -9.3

TRADE
                                            1984  1994   2003    2004    I Exportand
(US$ millions)                                                                       import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                         388    486   1,010   1,175                                                  I
                                                                         2,500
 Coffee                                     154    115     49      41
 cotton                                      50    105     42      38    2,000

  Manufactures .                             33     77     76      95     1.500
Total imports (cif)                         856  1,344   1,821   2,366    1.000
  Food                                       83     97    146     257
  Fuel and energy                           230    124    261     461      500

 Capital goods                              336    597    751     677        0

Export price inde$2000=100)                  85     88     99      108            98  99    00     01    02    03

Import price inde$2000=100)                  104   145     112     133                kB Exports       0 Imports
Terms of tradq'2000=100)                     82     61     89      81

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1984  1994   2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                             Current accountbalanceto GDP (Oh)

Exportsof goods and services                491    855   1,716   1,911      0
Imports of goods and services               920  2,242   2,580   3,231      2
Resource balance                            -429 -1,387   -864  -1,320      4
                                                                           -6
Net income                                   -73  -154     -33     -68      8
Net current transfers                        186   465     119     132    -10
Current account balance                     -315 -1,076   -778  -1,256    -12
                                                                          -14
Financing items (net)                       350   1,183  1,239   1,497    -18
Changes in net resefves                      -35  -107    -461    -241   1.181

Memo:
Reserves including golg/S$ millions)               306   2,040   2,238
Conversion rat$DC, local/US$)               12.6 509.6  1,039.1 1,089.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                         I
                                            1984  1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                             Compositionof 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandingand disbursed        7,228  7,235  6,759   7,391
   IBRD                                      206    114      3       0
   IDA                                       518  1,998  3,474   3,916
Total debt service                           131    183     91     131
   IBRD                                       31    42       3       3
   IDA                                         5    70      29      41
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                            291   564     788     829
  Official creditors                         324    156    456     371
  Private creditors                           35      2     16      -4
   Foreign direct investment(net inflows)           63     232     232
   Pohfolio equity (net inflows)              0       0      0       0                C.423
World Bank program
  Commitments                                 35    195    251     451     A                                E Bilateral
                                                                                                              -
   Disbursements                              74   217     397     343     B IDA
                                                                             -- IBRD  0 . Othermultilateral F - Pnvate
   Principal repayments                       17    77      12      16     C-IMF                            G -Short-term
   Net flows                                  57    139    385     327
   Interestpayments                          20     35      20      28
   Net transfers                              38    104    365     299

                                              - 115 -



                                 Annex 15: Letter of Sector Policy
           TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& IntegrityProject


                                                               `RECEIVEDMARI20062

                              THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA               oom
                                                                            dR
                                       MINISTRYOF FINANCE                     L L `

Telegrams: "TREASURY', DARESSALAAM                         P.O.Box 9111,
Tal: 2111174-6, Fax: 2110326,Telex:41329                       DAR ES SALAAM,
(All official communicationsshouldbe                               TANZANIA.
addressedto the PermanentSecretaryto the
Treasuryand NOTto individuals).

In replyplease quote:
     . .
Ref. No:             TYC/ B/40/ 130                        1lth March, 2006



Ms Judy O'Connor,
Country Directorfor Tanzania and Uganda,
World Bank CountryOffice,
DAR ES SALAAM.



D e a r M s y o r , 1

 Re:         ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY PROJECT (ATIP)                 -
                         LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY

1.         I am writing on behalf of the Governmentof the United Republicof Tanzania to
requestfor a credit amountingt o US$40 million from t he InternationalDevelopment
Association (IDA) to support the TanzaniaAccountability, Transparency and Integrity
Project. This credit will contribute to our Government`s programs for enhancing good
governance, in line with our newly adopted NationalStrategy for Growth and Reduction
of Poverty (NSGRP or MKUKUTA in Kiswahili). The MKUKUTA focuses on three core
areas as instrumentalto poverty reduction in the period 2005-2010. The first two are (i)
Growth of the Economy and Reduction of Income Poverty and; (ii) Improvement of
Quality of Life and Social Well being. The third one (iii) on Governance and
Accountability, is the focus of support under the proposed ATIP credit. Specifically, the
credit will support implementationof the Legal Sector Reform Programme (LSRP); the
Public Financial Management Reform Programme                  (PFMRP); strengthening
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and
Action Plan (NACSAP); and an innovative programme to strengthen the demand side

                                              - 116-


' for transparency, integrity and accountability in use of public resources and improved
  public service delivery.


  A.      Background
  2.      Successive governments of this country since independence have recognized
  that good governance is critical to enhancing and sustaining Tanzania's peace and
  stability, economic growth, social development and poverty reduction. In this
   perspective, the Third Phase Government of President Benjamin Mkapa promulgated a
  National Framework for Good Governance (NFGG) in 1999. The NFGG envisions a
  long term and comprehensive approach in the pursuit of the Government's policy goals
   in good governance.This frameworkemphasizesfocus on the following:

      (a) Participationof the people in decision-makingfor social, political and economic
           development;

      (b) Legal and regulatoryframeworkfor privatesector development;

      (c) Constitutionalism, the rule of law, administration of justice and protection of
           human rights;

      (d) Gender equity;

      (e) Accountability, transparency, and integrity in managementof public affairs;

      (f) Electoraldemocracy;and

      (9) Greater public service capabilitiesto deliver services efficiently and effectively.

   3.     This holistic approach reflects the understanding that' attainment of good
   governance at the national level entails a wide front of inclusive strategic measures that
   cover central and local governments, the private sector and the civil society.
   Furthermore,this comprehensive strategic framework underscores the linkages among
   the various areas of focus. It is thereby feasible to formulate specific strategies and




                                              2

                                                  - 117-



action programmes, such as the LSRP, PFMRP and NACSAP without loosing sight of
the ultimate long term goals and the complementaritiesof the proposedinterventions.


4.      The NFGG envisions a broad-based national partnership for development of
good governance. The partnershipinvolves the central government, local governments,
private sector and civil society, as illustratedinthe figure below.




               Figure:Partnershipfor GoodGovernanceinTanzania




                                       (and irs orgmbalio




   Source: Government,TheNationalFrameworkon Good Governance, December1999


Under NFGG, four major policy and strategic initiatives have been formulated, viz: the
Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP), the Local Government Reform Programme
(LGRP), the Legal Sector Reform Programme (LSRP), the Public Financial
Management Reform Programme (PFMRP) and the National Anti-Corruption Strategy
and Action Plan (NACSAP). The Third Phase Government has implemented these
programme to varying degrees of success. In his maiden speech to Parliament in
January 2006, H.E Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United Republic of
Tanzania promised to build on the strategies and programmes of the Third Phase
Government. Therefore, as elaborated below, these programmes still constitute the


                                                  3

                                             - 118-


policy and strategic framework for enhancing accountability, transparency and integrity
in the use of public resources and public service delivery.


B.     Public FinancialManagementReform Programme


5.     The main goal of the Public Financial Management Reform Programme
(PFMRP) is to improve the management of public financial resources for economic
growth, public service delivery and poverty reduction. The PFMRP aims at improving
the strategic orientation of the MoF to provide leadership in implementing public
financial management across government and ensure its efforts are coordinated with
other reform programs and sector initiatives. Implementationof the PFMRPwill result in
an enhanced capacity of MoF to manage public financial resources in an effective,
transparent and accountable manner and associated improvements in the ministries,
departments and agencies (MDAs) public financial management capacity. It will also
result in a strengthened capacity of the National Audit Office (NAO) to perform its
oversight function effectively. The PFMRP has six key strategic goals: (i) improved
capacity of the MoF for sound macroeconomic and fiscal management; (ii) devolved
decision-makingand accountabilityfor resourcesto MDAs; (iii) improved predictability of
resources to MDAs; (iv) enhanced value-for-money in the use of public resources; (v)
reduced dependency on external financing; and (vi) capacity for sustained
improvementsin management and program implementation.


6.     The current phase of the PFMRP (2004-2009 ) builds on the major strides made
in macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization, a nd public expenditure management since
the second half of the 1990s.The basic modulesof an integratedfinancial management
system (IFMS) have been successfully operationalized for some years in all ministries,
departments and agencies (MDAs). These systems have enabled particularly effective
accounting and budgetary control of public expenditures. IFMS is also in use in 32 local
government authorities (councils). It will be installed in another 32 councils during this
fiscal year (2005/06). The target under the PFMRP is to roll out to all councils in the
next three years. When that is accomplished, there will be for the first time a reliable


                                            4

                                             - 119 -


basis for consolidating the execution, control and accounting for the total Government
budget (central and localgovernments).


7.     A particularly noteworthy development under the PFMRP is the implementation
of the Strategic Budget Allocation System (SBAS), which enables consistency between
strategic plans and budgets. SBAS has facilitated focusing of public expenditures to
strategic priorities, and today MKUKUTA-related funding accounts for 54 percent of
Central Government budget allocation. Over time, as MKUKUTA gets fully costed and
interventions prioritised and sequenced, the Government's Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) will translate comprehensively the policy objectives into
programmes, targets and activities. Successful implementation of the PFMRP will
therefore facilitate efficient and effective use of public expenditures in pursuit of
MKUKUTAgoals.


C.     Legal Sector Reform Program
8.     The imperativeto t ransform Tanzania'sIegal andj udicial systems has been a
key policy objective for the past decade. However, progress in the reform of this sector
has been comparativelyslow. The problemsand constraintsunderlyingthe weakness of
the legal and judicial system have been identifiedby stakeholders as: (i)a fragmented,
excessively bureaucratic, cumbersomeand outdated legal and regulatory framework;
(ii) weak managementand coordinationof legal sector institutions;(iii) low competence,
morale and integrity of public sector legal personnel; (iv) inadequate numbers of
professionally-trainedlegal personnel: (v) limitedaccess to legal and judicial services by
poor and uninformed citizens; and (vi) poorly furnished, equipped and maintainedwork
environment of public legal sector institutions. In response to these deficiencies, the
Government has developeda comprehensiveLegal Sector Reform Programme (LSRP).

9.     Achieving the strategic goals under the LSRP will be a long-term undertaking,
and will transcend the current medium-term (three-year) programme (2005-2008). The
mediumterm plan hasthe followingsix key result areas:




                                             5

                                                - 120-


   (a) establishmentof harmonizednationallegalframework:
   (b) increased access to justice for the poor and disadvantaged;
   (c) improved governance and administrativejustice;
   (d) improved skills and know1,edgeof legal professionals;
   (e) improved service delivery capacityin key legal sector institutions;and
   (f) effective programmemanagement,coordination, and monitoringand evaluation,


10.    The LSRP is the result of a long participatory processthat startedwith a series of
comprehensive studies on the legal/judicialsystem carried out underthe leadership of a
Legal Reform Task Force. The Task Force report produced in 1996 highlighted issues
that overall remainvalid. The LSRP and its medium-term strategy and action plan were
prepared in response to the Task Force's recommendations. The dialogue involved
many stakeholders, both government and non-government, who together designed the
overall LSRP over a long period.

11.     Government is according particularly high priority to the implementation of the
LSRP, which is seen to lag behind the other crosscutting reform programs that are
underway. Failure to make rapid progress in the reform of the sector would undermine
the gains made in the other areas of public service, public finance, local government,
and sectoral reforms,and wouldjeopardize achievingthe MKUKUTAobjectives.


D.      National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan
12.     Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan
(NACSAP) is the focus of the Government's interventions to combat corruption. It
provides the framework within which ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) are
expected to initiate concrete measures to address corruption. NACSAP I was a
coherent and holistic programme designed to be implemented over five years (2000-
05). Under NACSAP I,a set of high priority areas of interventionswere identified under
the following headings:

   0    inefficientand ineffective public service delivery;

   0    corruption;



                                              6

                                              - 121-


      weak legal and judicial systems;
      gaps in procedures and controls for public expenditure management and more
      broadly financial accountability;
      poor managementof informationincludingrecords and data; and
      weak oversight and watchdog institutions.

13.   Government established the Good Governance Coordination Unit (GGCU) in the
President`s Office to coordinate the implementation of NACSAP which includes
monitoring the implementation of the crosscutting reforms as a crucial vehicle to
discourage and control corruption. The GGCU has mobilized MDAs to report regularly
and systematicallyon their fight against corruption, and the published quarterly reports
on the implementation of the MDAs' anti-corruption plans depict substantial progress.
Tanzania's commitmentto improve good governance, and the results thereof, has been
recognised by local and international stakeholders including a finding from a recent
survey that the country'sgovernance profile made the most improvement in all three
governance areas (Voice and Accountability,Government Effectiveness,and Control of
Corruption) over the last ten years among African countries south of Sahara'. All local
governments (councils) are also required to commencethis fiscal year, 2005106, the
implementation of anti-corruption strategies and action plans they prepared under the
guidance and supervisionof the GGCU last year.


14.   Government is now in the processof taking stock of its achievementswith MDAs'
implementation of the NACSAP I, as well as designing a successor phase. The key
thrust of the next NACSAP will remain the same. Government is also taking broad
measures to strengthen the GGCU through, among others, increasing the number of
staffand enhancingtraining.

E.    Strengthening the Demand Side of Good Governance
15.   Tanzania has led the way in establishing oversight institutions for good
governance. In 1995, it introduced a leadership code of ethics and established the

`Kaufmann, Kraay and Mastruzzi(2005) http://www.worldbank.org/wbi/governmane/govdata
                                    -

                                             7

                                            - 122 -


Ethics Secretariat whose executive officer is a Judge of the High Court.           It also
established a Prevention of Corruption Bureau (PCB) and a Commission for Human
Rights and Good Governance (CHRGG). This is in addition to the more traditional
institutions such as Parliament and the NAO. In spite of this multiplicity of institutions,
the country continues to face serious governance problems. The afore-mentioned
oversight institutions remain weak.

These weaknesses emanatefrom the common maladies that have afflicted other public
institutions, including: under-funding of operations, inability to recruit, motivate and
retain well qualified and strongly motivatedofficers, overlapping mandates that give rise
to conflicts, absence of collaborationand coordination amongst these institutions, and a
weak legal framework.        The NFGG therefore sets the goal to strengthen these
institutions and their framework to enable them to exercise more effectively their
oversight role and to hold public service managers more accountable.

16.     The NFGG also states that civil society institutions (Le. NGOs, CBOs, religious
societies, trade unions, charities, clubs, cultural groups, sports associations, special
interest groups, professional associations, academic and research institutions, etc.)
constitute a strong instrument for the effective participation and involvement of the
people in decision-making, and social, political and economic development activities.
Also, civil society organizations have a crucial role in informing and sensitizing the
people. In t his context, the framework advocates the need to strengthen c ivil society
organizations by increasingcitizens'voice in pursuitof good governance.

17.     In the NFGG, furthermore, it is recognized that civil society organizations in the
country have considerable capacity weaknesses, in areas of problem analysis,
advocacy, outreach, networking, management, revenue raising, accountability and
responsiveness. A key factor that underlies the weaknesses in the civil society
organizations includes a reform focus on the supply side (public sector) of the
accountability equation. The NFGG stipulates that enhanced and sustained
accountability of state institutions in the long run will require strengthening of the
institutionsthat represent the demand side of the accountability equation, including civil



                                            8

                                             - 123 -

society and mass media organizations. Government is keen to realizethis development,
and hence its endorsement of the initiative in the ATIP to strengthen the oversight and
watchdog institutions through the Facility for Enhanced Accountability and
Transparency (FEAT).


F.      Conclusion
18.     Good governance is critical to enhancing and sustaining Tanzania's peace and
stability, economic growth, social development and poverty reduction.               Our
Government's policy objectives for good governance are well articulated in the third
cluster of the MKUKUTA. Several programs that constitute a comprehensive strategy
for pursuit of good governance have been Iaunched as described in this Ietter. The
fourth phase Government of H.E. President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete is not only
committed to build on the achievements from the past, but also to accelerating and
enhancing efficiency and effectiveness of implementation of these programmes. The
President has, in his inaugural s peecht o Parliament pledged that "The fourth p hase
government will fulfil its governance and development responsibilities and will focus on
good governance and accountability,the rule of law and respect for the human rights of
all people." ATIP will support fully and timely implementation of the programmes that
will enable Government to deliver on her pledges. Government appreciates the support
of the World Bank in the implementationof these programmes.


        Thanking you for your cooperation.


                                    Yours sincerely
                                       n


                                    Gray S. Mgonja
                        PERMANENT SECRETARY -TREASURY




                                           9

                       - 124-

                 Annex 16: Maps
TANZANIA: Accountability,Transparency& Integrity Project


                MapNumber 33494

                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33494


                                                                          TANZANIA

                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                              RAILROADS

                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                        RIVERS                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                       30E                        32E                      34E                         36E                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                     To
                                                                                     To
0                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                    Tororo                                                                                                            0
                                                 To
                                                 To
                        UGANDAKampala
                           To
                           To
                         Kampala                              Lake
                                 Kagera                                                                         To
                                                                                                                To
                                                            Victoria                                        Nakuru                                 K E N Y A
                                                   Bukoba            Musoma          Mara                                   To
                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                          Nakuru
                                       Buoen
                   RWANDA KAGERA                                                M A R A
2S                                                                                                                                                                                                  2S
                                                                                                      Lake
                                                          Mwanza                                     Natron
  ToKama                                               M WA N Z A               Simiyu              A R U S H A        Kilimanjaro
                                                                                                                          (5895 m)
                   BURUNDI                                                                                     Arusha           Moshi
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                        Lake                                                                            Malindi
                                  Kibondo
                                       Moyowosi           Yalova
                                            S H I N YA N G A                           Eyasi               Lake
                                                                        Shinyanga                          Manyara
                                                      Kahama                                                                    Pangani  KILIMANJARO
                                                                     Nzega      Steppe                                                                                                               4S
                                                                                                         Babati                       Same
  CONGO                  K I G O M A                                                                                     Masai                                                               PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
                           Kasulu                                                                                        Steppe
                     Kigoma                                                       Singida
       OF.                                        Kaliua                                                  Kondoa
                                                                 Tabora Iwembere  SINGIDA                                                                                       Wete         PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                     Tanga                   SOUTH

                                                    TA B O R A                                                                             TA N G A                             Mkoani       ZANZIBAR
          REP           Lake                Ugalla                                            Manyoni                                                                                        NORTH

                        Tanganyika                                                                       DODOMA                         Mts.                           Mkokotoni             ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                        Zanzibar         Koani               CENTRAL
                              Mpanda                                                                                                        Wamimi
                                                                                                    D O D O M A                             Wa                                               ZANZIBAR
             DEM.                                                                                                           Nguru
                                                                                                                              Morogoro                 Kibaha                                WEST
                                 R U K W A                                                                                                                              Dar Es Salaam
                                                       Rungwa                                                Great       MOROGORO                                           DAR ES SALAAM

                                                                                                                       Ruaha                            P WA N I
                                                           Lake                                          Iringa
8S                           Sumbawanga                   Rukwa  M B E Y AangeR              I R I N G A                                             Utete                                          8S

                                                    Mpui             Mbeya                                                                Rufiji                                INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa
                                                                 Mbeya                                      Kilombero                               Matandu                Kivinje


                                                                 Tunduma
                                               To
                                               To
                                          Kasama                                  Kipengere                                                                                     OCEAN
                                                                                            Njombe
                                                                                                                                                        L I NuD I

10S

                                                         To
                                                         To
                                                        Kasama                               Range                                                      Mbemkur                  Lindi              10S
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mtwara

                   ZAMBIA
                                                                             To
                                                                             To                        Songea                                                 Masasi
                                                             TANZANIAKasungu
                                                                            Lake                      R U V U M A                                  MTWARA
                                                                                                                                        Tunduru
                                                                        Malawi                                                                          Ruvuma


                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                   Chire
                                                                                                                                                                   Chire

                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                            12S

                                                                                               To
                                                                                               To                    Marrupa   MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                            Lichinga


                                                                                                                            0       50     100     150    200 Kilometers



                                                   32E                      34E                         36E              0             50        100         150 Miles         40E

                                                                                                                                                                                                 JULY 2005

