Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1840 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/10/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Tanzania 
Project ID: P070544 
Project Name: Accountability, Transparency & Integrity 
Task Team Leader: Denyse E. Morin 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 6, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 2, 2006 
Managing Unit: AFTPR 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Law and justice (70%);General finance sector (15%);Central government 
administration (15%) 
Theme: Other accountability/anti-corruption (P);Public expenditure, financial 
management and procurement (P);Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms 
(P);Standards and financial reporting (S);Law reform (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
40.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
10.00 
 
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
50.00
60.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
ATIP will contribute to increased effectiveness, transparency and accountability of GOT public 
sector reforms by (i) strengthening legal and judicial systems through increasing access to courts, 
improving case management and performance of staff in the judiciary and legal service 
institutions (ii) enhancing public financial accountability through improved management of fiscal 
policy, public debt, public assets and government budget and procurement regulations; and (iii) 
strengthening oversight and watchdog institutions and non state actors to effectively undertake 
their oversight role.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project will have three components, (a) Support to Legal/Judicial Reform (LSRP) 
Component; (b) Support to Public Finance Management Reform Program (PFMRP) Component; 
Page  2
and (c) Strengthening Oversight and Watchdog Institutions (OWIs).  These project components 
are described below.  
 
ATIP will join DPs to support the LSRP through a pooled fund arrangement.  The same will be 
done for the PFMRP that is already supported by two DPs, namely DFID and the European 
Union (EU).  The third component “strengthening OWIs” will have a flexible fund that will 
support demand-driven requests.  This fund will be managed by the Ethics Secretariat.  
 
Support to Legal/Judicial Reform (LSRP) Component – US$ 25 million (IDA)  
 
ATIP will support GOT's medium-term strategy and action plan for LSRP in collaboration with 
other DPs.  The Government’s LSRP seeks to achieve results in five key areas:  
 
(i) 
Taking a comprehensive approach to harmonize the national legal framework by 
amending key legislation, streamlining the prosecution process and improving the capacity for 
legal research and law reform;  
 
(ii) 
Increasing access to justice for the poor and disadvantaged through the preparation of 
guidelines for handling special cases, the establishment of a case-flow management system for 
primary courts, the creation of aid centres, the translation of legal information into Kiswahili and 
the expansion of the primary court system (construction and rehabilitation);  
 
(iii) 
Enhancing human rights and administrative justice by training law enforcement officers, 
strengthening the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance and establishing client 
service charters for legal/judicial institutions with a view to introduce more transparency and 
reducing corrupt practices;  
 
(iv) 
Improving the skills and knowledge of legal professionals through the upgrading of the 
national legal training curriculum, the establishment of a law school and continuing education; 
and  
 
(v) 
Improving service delivery capacity in key legal institutions by strengthening 
management and coordination of legal/judicial institutions, enhancing the competence, 
motivation and integrity of personnel through improved legal registries and upgrading of a 
number of facilities.  
 
The LSRP will be implemented by the following institutions: Judiciary, Ministry of Justice and 
Constitutional Affairs (MJCA), Law Reform Commission (LRC) and the Commission for 
Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRGG).  The Bank would join other DPs in providing 
harmonized support for the government’s reform program.Modalities for financing and 
managing the program are in the final stage of design.  The government’s LSRP covers activities 
that aim at strengthening electoral democracy and the police force, but the IDA credit would not 
support these two areas.  
 
Support to Public Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP) Component – US$ 10 
million (IDA)  
 
The project will support the implementation of the PFMRP whose objective is to improve the 
management of public financial resources for economic growth, public service delivery and 
poverty reduction.  The PFMRP strategic plan draws on the Country Financial Accountability 
Page  3
Assessment (CFAA), Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and the IMF’s Report 
on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) analyses and recommendations.  
 
The PFMRP will be involved in the following key strategic areas:  
 
(i) 
Build capacity of Ministry of Finance in macro economic and fiscal policy management 
including improving staff skills in economic forecasting, providing forecasting tools and 
establishing an institutional mechanism for monitoring, reporting and stakeholder consultation; 
and improve the institutional framework for debt management;  
 
(ii) 
Facilitate devolved decision-making and accountability for resources by expanding on the 
use of technology across government, including increasing modules in IFMS and training staff; 
and establishing and promoting best practices in public financial management.  
 
(iii) 
To institute predictable flows of resources to public service managers by redesigning 
existing procedures to enhance the linkages between the expenditure framework and allocations; 
increase the proportion of external finances that are recorded in the budget; and improve access 
to information on aid flows;  
 
(iv) 
To enhance value for money in the use of public resources by redesigning systems and 
processes for planning and budget preparation, budget execution and monitoring; strengthening 
procurement practices by establishing a procurement cadre in the public sector; and improving 
the systems and quality of external audit services;  
 
(v) 
To reduce dependency on external financing by expanding the tax base through 
rationalization of tax exemption regime; improving mechanisms for coordinating and managing 
external financing for rationalized decision making; and establishing a system for managing 
contingent liabilities of public enterprises.  
 
(vi) 
To strengthen capacities for managing the reforms by establishing a clear monitoring and 
evaluation framework, MIS and ICT support.  
 
The Bank would subscribe to the ongoing sector-wide approach program (SWAp) and its 
established pool arrangements.  At present EU and DFID have signed the Memorandum of 
Understanding for the pooled funds and others are expected to join shortly.  
 
Strengthening Oversight and Watchdog institutions (OWIS) Component – US$ 5 million (IDA)  
 
This component aims at strengthening the demand side of accountability.  The strategic entry 
points for support to the OWIs will comprise predominantly: (i) strengthening professional 
associations to promote ethics and accountability within society and among professional bodies; 
and (ii) strengthening institutions for the generation and dissemination of good quality 
information on public policy.The support will be provided through a Fund for Ethics, 
Accountability and Transparency (FEAT) for which OWIs would present capacity development 
requests.  The rules of the game and criteria to access the FEAT will be spelled out and there will 
be checks and balances to ensure a transparent modus operandi.  At present it is envisaged that 
the Ethics Secretariat would manage the FEAT.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The project will cover a number of locations, which will be decided at appraisal.   
 
Page  4
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
A
National Environment Act has been passed by parliament.  World Bank is supporting 
preparation of regulations that will operationalize the Act, through the Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit and the Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project.  
 
The Government has commissioned a study to prepare an Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework.  These will guide the 
government in observing safeguard policies when implementing the project.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Serigne Omar Fye (AFTS1) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Significant amount of construction of judiciary infrastructure may lead to environmental 
impact to communities in project sites   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Some land may be acquired from current uses resulting into loss of land for current users   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  12/20/2005 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
Environmental and social management framework and resettlement policy framework to be 
completed by end of Dec. 2005, and will be disclosed in country prior to appraisal.  The 
Sector Unit has agreed to accept transfer of the safeguard responsibilities.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Denyse E. Morin 
01/10/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Serigne Omar Fye 
 
Comments:  Transferred project. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helga W. Muller 
01/10/2006 
Comments:   
