                                       Document
                                          of
                                   The World Bank


                                                        Report No: 55451-TZ




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                           OF

           ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY PROJECT

                                        CREDIT

                                        TO THE

                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA


                                 SEPTEMBER 30, 2010




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Eastern Africa Country Department 1
Africa Region




                                           1
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       Exchange Rate Effective July 12, 2010

                   Currency Unit         = United States Dollar
                   1 SDR                 = 1.4960 United States Dollar


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFROSAI   African Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
ATIP      Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project
CAG       Controller and Auditor General
CSO       Civil Society Organization
FEAT      Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency
GGCU      Good Governance Coordination Unit
IDA       International Development Association
IFMS      Integrated Financial Management System
LGA       Local Government Authority
LSRP      Legal Sector Reform Program
MDAs      Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MOCAJ     Ministry of Constitutional Affairs and Justice
MOFEA     Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NAO       National Audit Office
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
OWI       Oversight and Watchdog Institution
PDO       Project Development Objective
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM       Public Financial Management
PFMRP     Public Financial Management Reform Program
PPRA      Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
RMF       Results Monitoring Framework
SDR       Special Drawing Rights




             Regional Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:        John Murray McIntire
                    Sector Manager:         Anand Rajaram
                  Task Team Leader:         Denis Biseko



                                          2
                                                     TANZANIA

            ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY PROJECT


                                                  P070544
                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

SUMMARY
PROJECT STATUS
PROPOSED CHANGES
ANNEX         RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING



                                                    List of Tables

Table 1: Reallocation of Credit in SDR......................................................................................7




                                                             0
         ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY PROJECT
                      RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of management to introduce the following
changes in the Tanzania - Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project (ATIP) and any
accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents: (i) changing the sub-
components and activities under component 1 on strengthening legal and judicial reform of
the project to ensure effective use of the credit for its remaining duration; (ii) refining the
project Results Monitoring Framework (RMF) to ensure results are appropriately captured;
and (iii) re-allocation of the credit for sub-components under component 3 of the project. The
proposed changes will not affect the Project Development Objective (PDO). They are
intended to ensure effective utilization of the credit to achieve the PDO.


PROJECT STATUS
2. The International Development Association (IDA) credit for the ATIP, Cr 4171-TA, was
   approved by the Board in May 2006, became effective in July of the same year and is
   expected to close on December 31, 2011. The PDO is to contribute to improved access
   to judicial and legal services and in the accountable and transparent use of public
   financial resources. This will be achieved by improving the skills and systems to deliver
   judicial/legal services and public financial management, and strengthening the capacity
   of Oversight and Watchdog Institutions (OWI's) to perform their role.

3.      The project is a Specific Investment Loan of SDR 27.9 million (US$40 million
equivalent at appraisal) that supports the following four components, the first two
implemented jointly with bilateral partners: (i) strengthening the legal and judicial system -
total donor commitment at appraisal was US$71.3 million including IDA contribution of
US$25 million, (ii) enhancing public financial accountability - total donor commitment at
appraisal of US$68.9 million of which IDA's contribution is US$10 million, (iii)
strengthening OWIs ­ US$4.6 million, and (iv) project coordination ­ US$0.4 million.
Contributing partners for the first component are Canada, Denmark and Sweden and for the
second component namely Canada, Denmark, Department for International Development of
the United Kingdom, Japan and Norway. IDA is the only donor for the remaining two
components. For the first three components, the implementing agencies are the Ministry of
Constitutional Affairs and Justice (MOCAJ), the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
(MOFEA) and the Ethics Secretariat, respectively, while the Good Governance Coordination
Unit (GGCU) is responsible for project coordination.

4.       This project has been in problem status since December 2008, when the
implementation progress was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Most of the ATIP funded
activities under component 1 have experienced substantial delays and slow disbursements and


                                              1
this has jeopardized full realization of the intended results. Of the US$40 million loan,
US$14.9 million has been disbursed by the end of June 2010. A mid-term review (MTR) of
the ATIP carried out in March 2009 recommended restructuring of component 1 in particular
to ensure the project achieves its intended results. The performance of the project to date is
summarized below.

Component 1: Strengthening the legal and judicial system - US$71.3 million (IDA
contribution US$25 million).

5.      This component supports the Government's Legal Sector Reform Program (LSRP) in
collaboration with other partners (Canada and Denmark) using a Sector Wide Approach
Program through a basket funding modality with the objective of improving access to legal
and judicial services for all Tanzanians through improving the capacity of selected legal and
judicial institutions. Sweden withdrew its support to the LSRP in 2008/09.

6.      An independent review of the LSRP by donors and Government in August/September
2009 concluded that only two of the six sub-components performed satisfactorily. This
component is the largest under the ATIP and has six sub-components, namely: (a) establish a
harmonized national legal framework; (b) increased access to justice for the poor and
disadvantaged; (c) improved governance and administrative justice; (d) improved skills and
knowledge of legal professionals; (e) improved service delivery in key legal institutions; and
(f) program management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. The two satisfactory
sub-components are the establishment of a harmonized national legal framework and
improved skills and knowledge of legal professionals.

7.      Under establishment of a harmonized national legal framework, considerable progress
has been made in identifying laws for which social justice, safety and economic development
should be improved or for which harmonization was considered necessary. Since 2008 to
date 46 pieces of legislation have been updated by incorporating amendments and repealing
outdated laws largely through Government's own funding. However, for most of the updated
and harmonized laws, the final enactment of these laws has depended on political will. As a
result, a number of these updated laws are awaiting formal approval and publication in the
official Gazette. Some of the more notable laws for present purposes include (i) The Children
and Young Persons Act, (ii) The Probation of Offenders Act, (iii) The Minimum Sentences
Act, and (iv) The Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act.

8.      In improving the skills and knowledge of legal professionals, Government has made
satisfactory progress in establishing the Law School of Tanzania. In the first year of its
operation in 2008, 482 students were admitted in the first cohort. Another 300 have been
enrolled in the second cohort and to date it is estimated to have enrolled 1,000 students.
Construction of the Law School of Tanzania is at pre-qualification stage. The graduates from
the Law School are expected to ease the shortage of qualified legal professionals in the legal
and judicial institutions.

9.     Performance in the four other sub-components has been unsatisfactory. The main
reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of the LSRP are (a) the capacity constraints in



                                              2
MOCAJ to coordinate a very large program involving 15 legal sector institutions; (b) the low
technical capacity of the MOCAJ Project Coordination Office in coordinating implementing
agencies in financial management, procurement, planning and budgeting, monitoring and
reporting, as well as providing technical guidance on the same; (c) weakness in the leadership
of the program to implement the institutional arrangements of the LSRP in driving the reform
program; it is only recently that the highest body in coordinating the reforms the Steering
Committee has become functional; and (d) delays in planning and implementing the
construction of judiciary infrastructure that led to cost escalation for planned investments.
The construction program for the judiciary included a court of appeal, four high courts, and 30
primary courts. Due to cost escalation, the construction program was revised to include the
court of appeal and 27 primary courts, 7 of which have already been constructed or
rehabilitated. Government has recently decided to finance the court of appeal using own
funds. This has led to a saving on the construction budget of the ATIP by US$6 million.
Given the delays in implementing the LSRP, and the experience in implementing the program
to date, it is proposed to review and restructure this component to ensure the remaining funds
are better utilized to achieve the expected results.

Component 2 ­ Enhancing Public Financial Accountability US$68.9 million (IDA
contribution US$10 million)

10.      This component aims at supporting the Government's Public Financial Management
Reform Program (PFMRP). The PFMRP aims at improving the strategic orientation of
MOFEA to provide leadership in implementing Public Financial Management (PFM) across
Government and ensure its efforts are coordinated with other reform programs and sector
initiatives. Implementation of the PFMRP will contribute to an enhanced capacity of
MOFEA to manage public financial resources in an effective, transparent and accountable
manner and associated improvements in public financial management capacity of the
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).

11.     The overall cost of the PFMRP, based on the revised strategy is US$63.3 million with
the IDA contributing US$10 million. This component's effectiveness was delayed by three
years due to Government's decision in late 2006 to revise the PFMRP strategy. This resulted
in the postponement of the signing of the revised Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
until this revision was completed. Government and development partners signed a revised
MOU in March 2009 thus allowing IDA disbursements to this component. The revised
strategy that is under implementation was expected to last for two years ­ 2008/09 to 2009/10.
However, it has been extended for another year to allow for adequate preparation of a
successor phase of the PFMRP. The IDA disbursed US$5 million in 2009/10, with the
remaining amount to be disbursed in 2010/11.

12.    Based on Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) ratings, Tanzania's
performance on PFM is considered to be among the best in Africa. Some key achievements
have included setting up an Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) with a single
payment account that has been rolled out to all Ministries in Dar es Salaam; strengthening the
system of external audit; and enactment of legal framework for public financial management
including a Public Finance Act; a Public Procurement Act, and recently a National Audit Act,



                                              3
that define the regulatory framework for public finance, procurement and external audit.
Tanzania currently has a well functioning Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA)
and a National Audit Office (NAO).           Government remains committed to further
improvements in PFM and continues to refine the PFM regulatory environment, in particular
with regard to Local Government Authorities (LGAs).

13.    Further progress however, requires addressing some major challenges in the PFMRP
in order to achieve sustainable results. The PFMRP objective and design are too ambitious,
with a broad set of activities that cannot be undertaken fully within the program timeframe.
The program also lacks prioritization of these interventions, which undermines efficiency in
implementation. On the other hand, major weaknesses still exist in the PFM cycle especially
in the reliability of the medium term expenditure framework's two outer years as an
instrument for resource allocation; unpredictability of the funds flow to the MDAs; and
weaknesses in the IFMS, in particular in bank reconciliation and other functionalities. Going
forward, improvements in PFM are aimed at addressing these shortcomings.

Component 3: Strengthening Oversight and Watchdog Institutions ­ US$4.6 million
(IDA US$4.6 million)

14.      This component is designed to strengthen the demand for accountability by oversight
and watchdog institutions and improvements in ethics and integrity among professionals. The
component has to date supported three professional organizations, three state oversight
institution and 32 civil society organizations to carry out sub-projects that enhance ethics,
accountability and transparency. Even though it has been disbursing well, it has been facing
implementation challenges, which have necessitated adjustments, to ensure this component
contributes to the PDO. The component has been disbursing grants to a large number of small
and fragmented activities, often broadly related to good governance, but not well targeted to
achieve the PDO. In the ATIP MTR, it was recognized that this component needs to improve
targeting of grants to organizations that complement the achievement of intermediate
outcomes under component 1 and 2. It was recommended that the grant operational manual be
revised accordingly to reflect the changed focus.

Component 4: Project coordination ­ US$0.6 million (IDA US$0.4 million)

15.      Project coordination arrangements of the ATIP were designed to use Government's
institutional arrangements under the GGCU without establishing a Project Implementation
Units, in line with the Paris declaration on aid effectiveness. This has been a challenge to
civil servants often not fully designated to work full time on the project, without adequate job
descriptions related to the project at hand and with weak leadership to guide them on
implementation. As a result, competing priorities often take more attention away from project
activities. For most of the legal sector institutions in particular, unfamiliarity with donor
programs affected significantly the pace of implementation. Planning and budgeting for
project activities has encountered unnecessarily extended delays, leaving little time for
implementation. The project components have also been implemented as discrete activities,
with little linkages or coordination to achieve the overall PDO. The capacity to use technical
advisors is also weak and this has not made implementation easier.



                                               4
Procurement

16.     Implementation of procurement activities in the project is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. This is largely due to the low staff capacity to prepare procurement plans,
processing procurement packages, managing procurement data and procurement activities.
This has been weakest under the LSRP, which also has the largest procurement activities.
The LSRP has recently been strengthened by recruitment of a procurement expert who will
provide technical advice in this area. In addition, two contract managers are being recruited to
manage the construction program for the law school and primary courts. PFMRP which has
recently started disbursing has adequate capacity in procurement. Under the third component,
most of the procurement activities are for small value contracts.

Financial management

17.     The financial management performance of the project and implementing institutions
has been moderately satisfactory. Audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time with
clean opinion; Interim Financial Reports were also submitted on a quarterly basis, reviewed
by the Financial Management specialist and found to be satisfactory. Project accountants
under components 1 and 3 have demonstrated weakness in performance largely contributed
by the inadequate prior experience in financial reporting and disbursement procedures for
IDA funded projects. Component 2 has a competent accountant who has worked in IDA
projects before and provides adequate support to the implementing institution. Shortfalls in
capacity in these components have been addressed through training on disbursement
procedures.


PROPOSED CHANGES
18. The proposed changes are under component 1 ­ strengthening legal and judicial system.
    Components 2, 3 and 4 have not changed and remain the same as reflected in the
    Financing Agreement signed in 2006. These changes seek to (a) drop activities that show
    no progress and are unlikely to be implemented in the remaining period of the project;
    and (b) introduce new activities that have been considered critical to improving access to
    justice, but were not taken up in the initial design. The proposed changes will not affect
    the PDO but have resulted in changes in PDO indicators that are described below. These
    changes have been appraised in a restructuring mission in May 2010 and the proposed
    reallocation agreed with Government counterparts. Completion of the restructured
    project would require an extension of the credit closing date. However, this will be
    considered once the project implementation picks up sufficiently to be rated satisfactory.
    These changes will not require changes in the implementation arrangements or the
    disbursement arrangements, which continue to be as agreed in the original financing
    agreement. The proposed changes will not affect the safeguards rating and the Integrated
    Safeguards Data Sheet as presented at appraisal.

Results/Indicators


                                               5
19. The proposed changes will affect the RMF and have thus necessitated a revision of the
    results indicators, which is reflected in Annex 1. In doing so, reference has been made to
    the country indicators included in the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of
    Poverty and the World Bank results chains for the legal and judicial reform as well as
    public financial management. New indicators have also been added to the RMF to
    ensure conformity with the Government indicators for the PFMRP in line with the PEFA
    indicators. Some of these indicators are new and the respective data on baselines needs
    to be collected and the targets agreed. The cost of collecting the baselines has been
    budgeted in the proposed workplan for 2010/11 and will be carried out within the next
    six months.

20. The revised project is expected to have an improved impact in: (a) reducing the case
    backlog in Tanzania, expanding access to justice especially in the rural areas, and
    enhancing the systems for managing cases in the judiciary; (b) strengthening PFM results
    in cash management, audit and procurement to enhance accountability; and (c)
    strengthening the capacity of non-state actors in engaging in ethics, accountability and
    transparency in Tanzania.

Component 1 ­ Strengthening the legal and judicial system US$54.2 million

21. This component originally had six sub-components, three of which will be dropped,
    namely sub-component 1 on establishment of a harmonized national legal framework,
    sub-component 3 on support to human rights and administrative justice and sub-
    component 5 on improved service delivery capacity in key legal and judicial institutions.
    A new sub-component 1 has been introduced. The sub-components that have changed
    are described below.

Sub-component 1: Increased efficiency in the administration of justice

22. Carrying out of Subprograms to support the implementation of the recipient's LSRP in
    the following areas: (i) increased efficiency in the administration of justice, and (ii)
    provision of technical assistance and training for purposes of improving case and records
    management.

Sub-component 2: Enhanced equal access to justice

23. All other activities under this sub-component have been deleted with the exception of the
    following two activities below:

                                   a) (i) Design and implementation of a program to
                                      promote and monitor the expansion of the national
                                      legal aid network, including the establishment of a
                                      legal aid literacy fund and legal aid groups and
                                      centers at ward, district and regional levels; (ii)
                                      preparation and dissemination of legal aid guidelines
                                      and procedures and a code of conduct for legal aid


                                             6
                                        institutions; (iii) development of legal aid training
                                        materials and provision of training to paralegals at
                                        ward, district and regional levels; and (iv) carrying
                                        out of legal aid information, education and
                                        communication activities.

                                    b) Construction,      rehabilitation, equipment   and
                                       community maintenance of selected priority primary
                                       courts facilities.

Sub-component 3: Improved knowledge and skills of legal professionals

24. The only activities to be supported under this sub-component are: (i) establishment and
    building of the capacity of the permanent secretariat of the Council of Legal Education to
    monitor the quality of national legal education and training; and (ii) construction,
    establishment and operationalization of a new national law school for practical training
    and apprenticeship of law graduates leading to bar examinations. All the other activities
    have been deleted.


Financing

25.     The original disbursement category and amounts are shown in Table 1. Under
component 1, the Government in agreement with IDA decided to use its own funds to finance
the court of appeal, which was part of the judicial infrastructure under the ATIP, leading to a
saving of US$ 6 million. This amount is retained under category 2, subject to discussions with
Government on its utilization with clear justification on the links to improved access to
justice. Should there be no clear justification for utilization of this amount by end of
November 2010, it will be cancelled from the credit.

26. It is proposed that an amount of US$300,000 be reallocated from the Facility for Ethics,
    Accountability and Transparency (FEAT) grants category 4 to category 1 to finance the
    operational costs of the Ethics Secretariat in managing the FEAT. Category 1 was
    supposed to finance incremental costs of the Ethics Secretariat which is the host of the
    FEAT and also to strengthen its capacity to perform its role with respect to ethics in the
    public service. Based on implementation progress, this budget was underestimated and
    has been exhausted. It is estimated that another US$300,000 will be required to cover
    incremental costs of the Ethics Secretariat for the remaining period to ensure that the
    FEAT is able to achieve its objective. The main items that will be funded will include
    consultancy fees for two staff to run the FEAT, administrative expenses for monitoring
    and evaluation, the costs of the steering committee, minimal capacity building, and audit
    fees. For this reason in Table 1, category 1 has been increased and category 4 has been
    reduced to reflect the reallocation.


       Table 1: Original and proposed reallocation (in SDR)



                                              7
Category of Expenditure                     Allocation     Disbursed     Reallocation
1) Works, goods, consultants' services
including audits, Training and Operating
Costs under Components 3.2 and 4 of the
Project                                        980,000.0     417,721.4      1,182,854.0
2) LSRP Subprograms                         16,380,000.0   4,457,094.0     16,380,000.0
3) PFMRP Subprograms                         6,630,000.0   3,238,782.5      6,630,000.0
4) FEAT Grants B                             2,790,000.0   1,120,851.4      2,587,146.0
5) Refund of Project Preparation Facility    1,120,000.0     735,854.4      1,120,000.0
Total                                       27,900,000.0   9,970,303.7     27,900,000.0




                                            8
ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring
TANZANIA: ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY PROGRAM
Project Development Objective (PDO):
To contribute to improved access to judicial and legal services and in the accountable and transparent use of public financial resources.
This will be achieved by improving the skills and systems to deliver judicial/legal services and public financial management, and
strengthening the capacity of Oversight and Watchdog Institutions to perform their role.
                                         D=Dropped
                                                                          Cumulative Target Values**
                                         C=Continue   Unit    of Baseline                                                               Data Source/      Responsibility for
PDO Level Results Indicators*                                             YR 1 ­ YR 2 - YR 3            - YR4     ­ Frequency
                                  Core




                                         N= New       Measure    2009                                                                   Methodology       Data Collection
                                         R=Revised                        2010       2011       2012      2013
1.Percentage of cases pending            R            %          27.9%    26%        24%        22%       20%       Annually            Administrative    Registrar Court of
for two years or more in the                                                                                                              records              Appeal
Judiciary
2. Percentage of MDAs with               R            %          86%                                                Annual               Annual audit       Controller and
clean audit in NAO report                                                                                                                  reports         Auditor General
presented to Parliament1
3. Number of participating OWIs          D            Number   of 0                                                 Quarterly     and     Routine         Good Governance
that use evidence based reports                       OWIs                                                          annually            administrative    Coordination Unit
in dialogue and oversight role                                                                                                              data
4. Number of participating OWIs          D            Number   of 0                                                 Annually              Routine              Ethics
that use evidence based reports                       OWIs                                                                              administrative      Commissioner
in dialogue and oversight role                                                                                                              data
INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): Component 1 Strengthening legal and judicial system
 1.1 Average number of working   R          Days
days between the filing and
disposition of cases in the high
court2
1.2 The number of new Law        R          Graduates    38        300          600            862        1800      Annually             Administrative   Principal Law School
School graduates.                                                                                                                          Records




1
    Following revision of this target during restructuring, discussions are continuing with government to agree on the target for subsequent years by December 2010.
2
    This indicator has been revised and a study will be carried out to establish baseline and target by December 2010 and the RMF will be revised accordingly.


                                                                                    9
1.3 The number of beneficiaries N            Citizens      1,500     2,200          2,800      3,200      4,000     Quarterly          Progress reports Program Coordination
of legal aid services                                                                                                                                          Office
     a) o/w are women (%)
     b) o/w are juvenile(%)
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Enhancing public financial accountability3

2.1 Percentage in the deviation of     R         %            13.1      12.9        11.9       -          -         Annually           Annual Review       Commissioner of
actual expenditure from approved                                                                                                          Report              Budget
budget
2.2 Percentage reduction in the        N         %                                                                  Annually            CAG Annual           ACGEN-IA
number of queries in the external                                                                                                       Audit Report
audit reports for MDAs and LGAs2

2.3 The number of days it takes for    N         Days         15        7           7          -          -         Monthly              Exchequer       Assistant Accountant
funds to reach MDAs and LGAs                                                                                                           Release Report    General - Expenditure
after the receipt of complete
application for funds
2.4     Percentage    of     public    N         %            60        65          80         -          -         Annually            PPRA Report      Public Procurement
procurement      completed    using                                                                                                                      Regulatory Authority
competitive bidding processes
2.5 Graduation of NAO in the           N         Level        2         3           -          -          -         Annually                             Director of Planning -
AFROSAI grade levels                                                                                                                                             NAO

Intermediate Result (Component Three): Strengthening oversight and watchdog institutions
3.1 Number of participating OWIs,   R          Number       of 0        5           10         26         43        Quarterly             Quarterly     Ethics Commissioner
NGOs and CSOs producing and                    OWIs, NGOs                                                                              Progress Reports
disseminating       evidence-based             and CSOs
reports on the performance of
government in component 1 and 2
3.2      Number of participating    R          Number       of 0        2           5          8          12        Quarterly             Quarterly      Ethics Commissioner
Professional Associations enforcing            Associations                                                                            Progress Report
ethical standards amongst
 their members
Intermediate Result (Component Four): Project coordination
4.1 Percentage of program activities    N        %                                                                  Quarterly          Progress Report    ATIP Coordinator
completed against approved annual

2
    This indicator is new and a study will be carried out to establish baseline and target by December 2010 and the RMF will be revised accordingly.
3
    Component 2 indicators are for 2010 and 2011, as the PFMRP comes to an end in June 2011.




                                                                                    10
work plans2




              11
12
