Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4171 - TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4171 - TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2006, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 27,900,000) (
referred to variously as “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Credit Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.  
ARTICLE V—TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI
—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
 Tanzania 
 Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 TREASURY 
    (255) 
222 
11 
77 
90 
 
Dar es Salaam 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Judy O'Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving access to  
legal and judicial services and the accountable and transparent use of public financial 
resources, through improvement of the skills and means to deliver legal and 
 
judicial services and public financial management, and strengthening of the capacity of 
oversight and watchdog institutions to perform their role.  
The Project consists of the following components: 
Component 1
Strengthening of the Legal and Judicial System
Carrying out of Subprograms to support the implementation of the Recipient
’s 
Legal Sector Reform Program in the following areas: 
1. 
Harmonization of the national legal framework
(a) 
Consultative identification, review, and amendment of priority laws and 
regulations with a view to modernizing and harmonizing the legal and regulatory 
framework affecting business activities and access to justice. 
(b)  
Strengthening the capacity of the Law Reform Commission of Tanzania 
to conduct legal research, legislative drafting and management of legal reforms, including 
to: (i) undertake technical studies related to its mandate; (ii) establish a continuous  
and sustainable mechanism for reviewing national legislation through participatory 
processes; (iii) develop cost effective legislative drafting mechanisms and procedures for 
ensuring the quality, relevance and impact of legislation; and (iv) develop mechanisms 
for collaboration with legal education and training institutions. 
2. 
Enhancement of access to justice for the poor and the disadvantaged
(a) 
(i) Streamlining of the case management systems of primary and  
district courts, including the establishment and strengthening of case flow 
 
committees; (ii) development of special guidelines and procedures for handling cases 
involving indigents and other disadvantaged groups; and (iii) training of judges and 
clerks on efficient case flow management and speedy dispensation of justice. 
 
(b) 
(i) Design and implementation of a program to promote and monitor  
the expansion of the national legal aid network, including the establishment of a  
legal aid literacy fund and legal aid groups and centers at ward, district and regional  
levels; (ii) translation into Kiswahili and Braille and printing and dissemination of basic 
laws, regulations and other legal information; (iii) preparation and dissemination  
of legal aid guidelines and procedures and a code of conduct for legal aid 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
institutions; (iv) development of legal aid training materials and provision of training to 
paralegals at ward, district and regional levels; and (v) carrying out of legal aid 
information, education and communication activities.   
 
(c) 
(i) Design and implementation of a program of assistance and 
 
training to ward tribunals with a view to enhancing their efficiency in administering 
justice; and (ii)  construction, rehabilitation, equipment and community maintenance of 
selected priority primary courts facilities. 
3. 
Improvement of governance and administrative justice
(a) 
(i) Streamlining, translation into Swahili and Braille, promotion and 
dissemination of service delivery procedures and client service charters for legal  
and judicial institutions; and (ii) development and dissemination of guidelines and 
procedures for lodging complaints against misuse of power and un-ethical conduct by 
legal and judicial institutions personnel, including a computerized complaints 
management system. 
 
(b) 
Implementation of a program of capacity development for administrative 
tribunals for provision of efficient administrative justice, including the preparation of a 
harmonized set of procedures and guidelines for administrative tribunals operations, 
assessment of the needs and feasibility of establishing an administrative appellate body,  
and establishment of a monitoring mechanism for the performance of the administrative 
justice system.  
4. 
Improvement of knowledge and skills of legal professionals
(a) 
(i) Establishment and building of the capacity of the permanent 
secretariat of the Council of Legal Education to monitor the quality of national legal 
education and training; (ii) preparation, publication and dissemination of a national legal 
(degree and non-degree) education curriculum, including establishment and 
institutionalization of a mechanism for continuous curriculum updating; (iii) preparation 
and implementation of action plans for selected legal education and training institutions 
to improve the quality and relevance of legal education, including modernization of 
curricula and syllabi; and (iv) design and implementation of specialized legal training 
programs for academic staff.     
 
(b) 
Construction, establishment and operationalization of a new national law 
school for practical training and apprenticeship of law graduates leading to bar 
examinations. 
(c) 
Carrying out of a continuing training needs assessment and strengthening 
the capacity of selected legal training institutions to offer continuous legal education 
courses for legal and judicial practitioners. 
Page  8
-
7
-
5. 
Strengthening of service delivery capacity in key legal and judicial institutions
(a) 
(i) Establishment of an integrated management information system to 
enable the effective coordination and communication among key legal and judicial 
institutions; and (ii) implementation of measures for strengthening the administrative 
support, revenue retention, division of work, supervision and other organizational 
systems within the said institutions for effective service delivery.
 
(b) 
 
 
Institutionalization of a merit-based personnel management and 
performance incentive system for key legal and judicial institutions, including improved 
remuneration
 packages in accordance with the Recipient’s public service reform 
program,  and training of legal and judicial personnel in specialized skills. 
(c) 
(i) Preparation and implementation of an action plan for modernizing and 
equipping selected law libraries; (ii) implementation of a mechanism for continuous 
updating of law reports, case digests and amended laws; and (iii) construction, 
rehabilitation and equipment of selected priority judiciary infrastructure and registries, 
other than primary courts under Component 1.2 (c) above. 
6. 
Coordination, Monitoring, Evaluation and Communication
Strengthening the capacity of the LSRP implementing entities to implement 
LSRP Subprogram activities in an efficient and effective manner, including to conduct 
improved policy research and evidence-based policy-making, strengthen change 
management skills to champion the reform program, develop strategic and annual work 
plans and budgets, design and implement mechanisms for effective coordination, 
monitoring and evaluation of LSRP Subprogram activities, and carry out public 
information, education and communication activities related to the LSRP.   
Component 2
Enhancement of Public Financial Accountability
Carrying out of Subprograms to support the implementation of the Recipient’s 
Public Financial Management Reform Program in the following areas: 
1. 
Improvement of macroeconomic and fiscal management capacity
Strengthening the capacity of MOF for sound macroeconomic, fiscal and debt 
management through the development and implementation of strategies and models, tools 
and technologies for improved macroeconomic and fiscal forecasting, analysis, 
stakeholder consultation, policy-making, execution, monitoring and reporting.  
2. 
Devolution of decision-making and accountability for resources
Strengthening the capacity of MDAs, LGAs and other budgetary entities for 
sound public financial management, including the expansion and enhanced application of 
the government’s integrated financial management system, deepening internal audit and 
Page  9
-
8
-
accounting capabilities, support for fiscal decentralisation through monitoring of the 
system of intergovernmental transfers, review of staffing levels, skills, responsibilities 
and other resource requirements and development and carrying out of training programs,  
and development and implementation of mechanisms for enhanced financial management 
and accountability awareness and understanding.  
3. 
Improvement of the predictability of resource flows to MDAs and LGAs
Support for developing and implementing improved resource planning and 
prioritization integrated with the Recipient’s medium-term expenditure framework,  
and budget preparation and execution and monitoring mechanisms and regulations for 
predictable resource flows to MDAs and LGAs.   
4. 
Enhancement of value for money in the use of public resources
Strengthening of public procurement capacity and practice in accordance with the 
Recipient’s new public procurement law with a view to ensuring improved value for 
public resources, including development and implementation of a public procurement 
anti-corruption strategy and a public procurement capacity building strategy, 
operationalization of the public procurement regulatory agency and the public 
procurement appeals authority, transformation of MDAs supplies units into procurement 
management units, development of procurement guidelines, user manuals and revised 
standard bidding documents, establishment of a procurement professional body and 
expansion and training of procurement cadre, and establishment of a system for public 
procurement monitoring at MDAs and LGAs. 
5. 
Reduction of dependency on external financing
Strengthening of the Recipient’s external resource management and 
accountability capacity with a view to increasing the proportion of external finance 
recorded in the government budget and exchequer system, including development and 
maintenance of a robust external aid flow database, building of the performance capacity 
of staff in the MOF external financing department, rationalization of the tax exemptions 
regime with a view to broadening the domestic tax base and enhancing mobilization of 
domestic resources, and enhancement of awareness of the PFMRP  objectives and 
activities among MDAs, LGAs and civil society.
 
6. 
Capacity for sustained improvements in management and program 
implementation
Support to the PFMRP implementing entities for the effective implementation of 
PFMRP Subprogram activities, including capacity development for enhanced policy and 
strategic leadership and coordination, carrying out of needs based human resource 
capacity building interventions, implementation of measures to promote a culture of 
ethics, integrity and accountability in accordance with the government’s anti-corruption 
Page  10
-
9
-
strategy and ethical conduct policy, expansion and effectively utilization of management 
information and network systems, adoption of a robust program monitoring and 
evaluation framework, and carrying out of public information, communication 
 
and education activities related to the PFMRP.  
Component 3
Strengthening Oversight and Watchdog Institutions
1. 
Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency
Provision of grants to eligible oversight and watchdog institutions for eligible 
demand-driven activities that are designed to improve public and private sector 
accountability, including interventions aimed at: (i) generating and disseminating quality 
information on public sector performance, 
particularly with respect to the Recipient’s 
crosscutting Public Sector Reform Program, the LSRP, the PFMRP and the National 
Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan; (ii) improving the ethical environment in both 
public and private sectors, by supporting improvements in the capacity of professional 
organizations to raise the ethical standards and conduct of their members using  
self-regulatory ethics mechanisms, continuing education programs and, more broadly, 
information, education and communication programs aimed at the broader public; and 
(iii) generally improving the capacity of oversight and watchdog institutions’ staff in 
undertaking their functions. 
2. 
Ethics Secretariat Capacity Building
Strengthening of the capacity of the Ethics Secretariat to: (i) publicize and 
administer the Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency; and (ii) implement 
an action plan for promoting ethical behavior within the public service, enhancing 
transparency and accountability of the public sector, and raising awareness of the 
importance of ethical behavior within the general population. 
Component 4
.
Project coordination, monitoring, evaluation and communication
Strengthening the capacity of GGCU to: (i) coordinate the implementation and 
oversee the monitoring, evaluation, reporting and dissemination of information on overall 
Project activities; and (ii) perform its core functions for overall coordination, monitoring 
and dissemination of public information on the progress in the implementation of the 
Recipient’s National Anti-Corruption Action Plan and good governance programs, 
including the carrying out of a review of the government institutional structure to combat 
corruption with a view to delineating clear mandates and developing mechanisms for 
greater collaboration among concerned institutions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
Good Governance Coordination Unit.
 
The Recipient shall ensure that GGCU 
is maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project with staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of ensuring the 
prompt and efficient overall coordination, monitoring, reporting, evaluation and 
communication of Project activities, including the implementation of GGCU
’s 
own activities under Component 4 of the Project. 
2. 
Steering Committees
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the 
Recipient shall maintain, at all times until the completion of the Project, 
an LSRP Steering Committee for Component 1 of the Project and  
a
FEAT Steering Committee for Component 3.1 of the Project, both  
with a composition, mandate and resources satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the LSRP 
Steering Committee shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) reviewing and 
endorsing for joint approval by the Recipient, the Association and the 
Co-financiers of the LSRP Annual Work Plans and Budgets, and 
ensuring their consistency with the LSRP; (ii) reviewing progress made 
towards achieving the Project’s objectives; (iii) facilitating the 
coordination of Project activities among the entities represented 
 
in the LSRP Steering Committee, and making recommendations 
 
for removal of any obstacles to the implementation of the Project; and 
(iv) providing comments on reports and reviews prepared by the 
Implementing Agencies for the benefit of the Association. 
(c) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the FEAT 
Steering Committee shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) reviewing, on 
the basis of the appraisal of the Ethics Secretariat, and approving FEAT 
Subprojects which do not require the prior no-objection of the 
Association as specified in the ES Operations Manual, or recommending 
for the Association’s no-objection FEAT Subprojects for which the 
Association’s prior no-objection is required as specified in the ES 
Operations Manual; (ii) reviewing progress made towards achieving the 
Page  12
-
11
-
Project’s objectives, and making recommendations for removal of any 
obstacles to the implementation of the Project; and (iii) providing 
comments on reports and reviews prepared by the Ethics Secretariat for 
the benefit of the Association. 
3. 
Implementing Agencies
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Parts A.1 and A.2 of this 
Section, the Recipient shall ensure that MJCA, MOF and the Ethics 
Secretariat are maintained at all times during the implementation of  
the Project with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association, for the purpose of ensuring the prompt and efficient 
implementation of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph: (i) MJCA shall 
be responsible for the overall planning, coordination, financial 
management, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and 
communication of LSRP Subprogram activities carried out under 
Component 1 of the Project by MJCA, the judiciary and other LSRP 
implementing entities specified in the LSRP Memorandum of 
Understanding; (ii) MOF shall be responsible for the overall planning, 
coordination, financial management, procurement, monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting and communication of PFMRP Subprogram 
activities carried out under Component 2 of the Project by MOF and 
other PFMRP implementing entities specified in the PFMRP 
Memorandum of Understanding; and (iii) the Ethics Secretariat shall be 
responsible for publicizing of FEAT and for dissemination, appraisal, 
administration, fiduciary supervision, monitoring, reporting and 
evaluation of FEAT Subprojects carried out by Beneficiaries under 
Component 3.1 of the Project, as well as for the day-to-day 
implementation of activities under Component 3.2 of the Project and the 
financial management and procurement of activities under Component 4 
of the Project. 
B. Implementation 
Arrangements
1. 
Operations Manuals
:
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the arrangements and procedures set out in the Operations Manuals 
(provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and 
procedures set out in the Operations Manuals and the provisions of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of any of the Operations Manuals, if such amendment, abrogation or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
Environmental and social safeguards
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures 
defined in the Environmental and Social Management Framework and 
the Resettlement Policy Framework and, wherever applicable, prepare 
and implement Resettlement Action Plans in accordance with the RPF and 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association, defining a program  
of actions, measures and policies for compensation and resettlement of 
Affected Persons, including the magnitude of displacement, proposed 
compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, 
and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring 
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation  
of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the RAPs. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be waived, the 
ESMF, RPF and RAPs, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in 
the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (i) all measures for carrying out the 
recommendations of the ESMF, RPF and RAPs are taken in a timely 
manner; and (ii) the Project Reports referred to in Part A of Section II of 
this Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring the 
measures defined in the ESMF, RPF and RAPs. 
3. 
Memoranda of Understanding
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement the Subprograms in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Memoranda of 
Understanding; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between 
the provisions of said memorandum and of this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Memoranda of 
Understanding, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
4. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets; Subprograms 
(a) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to Association for its joint 
approval with the Co-financiers, not later than March 31 of each year 
during the implementation of the Project, or such later date as the 
Page  14
-
13
-
Association may agree in consultation with the Co-financiers, the Annual 
Work Plans and Budgets containing all proposed Subprograms to be 
carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, taking into account 
the Association’s 
comments and views on the matter. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause each Subprogram implementing entity to 
implement, monitor and evaluate its respective Subprogram in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement and in more 
detail in the LSRP Operations Manual and the PFMRP Operations 
Manual, and shall not make or allow to be made any material change to 
any Subprogram included in the approved Annual Work Plans and 
Budgets without consultation and approval of the Association. 
5. 
FEAT Grants
 
(a) 
General 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Section, the 
Recipient shall appraise, approve and monitor FEAT Subprojects  
and administer the FEAT Grants in accordance with the provisions and 
procedures set forth or referred to in this paragraph 5 and in more detail 
in the ES Operations Manual. 
(b) 
Eligibility Criteria for FEAT Subprojects 
No proposed FEAT Subproject shall be eligible for financing under a 
FEAT Grant out of the proceeds of the Financing unless the Recipient, 
through the Ethics Secretariat, has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with this sub-paragraph and the 
guidelines set forth in the ES Operations Manual, that the proposed 
FEAT Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and set 
forth or referred to in more detail in the ES Operations Manual, which 
shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following:  
(i) 
The proposed FEAT Subproject activities shall fall within the 
areas described under Component 3.1 of the Project in Schedule 
1
to this Agreement, and shall exclude any activities and 
expenditures specified as ineligible in the ES Operations 
Manual; 
(ii) 
the proposed FEAT Subproject shall be initiated by a 
Beneficiary which has been registered as a legal entity and has 
the capacity to enter into a binding contract under the laws of the 
Page  15
-
14
-
Recipient, and which has met the other eligibility criteria 
specified or referred to in the ES Operations Manual; 
(iii) 
the Beneficiary has adequate technical, financial management 
and procurement capacity to implement the proposed FEAT 
Subproject in compliance with the guidelines set forth in the ES 
Operations Manual; and 
(iv) 
the Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive subsequent FEAT 
Grants if it has completed the preceding FEAT Subproject to  
the satisfaction of the Ethics Secretariat, in accordance with the 
terms of the FEAT Grant Agreement. 
(c) 
Approval of FEAT Grants
 
Based on the appraisal and recommendation of the Ethics Secretariat  
in accordance with the sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the FEAT 
Steering Committee shall: (i) approve FEAT Subprojects whose cost 
falls below the threshold specified in the ES Operations Manual for  
prior no-objection by the Association or which do not otherwise  
require such no-objection as specified in the ES Operations Manual; and 
(ii) recommend 
for the Association’s prior no-objection FEAT 
 
Sub-projects whose cost exceeds the threshold for approval by the  
FEAT Steering Committee or which otherwise require such no-objection 
as specified in the ES Operations Manual. 
(d) 
Terms and Conditions of FEAT Grants 
 
A
FEAT Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a FEAT Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between the Ethics Secretariat, on behalf of 
the Recipient, and the respective Beneficiary, under terms and conditions 
described or referred to in more detail in the ES Operations Manual and 
satisfactory to the Association, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the 
following:  
(i) 
the description of the activities to be implemented, including  
the outputs and performance targets to be achieved, 
 
and the arrangements for monitoring and reporting on the 
implementation of the FEAT Subproject; 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to contribute, in cash and/or  
in-kind, a minimum percentage of the projected FEAT Sub-project 
cost as specified in the ES Operations Manual; 
(iii) 
the modalities of transfer of funds by the Ethics Secretariat to the 
Page  16
-
15
-
Beneficiary for the financing of the FEAT Subproject; 
(iv) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the FEAT 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, engineering, environmental, financial, and 
managerial practices; and (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures relating to the FEAT Subproject; 
(v) 
the requirement that the goods, works and consultants’ services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the FEAT Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the FEAT Subproject; and 
(vi) 
the right of the Ethics Secretariat, on behalf of the Recipient,  
to: (i) inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the FEAT Subproject, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents; (ii) obtain all 
information as it, or the Association, shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions 
of FEAT Subprojects; and (iii) suspend or terminate the right of 
any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the FEAT Grant upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the FEAT Grant Agreement. 
(e) 
Administration of FEAT Grant Agreements
 
The Ethics Secretariat shall exercise its rights under the FEAT Grant 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any FEAT Grant Agreement or any 
substantial provision thereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in paragraph 2.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished 
Page  17
-
16
-
to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the 
following:   
(a) 
Average time taken to resolve court cases; 
(b) 
Increased number of qualified magistrates in primary courts; 
(c) 
Increased number of qualified law graduates employed in the judiciary 
and MJCA; 
(d) 
Expenditure outturn as percentage of approved budget; 
(e) 
Percentage of procurement units established and operational in MDAs 
and LGAs; 
(f) 
Percentage of National Audit Office staff able to undertake value for 
money audits; 
(g) 
Number of evidence based and quality reports by participating oversight 
and watchdog institutions on government performance in key reform 
programs; and 
(h) 
Percentage of participating professional associations actively regulating 
ethical standards and practice of members. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with  
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
for goods and works under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan 
for each such method: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Direct Contracting; 
(c) Shopping; and (d) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have 
been found acceptable to the Association. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for consultants’ services under the circumstances specified in the 
Procurement Plan for each such method: (a) Quality Based Selection; 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based 
on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection; (f) Established 
Private or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the 
Association; (g) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Page  19
-
18
-
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (h) Sole Source 
Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1)  Works, goods, 
consultants’ services 
including audits, Training 
and Operating Costs under 
Components 3.2 and 4 of 
the Project 
 
980,000 100% 
(2) LSRP Subprograms 
 
 16,380,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the 
Association shall determine 
for each Fiscal Year 
(3) PFMRP Subprograms 
 
   6,630,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the 
Association shall determine 
for each Fiscal Year 
(4) FEAT Grants 
 
  2,790,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(5)  Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 1,120,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 _________ 
 27,900,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1), unless: (i) the Recipient has 
adopted the ES Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and (ii) the ES has been staffed with personnel in 
numbers and with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; 
Page  21
-
20
-
(c) 
LSRP Subprograms under Category (2), unless: (i) the LSRP 
Memorandum of Understanding has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Association and has entered into effect in accordance 
with its terms; (ii) MJCA has been staffed with personnel in numbers and 
with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; 
and (iii) the LSRP Annual Work Plan and Budget for the respective 
Fiscal Year has been approved by the Association in accordance with 
Part B.4 of Section I of this Schedule; 
(d) 
PFMRP Subprograms under Category (3), unless: (i) the PFMRP 
Memorandum of Understanding has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Association and has entered into effect in accordance 
with its terms; and (ii) the PFMRP Annual Work Plan and Budget for the 
respective Fiscal Year has been approved by the Association in 
accordance with Part B.4 of Section I of this Schedule; and 
(e) 
any FEAT Grant under Category (4)
 which requires the Association’s  
no-objection pursuant to Part B.5 (c) of Section I of this Section, unless 
the Association has given its no-objection to such FEAT Grant. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 1, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Appointment of Financial and Procurement Auditors 
1.
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, appoint 
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule. 
2.
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in 
place arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of 
independent procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services financed under the Project, including 
the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
B.
 
Procurement Audits
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association an 
audit report on the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services carried 
out under the Project, prepared by the independent procurement auditors referred 
to in Part A.2 of this Section.   
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 1 and July 1: 
 
commencing July 1, 2016 to and including 
January 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing July 1, 2026 to and including 
January 1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  23
-
22
-
APPENDIX 
1.  
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of  
the Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected;  
(ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plans and Budgets” means the LSRP Annual Work Plan and 
Budget and the PFMRP Annual Work Plan and Budget (as hereinafter defined). 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means a governmental or non-governmental organization, 
established and operating under the laws of the Recipient, which has met the 
eligibility criteria specified in the ES Operations Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
and, as a result, has been extended, or is to be extended, a FEAT Grant  
(as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a FEAT Subproject 
 
(as hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Co-financiers” means each and any co-financier (other than the Recipient) that 
has extended or is to extend the Co-financing (as hereinafter defined) to the 
Recipient pursuant to the Co-financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and 
that has signed the LSRP Memorandum of Understanding or the PFMRP 
Memorandum of Understanding, as the case may be. 
6. 
“Co-financing” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and (iii) and 
Section 6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any credit or grant extended 
or to be extended to the Recipient by the Co-financiers for the purpose  
of assisting in the joint co-financing of Subprograms under Components 1 or 2 of 
the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Co-financing Agreement and 
the LSRP Memorandum of Understanding or the PFMRP Memorandum of 
Understanding, as the case may be. 
7. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and 
(iii) and Section 6.06 (c)  of the General Conditions, each and any agreement 
entered or to be entered into between the Recipient and the Co-financiers 
providing for the Co-financing. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
9. 
 “Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
document of the Recipient dated October 2005, as the said document may be 
amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of 
the Association, setting forth the modalities for environmental screening and 
procedures for the preparation and implementation of environmental assessments 
and management plans under the Project pursuant to Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
10. 
“ES Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual for the Ethics 
 
Secretariat, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, containing or 
referring to detailed arrangements and procedures for the implementation of 
Components 3 and 4 of the Project, including: (i) institutional coordination  
and day-to-day execution of activities under Components 3 and 4 of the  
Project; (ii) capacity building activities for sustained achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; (iii) disbursement and financial management; (iv) procurement;  
(v) a FEAT Grants manual defining eligibility criteria and approval, 
disbursement, administration and monitoring and evaluation arrangements  
for FEAT Subprojects together with sample grant agreement formats; 
 
(vi) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, information, education and 
communication; and (vii) such other administrative, financial, technical and 
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for Components 
3
and 4 of the Project. 
11. 
“Ethics Secretariat” means the Ethics Secretariat of the Recipient’s Office of the 
President established under the laws of the Recipient. 
12. 
“FEAT” means the Facility for Ethics, Accountability and Transparency to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing under Component 3.1 of the 
Project. 
13. 
“FEAT Grant” means funds allocated or proposed to be allocated out of the 
proceeds of the Financing to a public sector Beneficiary, or a grant made or 
proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the Financing to a non-governmental 
Beneficiary, for the purpose of financing a FEAT Subproject in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
14. 
“FEAT Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into, or to be entered 
into, between the Ethics Secretariat, on behalf of the Recipient, and a 
Beneficiary, for the purpose of extending a FEAT Grant to such Beneficiary on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Section I.B.5 (d) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Page  25
-
24
-
15. 
“FEAT Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee referred to in 
Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16. 
“FEAT Subproject” means a set of specific activities carried out or to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary under Component 3.1 of the Project and financed or 
proposed to be financed through FEAT Grant 
17. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending 
June 30 of each year. 
18. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
19. 
“GGCU” means the Good Governance Coordination Unit of the Recipient’s 
Office of the President established under the laws of the Recipient. 
20. 
“LGAs” means the Recipient’s local government authorities. 
21. 
“LSRP” means the Recipient’s Legal Sector Reform Program, set out in the 
Recipient’s Medium Term Strategy for Legal Sector Reform dated December 
2004 and to be supported by the Association under Component 1 of the Project.  
22. 
“LSRP Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the work plan and budget 
prepared annually by MJCA for Component 1 of the Project, in accordance with 
Section I.B.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
23. 
“LSRP Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum of 
understanding between the Recipient, the Association and the LSRP 
 
Co-financiers, as the same may be amended from time to time, providing for 
common arrangements and procedures on procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and exchange of 
information required for the implementation of Component 1 of the Project. 
24. 
“LSRP Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, in form 
 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, containing or referring to  
detailed arrangements and procedures for Component 1 of the Project, including: 
(i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of LSRP Subprogram 
activities; (ii) capacity building activities for sustained achievement of 
 
the Project’s objectives; (iii) disbursement and financial management; 
 
(iv) procurement; (v) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and public information, 
education and communication; and (vi) such other administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for 
Component 1 of the Project. 
25. 
“LSRP Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee referred to in 
Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  26
-
25
-
26. 
“LSRP Subprogram” means a program of activities under Component 1 of the 
Project and included in the LSRP Annual Work Program and Budget. 
27. 
“MDAs” means the Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies. 
28. 
“Memoranda of Understanding” means the LSRP Memorandum of 
Understanding and the PFMRP Memorandum of Understanding. 
29. 
“MJCA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. 
30. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
31. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred on account of 
the implementation of the Project including maintenance of vehicles, fuel, 
equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, bank charges, advertising 
expenses, travel per diems, allowances and accommodation, but excluding 
salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants.  
32. 
“Operations Manuals” means, collectively, the ES Operations Manual, the LSRP 
Operations Manual and the PFMRP Operations Manual. 
33. 
“PFMRP” means the Recipient’s Public Financial Management Reform Program, 
set out in the Recipient’s 2005 PFMRP Strategic Document and to be supported 
by the Association under Component 2 of the Project. 
34. 
“PFMRP Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the work plan and budget 
prepared annually by MOF for Component 2 of the Project, in accordance with 
Section I.B.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
35. 
“PFMRP Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum of 
understanding between the Recipient, the Association and the PFMRP 
 
Co-financiers, as the same may be amended from time to time, providing for 
common arrangements and procedures on procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and exchange of 
information required for the implementation of Component 2 of the Project. 
36. 
“PFMRP Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, in form 
 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, containing or referring to  
detailed arrangements and procedures for Component 2 of the Project, 
 
including: (i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of PFMRP 
Subprogram activities; (ii) capacity building activities for sustained achievement 
of the Project’s objectives; (iii) disbursement and financial management;  
(iv) procurement; (v) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and public information, 
education and communication; and (vi) such other administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for 
Component 1 of the Project. 
Page  27
-
26
-
37. 
“PFMRP Subprogram” means a program of activities under Component 2 of the 
Project and included in the PFMRP Annual Work Program and Budget. 
38. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
39. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 10, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
40. 
“Program” means the program set out in the letter from the Recipient to the 
Association dated March 11, 2006, describing a set of objectives, policies and 
actions designed to ensure enhanced accountability, transparency and integrity in 
the provision of legal and judicial services and the use of public financial 
resources, and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program. 
41. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreements signed on behalf of the Association on May 8, 2001 and 
February 19, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on, respectively, May 22, 2001 
and March 7, 2002. 
42. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan referred to in Section I.B.2 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “RAPs” means, collectively, each such 
RAP. 
43. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework of the Recipient dated October 2005, as the said framework may be 
amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence  
of the Association, setting forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation 
of Affected Persons under the Project and referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
44. 
“Subprograms” means the LSRP Subprograms and the PFMRP Subprograms; 
and “Subprogram” means any LSRP Subprogram or any PFMRP Subprogram, as 
the case may be. 
45. 
“Training” means costs associated with the training of personnel involved in 
Project supported activities including travel and subsistence costs for training 
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
costs directly related to course preparation and implementation.
Page  28
-
27
-
