Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C ? /5/- d2
Report No. 5428-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REFORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 16, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Diyision
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1      Taka 26.0
Taka 1 = US$0.038
Weights and Measures
Metric system
Abbreviations Used
BADC     -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB     -   Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB     -   Bangladesh Water Development Board
b.       -   When preceeding a crop means broadcast
DAE      -   Department of Agricultural Extension
ECNEC    -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA       -   Force Account
FCD III  -   Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
COB      -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
IPC      -   Imports Program Credit
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
*-IOI    -   Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
O&M      -   Operation and Maintenance
PEC      -   Project Evaluation Committee
PSA      -   Project Special Account
PP       -   Project Proforma
t.       -   When preceeding a crop means transplanted



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman       -   Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December
Aus        -   Rice planted during February or March and harvested during
June or July
Beel       -   Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water
Boro       -   Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested in
April to May
District   -   Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy Commissioner
comprising a number of Upazilas
Khal       -   Natural channel
Kharif     -   Summer season (May through October)
Monsoon    -   Period of rains starting in June and ending in October
Rabi       -   Winter season (October through May)
Upazila    -   Smallest administrative unit of the Local Government
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by redpients only in the performance ofi
their ofrc duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dissbsd without World Bank authorization. 



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND
Rationale for IDA Involvement                                  1
Project Background                                             2
Agricultural Sector Background                                 2
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy                                4
Lessons from the Past                                          5
II.   The Project
Project Concept                                                6
Project Objective                                            *6
Project Description                                            7
Project Works                                                 13
Implementation Schedule                                       15
III.  Project Costs, Financing, Procurement, Disbursement and Accounts
Project Costs                                                 16
Project Financing                                             17
Procurement                                                   18
Disbursement                                                  21
Accounts and Audits                                           21
Special Account                                               22
IV.   Project Management                                            22
V.    Production, Marketing and Prices, Farm Income and Cost Recovery
Production                                                    25
Marketing and Prices                                          26
Farm Income                                                   27
Cost Recovery                                                 28
VI.   Benefits and Justification
Production and Employment                                     29
Economic Analysis                                             29
Sensitivity Analysis                                          31
Project Risks                                                 31
Environmental Impact                                          32
VII.  Agreements and Recommendations                                33



-2-
Annexes
Annex 1  -  Criteria for Selection of Sub-Projects
Annex 2 - Guidelines for Studies and Investigations
Gumti Phase I:  Hydrological and Morphological Study
Madhumati/Nabaganga: Hydrological Study
Groundwater Study
Naogaon Polder I: Hydro-Morphological Study
Role of BWDB and Consultants in Hydro-Morphological Studies
RoLe of BWDB and Consultants in Groundwater Study
Aerial Photography
Agricultural and Fisheries DeveLopment Programs
Feasibility Study for Gumti Phase II Project
On-Farm Demonstration Units
Study of BWDB's Institutional Capability
Annex 3  -  Technical Assistance and Training
Annex 4  -  Implementation Schedules
Annex 5  -  Land Acquisition Procedures
Annex 6  -  Proposed Credit Allocation and Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7  -  Crop Acreage, Yield and Product,on
Annex 8  -  Economic Parameters and Analysis
Inflation and Exchange Rates
Economic Price of Paddy
Economic Price of Wheat
Economic Price of Jute
Economic Price of Oilseeds
Economic Price of Urea
Economic Price of MP
Economic Price of TSP
Economic Benefits and Costs - Gumti Sub-project
Economic Benefits and Costs - Naogaon Sub-project
Economic Benefits and Costs - Madhumati-Nabaganga Sub-project
Farm Budget - Gumti Sub-project
Farm Budget - Naogaon Sub-project
Farm Budget - Madhumati-Nabaganga Sub-project
Annex 9  -  Detailed Cost Tables
Cumti Phase I Sub-project - Tables 1,2 and 3
Naogaon Sub-project - Tabls 4,5 and 6
Madhumati-Nabaganga Sub-project - Tables 7,8 and 9
Summary Account by Year
Project Components by Year
Breakdown of Summary Accounts US$
Breakdown of Summary Accounts Tk
Summary Account by Project Component
Annex 10 - Polder Concept and Agricultural Development
Annex 11 -  Related Documents in Project File



-3-
Charts
Chart 1  -   Organization of the BWDB
Chart 2  -   Project Headquarters and Field Organizations
Maps
Map 1    -   IBRD 18549   -  Sub-projects Location Map
Map 2    -   [BRD 18558R  -  Gumti Phase I Sub-project
Map 3    -   IBRD 18559   -  Naogaon Sub-project
Map 4    -   IBRD 18560   -  Madhumati - Nabaganga Sub-Project



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower            : The Covernment of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount              :  SDR 50.1 (US$48.0 M equivalent)
Terms               :  Standard
Project Description:  The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to protect
against crop losses, loss of life and property damage
due to floods; (b) to improve the physical environment
to allow farmers to adopt improved agricultural practi-
ces; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water Develop-
ment Board (BWDB). The project would consist of three
sub-projects (Gumti Phase I, Naogaon Polder I and
Madhumati-Nabaganga), covering an area of 104,500 ha
under flood control and drainage (FCD) and 14,350 ha
under irrigation. About 115,000 farm famiLies or about
670,000 people would benefit. The project would include:
i) the construction and rehabilitation of embankments,
water control structures, drainage channels and irriga-
tion facilities and the upgrading of roads; (ii) support
to BWDB to improve the planning, design, and monitoring
of FCD projects, and to improve land acquisition and
operation and maintenance procedures; and (iii) the prepa-
ration of programs for further development of agricul-
ture and fisheries within the project area.
Risks               : One possible risk facing the project is implementation
delays in processing of land acquisition and preparation
of engineering designs. Special arrangements have been
incorporated into the project design to minimize this
risk. A further possible risk would be the potential
decrease in production from natural fisheries within the
project area. The project would provide for appropriate
design of engineering works to minimize this impact, and
for preparation of a follow-up development programme
aimed at increasing crop, livestock and fish production
in the projct areas.



-2-
Project Estimated Costs: 1/
LocaL   Foreign
Cost    Exchange   Total
(US$ MiLlion Equivalent)
Land Acquisition                           7.2       -          7.2
Civil Works                               18.6      5.7        24.3
Equipment                                  1.1      1.3         2.4
Surveys & Investigations                  0.9       2.9         3.8
Studies, Benchmark Surveys & PCR          0.5       0.9         1.4
Engineering & Administration              3.6        -          3.6
Technical Assistance & Training            0.6      2.5         3.1
Operation & Maintenance                    2.0      0.3         2.3
Total Base Costs                     34.5      13.6       48.1
Physical Contingencies                     1.8      0.7         2.5
Price Contingencies                       10.4      4.0        14.4
Total Costs                          46.1      18.3        65.0
11 Including US$2.3 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign
Cost    Exchange   Total
-US$ Million Equivalent)
GOB                                        13.0      -         13.0
IDA                                       33.0    15.0        48.0
UNDP                                       0.6      2.7         3.3
Korean Government                           0.1     0.6         0.7
Total                        46.7    18.3        65.0
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
FY               1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
…US$________-------------  us$  000    …--------------------------
Annual            200   3,300   11,000  12,000  12,000   5,000   2,200   2,300
Cumulative        200   3,500   14,500  26,500  38,500  43,500  45,700  48,000
Rate of Return:    23%
Maps:  IBRD 18549  - Sub-projects Location Map
IBRD 18558R - Gumti Phase I Sub-project
IBRD 18559  - Naogaon Sub-project
IBRD 18560  - Madhumati-Nabaganga Sub-project



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
I. BACKCROUND
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.01    Bangladesh suffers from a chronic shortage of foodgrains.  The
country achieved an annual growth rate in food production of 2.6Z over the
past ten years compared to a population growth rate of 2.7Z and a target
annual production growth rate of 72 needed for achieving food
self-sufficiency in the 1980s. In addition to the inst tutional and resource
constraints holding back production growth, most increase in production has
to come from intensification since available cultivable land is already fully
utilized. Intensification, however, is hindered by flood and drainage
problems of varying intensities and by limited access to irrigation for the
majority of farmers. Of the 9.1 million ha under cultivation during at least
part of the year, over two-thirds are subject to water damage due to flooding
and poor drainage. The absence of flood control and drainage facilities has
been the source of major suffering due to destruction of crops and property.
It has also prevented diversification of cropping patterns and a shift to
more productive crop varieties, and has delayed increase in cropping inten-
sity and development of irrigation.
1.02    IDA has been supporting flood control and drainage (FCD) type
programs in Bangladesh on the basis that they are prerequisites for any
investment programs aimed at alleviating hunger and poverty among a major
proportion of the country's farmers. Controlling floods would result in
substantial increase in production by simply decreasing the extent of damage
to crops, thus at least ensuring farmers their daily food. Under conditions
of controlled water flow, intensification of agriculture through investments
in improved infrastructure, technology and services becomes a logical sub-
sequent step.
1.03    Presently there are about 3 milLion ha with drainage and flood con-
trol facilities of varying quality. There are also about 4 million addi-
cional ha which would likely require such facilities. Based on past
experience, resources required to meet the country's flood control and
drainage needs could reach US$2 billion.l/ Civen the magnitude of the resour-
ces needed, IDA's financial input will continue to be required regardless of
1/ This estimate is based on US$500 per ha which is the estimate under the
present approach of addressing the needs of a defined area at a time.



-2-
foreseeable contributions by ocher agencies and by the Covernment over the
next decade. More importantly. IDA continues to have a critical role to play
in assisting Bangladesh with (i) selecting technically and economically
viable and socially acceptable approaches to water control; (ii) initiating
agricultural development in areas protected from floods and equipped with
drainage facilities; and (iii) promoting the development of institutions
capable of ensuring that FCD-type investment programs provide the intended
services Lo cheir clientele.
Project Back8round
1.04    The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested the International
Development Association (IDA) for assistance in financing a flood control and
drainaFhe project covering a cultivable area of about 104,500 ha in the Dis-
tricts of Comilla, Naogaon, Magura and Narail. The proposed project is
similar in its objectiv.s and design to several ongoing projects, including
two supported by IDA cr lits (Cr. 864-SD and Cr. 1184-BD). The proposed
Third Flood Control and Drainage Project (FCD III) reflects GOB's commitment
to promote full use of the productive potential of the country's scarce land
resources by controllinp floods. improving  drainage and increasing access to
irrigation. n aldition to their direct benefits, thcse actions are viewed
as a means for expanding farmers' access to the benefits from COB's other
agricultural development efforts, particularly those related to the provision
of services, such as research. input supply, extension and credit.
1.05    The project was prepared by the Bangladesh Water Development
Board (BWDB) assisted by the Netherlands Development Consultants (NEDECO).
Funding for feasibilitv studies was provided under IDA's fourth technical
assistance credit. The first group of three sub-projects covering a gross
area of abo t 128.400 ha are included in the proposed FCD III project.
Feasibility studies for another two subprojects covering a gross area of
about 75.000 ha are scheduled for completion inmid 1985 and are expected to
form the basis for a FCD IV project. An IDA appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. S. Cafsi. C.P. Cheng, C. Schokman. R. Stevenin. Y. Ali and
Ms. S. Lysy visited Bangladesh in July 1984. This report is based on the
findings of the appraisAl mission. It also gives dt e consideration to the
conclusions ot a review of the first and second flood control and drainage
projects (Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD) organized in May 1964, in part as a
preparation tor the apprnisal of FCD II!.
Agricultural Sector BacI'ground
1.06    AKriculture in the economy.  The agriculture sector generates over
half ot Bangladesh s CDP; it employs about three-tourths of the labor force;
and it contributes over 80: of export earnings.  Agriculture is dominated by
the crop sub-sector where over 70: of the agricultural value-added
originates. compared to about 15% trom livestock. l0: from fisheries and 5:
from forestry. The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP FYSI-85) gives high priority
to increased foodvrain production as a means of meeting minimum nutritional
standards tor the cournrv' s increasing population. The main thrust of the
SFYP with regard to agriculture is to help farmers acquire more control over
their production environment through development of irrigation facilities.
construction of tlood control and drainage works. reduction in market related
uncertainties. and widespread use of productivity increasing practices.



-3-
1.07    Prad4ztion environment.  Bangladesh is situated in the deltas of
three major rivers - Cange., Brahmaputra and Meghna.   The terrain is
criss-crossed by some 24,000 km of waterways. Alluvial flood plains occupy
about 80% of the total 144,000 sq km land area. During the monsoon season
(May/June to October/November), approximately two-thirds of the cultivable
land (9.1 N ha) is flooded deeper than 0.3 m for three Lo five months. Areas
along the rivers suffer from overbank flooding, while elsewhere heavy rains
and the relatively flat terrain cause extensive drainage congestion. The
average annual rainfall varies from about 1,270 mm in the western part of
the country to about 5,000 mn in the northeast. Rainfall is characterized
by wide seasonal fluctuations, with about 90% occurring in the monsoon
period. In spite of an apparent overall abundance of rainfall, serious
droughts occur occasionally and soil moisture content is normally insuffi-
cient to support cropping without irrigation in the dry season (Novem-
bar-May).
1.08    Nearly all arable land in Bangladesh is under cultivation.  Average
cropping intensity is about 140%, aLthough it is well accepted that climatic
conditions permit a cropping intensity of well over 200%. The most important
crop is rice, cultivated on over three-fourths of the cropped area. Jute,
the principal export crop, in grown on about 6% of the cropped area. Other
crops, in order of importance of acreage, include wheat, pulses, oilseeds.
sugarcane, tea, spices and vegetables. Less than 20% of cultivated area is
irrigated. compared to an identified water resources potential for irrigating
about 50% of the cultivated area using the known potential for surface and
groundwater supply. The absence of tlood control and drainage facilities on
a major part of that area has prevented a shift from the long-stem low-yield
rice varieties to the short-stem fertilizer responsive varieties. moreover,
inadequate moisture content in the soils during the dry season has prevented
a possible increase in cropping intensity in the absence of irrigation
facilities.
1.09    Although average land holding is about 1.4 ha. over 25S  of farm
families own less than 0.5 ha and over one third of rural households own no
land. Mostly as a result of population pressure and the absence of oppor-
tunities for horizontal expansion, the proportion of rural households who are
landless or functionally landless (owning less than 0.2 ha) has been increas-
ing. This trend, combined with limited non-agricultural employment oppor-
tunities has led to an increasing percentage of the rural population below
the poverty line (defined as a d:ily intake of 2.100 calories) from 65% in
1964 to an estimated 75% in 1982. This widespread poverty in rural areas
limits investment in required on-farm development and production inputs. In
addition, transport infrastructure (roads and water transport facilities) and
agricultural services (research, input supply, seed production. marketing,
credit and pump maintenance) remain inadequate vis-a-vis existing needs.
1.10    Policy framework.  Development efforts in the agricultural sector
are aimed primarily at achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency by increasing
local foodgrain production. The strategy for reali:ing this objective is
based on policy options favoring increased reliance on private sector initia-
tive. reduction of public subsidies and improved domestic resource mobi-
lization. Government is implementing measures (i} to encourage private
ownership of irrigation equipment and private participation in the zielding



-4-
of such equipment; (ii) to reduce subsidies on fertilizer and irrigation
equipment with the anm of progressiveLy eliminating them; (iii) to increase
the availability ot and farmers' access to agricultural credit; and (iv) to
motivate farmers to increase production in response to favorable prices for
foodgrains.
1.11    major institutions serving agriculture.   The Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests (MOA) and the Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood
Control (MOI) are che poLicy making bodies for all matters pertaining to
Agricultural Development in Bangladesh. Two major semi-autonomous agencies
are responsible for planning and implementing water related development
programs. The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), which
is linked to the MOA, is responsible for the development of minor irrigation
systems:   low-lift pumps, hand tubewells, shallow tubewells and deep
tubewells. The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), which is linked to
MOI, is responsible for planning, implementation and operation and main-
tenance of flood control and drainage schemes, and medium and major irriga-
tion systems.
1.12    Several agencies provide agrieultural services in support of water
development programs. BADC has been the major supplier of farm inputs (fer-
tilizer. seeds. irrigaLion equipment). Some of these responsibilities are
being progressively trAnsferred to the private sector. IDA has supported
these privatization efforts in the context of successive imports program
credits, agricultural credit projecLs and water development projects.  The
Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council coordinates the research activities
of speciali:ed research inStitutes covering rice (BRRI). jute (BJRI),
sugar (SRI). forestry (FrRI), tishery (FsRI), tea (TRI). livestock (LRC), and
other crops and horticulture (BARI). IDA has supported the establishment of
BARC under Cr. 82a-BD and is suppurting the funding of applied research
programs under Cr. 1215-BD.  The Department ot Agriculture Extension of MOA
provides extension services supported under IDA Cr. 1215-BD. Institutional
lending for agriculture is directed and coordinated by the Bangladesh Bank
and channeled through conmercial and cooperative financial institutions.
Institutional credit has been available to less than 20S of farmers. leaving
Lhe others dependent on their own limited resources or on non-institutional
forms of lending. The issues affecting the availablity of credit and
farmers' access to it were addressed in a joint COB/IDA Review of Agricul-
tural Credit. Operational constraints interfering with adequate and timely
flow of credit to tarners are also being addressed under IDA Cr. 1147-BD and
the proposed thirteenth Imports Program Credit. The Bangladesh Rural
Development Board (BRDS) promotes the growth of farmer cooperatives under the
UCCA/ISS sytem (Upaziln Central Cooperative AssociatioOn and Krishi Sam4bAy
Samities). These cooperatives collect thritt deposits, promote group manage-
ment of minor irrigation equipment and provide credit and inputs to small
farmers. Support to BRDB and the UCCA/KSS system was provided under IDA
Credits 631-BD and 1384-dD.
IDA's Role and Lendi_n!St_-.ttev!
1.13    IDA lending. to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector.
reflecting the country's nceds and its priorities.  Particular emphasis has
been placed on witer resources deveiopment (irrigaLioa. flood control and
drainage). on ..trengthening agricultural services (tecmnology development and



-5-
supply, credit and marketing) and on the development of complementary
infrastructural faciLities in other sectors (transport, power, industry).
Increased Eood production, particularly rice and wheat, has been the target
of IDA Lending in agriculture. On-going projects sLpported by IDA in the
agricultural sector include a large number addressing constraints to the
expansion of irrigation and water control: Barisal Irrigation (Cr. 542-BD),
Karnafuli Irrigation (Cr. 605-BD), Muhuri Irrigation (Cr. 725-BD), Drainage
and Flood Control I and II (Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD), Hand Tubewells
(Cr. 1140-BD), Low Lift Pump (Cr. 990-BD), Deep Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD),
Agriculture Credit (Cr. 1147-BD), Rural Development I and II (Credits 631-BD
and 1384-BD), Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control (Cr. 955-BD) and BWDB
Small Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD).
1.14    In addition, IDA staff have participated with Government staff in a
number of joint studies. Of special significance was the Land and Water
Resources Survey (1972) which led to a change in water resources development
strategy in favor of low-cost irrigation and water control schemes. More
recent joint studies include assessments of the Water Development
Board (1979) and the Minor Irrigacion Sector (1982). Finally, IDA is execut-
ing agency for the UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project. These studies
helped support a series of Imports Program Credits and accompanying policy
reforms in agriculture, including such important policy decisions as the move
towards privatization of procurement and distribution of irrigation equipment
and other farm inputs, the move towards rationalization of Government
approaches to foodgrain procurement and farm input pricing, and the move
towards creating favorable conditions for improved access to institutional
credit. These studies also helped in bringing to the attention of deci-
sion-makers in Bangladesh the urgency of policy action on such outstanding
issues as funding and organization of the functions of operation and main-
tenance for completed infrastructural facilities, and the recovery of the
cost of operation and maintenance works as well as of the initial capital
costs from beneficiaries. These and other issues continue to be part of the
substance of the on-going dialogue between IDA and Government.
Lessons from the Past
1.15    Although no Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been
prepared for FCD type projects in Bangladesh, past experience was brought to
bear on the design of FCD III through supervision of IDA credits 864-BD and
1184-BD, available PPARs on irrigation projects in Bangladesh, and a review
of BWDB's experience in other flood control and drainage improvement schemes
in the country. Important lessons reflected in the design of this project
include: provision for irrigation development where proven water resources
exist; provision for preparation of a comprehensive pLan for intensification
of crop, livestock and fish production following the completion of flood
protection works; provision for upgrading available knowledge on the charac-
teristics of rivers to allow for proper planning of future development
activities and for proper assessment of the potential impact of flood control
works on a river basin wide basis; taking into consideration the water tran-
sport requirements (including country boats) and fish migration patterns in
the design of water control structures; and better planning for land acquisi-
tion and operation and maintenance-related activities.



-6-
II. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
2.01    The project is based on the "simple polder" concept which consists of
an embankment constructed around an area with water control structures to
permit the discharge of internal runoff when river water level is low and to
prevent overbank flooding when river water level is high. This technique is
suitable in areas with shallow to moderate flooding, not requiring high
embankments or pump drainage. The areas included under this project belong
to this category. Other criteria underlying the selection of the pro,ect
areas are given in Annex 1. In the country context, control of flooding and
improved drainage are regarded as: (i) interventions necessary for lowering
the crop losses due to the high incidence of floods - this being a means to
reducing food shortages in areas covered by the project; and (ii) a prerequi-
site for making feasible the initiation of other development programs aimed
at the intensification of crop, fish and livestock production practices. IDA
has considered the international aspects of the project and is satisfied that
the project would not be harmful to the interests of other riparians.
2.02    The project is, therefore, conceived as the means for dealing with
the immediate need of protecting crops from flood damage, while creating an
environment more conducive to intensification of agricultural production.
ALthough the project does not directly provide for such intensification, it
does provide for the preparation of programs for making use of the newly
improved production environment to increase the production of crops, fish and
livestock. The project provides also for strengthening BWDB by complementing
programs initiated under other IDA-supported projects. The two functions
particularly targeted are design and construction monitoring, along with an
attempt at identifying ways for addressirg the critical issue of staff
motivation and for improving BWDB's operational practices and management
procedures.
Project Objective
2.03    The primary objective of the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
is to protect cropped areas, as well as people and their properties from
fLoods, to make further development in agriculture and fisheries possible,
and to promote increased food production as a result of (i) reduction in crop
losses due to flooding; (ii) making it feasible for an increased number of
farmers to shift from broadcast deep water to transplanted shallow water rice
cultivation in the aman (monsoon) season with supplementary irrigation when
feasible; (iii) increase in the area under boro (dry season) cultivation as
a result of a shorter aman season and improved irrigation facilities in part
of the project area; and (iv) expansion of the area under improved crop
varieties. The project has two other objectives: (i) supporting on-going
efforts to strengthen BWDB's institutional capability; and (ii) improving the
information basis for planning further development in the project areas. The
latter would include updating and expanding existing information on the river
basins and on groundwater (for potential development by hand tubewells,
shallow tubewells and deep tubewells) in areas where such information is



-7-
lacking, and for preparing programs for the intensification of crop, fish and
livestock production in these areas.
Project Description
2.04    The project would involve three sub-projects -- Gumti Phase I,
Naogaon Polder I, and Madhumati-Nabaganga -- strengthening of BWDB, studies
and investigations, and preparation of programs for agriculture and fisheries
development. Project works would include construction/improvement of embank-
ments and water control structures, excavation/construction of drainage
channels, improvement/construction of irrigation facilities, and upgrading of
road networks to faciLitate the construction of water control structures and-
their subsequent operatio"n and maintenance.
2.05    The Gumti Phase I sub-project is located in the Comilla District
(IMRD Map 18558R). It is bounded by the Gumti River on the North and East,
the Comilla-Daudkandi road on the South and a road connecting the C.nm-
illa-Daudkandi road with Gouripur on the West. The project area is within
Upazillas of Daudkandi, Muradnagar, Debidwar, and Baucharampur. It covers a
gross area of 37,300 ha of which about 29,500 ha are cultivable. The area
which slopes in the east-west direction towards the Meghna River is part of
the Gumti-Meghna flood plain and is intersected by an irregular ner:.-.ck of
natural drains (khals), old courses and spill channels of the Gumti River.
The micro relief is flat to slightly undulating.  From about May to October
the eastern section of the project area is flooded to depths up to 0.6 meter
and the western end to depths up to 2 meters, due to a combination of over-
bank spilling of the Gumti River, high water stages of the Meghna River and
local rainfall. These floods adversely affect the late growth and harvest of
transplanted aus and boro crops and the early aman crop. Cultivation of jute
and sugarcane in the river bed restricts water flow and aggravates flooding
in the project area. A significant proportion of these crops are cultivated
on Government owned land leased out to private cultivators. A smalL area is
under irrigation using the limited supply of the Gumti River during the dry
season and groundwater resources. River bank erosion along the Gumti River
up to the Meghna flood plain is very severe due to silting up and the
meandering of the River channel. Assurances were obtained from Government
that cultivation in the Gumti river bed would be controlled by discontinuin&
the leasing out of public land.
2.06    The Gumti Phase I sub-project provides for controlling floods through
an improved drainage system, embankments on both sides of the Gumti River and
water control structures. Although the area on the right bank of the Gumti
is not covered by the sub-project, embankment on the right side of the river
is included to protect the northern part of the Gumti-Titas river basin from
possible increased flooding due to the sub-project. Moreover provision is
made for a study of the Gumti-Titas river basin, including aerial photography
cover, and for the preparation of a Cumti Phase II project aimed at protect-
ing and developing the area of the basin not covered under this
project (Annex 2). Provision is also made for improving irrigation
facilities on about 3,700 ha and extending irrigation to an additional
10,650 ha using a primary pump station on the Meghna river. Low lift pumps
to supply water at the farm level would be provided under existing supply
arrangements and their operation would follow procedures established under



-8-
the national Irrigation Management Program (IMP). In order to promote effi-
cient on-farm water use, this sub-project provides for the establishment and
operation of On-Farm Demonstration Units for improving water management
(Annex 2). Existing navigation routes will not be affected except at the
intersection of the Cumti and the Siddheswari Nadi where a navigation lock is
incorporated in the Siddheswari regulator. In addition, the sub-project
would provide for improvement of the existing road network as required for
access to construction sites and subsequent operation and maintenance of the
water control structures. The hydrological and morphological study of the
Gumti-Titas basin would provide a basis for verifying that works under this
sub-project are consistent with further flood control measures and irrigation
development in the whole basin, and would provide the necessary data for the
preparation of further development programs in the basin.
2.07    The Naogaon Polder I sub-project is located in the Naogaon District
(IBRD Map 18559). It is bounded by the Naogaon-Mohadebpur trunk road on the
North, the Atrai River on the west and south and the Little Jamuna River on
the East. The project area is within the Upazillas of Naogaon, Mohadebpur,
Manda, Raniragar and Atrai. It covers a gross area of 46,100 ha of which
about 37,000 ha are cultivable. The project area is part of the upper Atrai
flood plain and has a gentle slope to the south-eastern direction towards the
Brahmaputra River. The land within the area is basically flat (grade of
3 cm per km) with three beels (low area flooded year round) occupying about
10% of the gross area. The project area is annually prone to inundation as a
result of impeded drainage and river spills. In a normal year about
32,000 ha (70% of the gross area) is subject to flooding. Approximately
9,000 ha are inundated to depths of 0.60 to 0.90m and about 5,000 ha
inclusive of the beel areas are inundated to more than 3m. These floods
cause severe damage to aus, boro and aman crops. As in the case of Guzti,
cultivation of parts of the river bed aggravates the flooding of the project
area. During the dry season, irrigation is mainly by means of shallow and
deep tubewells. Surface water resources are limited due t, upstream abstrac-
tion from the Atrai River. As in the case of Gumti, Government assurances
were obtained that cuLtivation in the Atrai river bed would be controlled by
discontinuing the leasing out of public land in the river bed.
2.08    The Naogaon Polder I sub-project would provide for controlling floods
through an improved drainage system, embankments along the Atrai and Little
Jamuna rivers and water control structures. It would also provide for
improving the road system to allow access to construction sites and for
operation and maintenance of the facilities built. In addition, provision is
made for an aerial photography cover of the area and for the hydrological and
morphological study of the Atrai River (Annex 2) to assess the impact of
floods on adjacent areas under post-project conditions and provide data for
the preparation of a plan for the comprehensive development of the Atrai
basin. No investments are planned for the specific purpose of irrigation
development. However, provision is made for flushing sluices to be designed
for the dual purpose of drainage and irrigation. Their invert levels will be
sufficiently low to divert water during the dry season from the Atrai river
into khals in the sub-project area. rn addition, re-excavated khals, con-
struction of new secondary canals and installation of water control struc-
tures would allow storage of water for use during drought periods in the wet
season and for limited irrigation of boro and early aus crops. Although
there is a potential for expansion of irrigation by means of gr'undwater



-9-
resources, none is recommended as part of this sub-project as Government is
in the process of defining rules and procedures for siting shallow and deep
tubewells.
2.09    The Hadhumati-Nabaganga sub-project is Located in the Magura and
Narail Districts (IBRD Map 18560). The area is bounded by the
Gorai-Madhumati River to the east, the Nabaganga River to the west, the
Hagura-Kamarkhali highway to the north and the Halifax cut to the south. It
falls within the Upazillas of Hohammadpur and Lohagara and covers a gross
area of 45,000 ha of which about 38,000 ha are cultivable. The sub-project
area is part of the middle deltaic flood plain of the Ganges River and has a
gradual slope of 10 cm per km in a south-eastern direction towards the Bay of
Bengal. The lowest parts of the basin which occupies about 2,500 ha are
permanently submerged and serve as one of the main water sources during the
dry season. In most parts of the sub-project area, submergence of agricul-
tural land occurs frequently during the monsoons due to overbank spilling of
the Gorai-Madhumati River combined with local rainfall. Flood depths in a
normal year (return period of 2 years) is more than Im in about 10,000 ha
including the beel area of 2,500 ha. These fLoods affect both the aus and
the aman crops. At present, there is a limited area irrigated by means of
low lift pumps and traditional Lifting means. The use of shallow tubewells
is restricted because the ground water table is too deep in the north and
west and because water bearing formations have low permeability in the middle
and south of the area. The use of deep tubewells is limited although some
potential for their use may exist in the north; this needs confirmation and a
study for determining the reliable yield and optimal siting of wells is
provided for under this project (Annex 2). Doubts about the quality of
groundwater in the southern area is also a reason for limited development of
irrigation.
2.10    The Madhumati-Nabaganga sub-project would provide for the construc-
tion of embankments along the Madhumati and Nabaganga rivers, improving and
extending the drainage system, and installation of structures to regulate
water flow. It would also provide for upgrading the road network to the
extent necessary for implementation of sub-project works and for their future
operation and maintenance. In addition, provision is made for an aerial
photography cover of the area and for the hydrological study of the Gorai
River. An evaluation of the potential for irrigation using groundwater
resources is also planned. However, no investments are included for the
specific purpose of irrigation development. Availability of surface water
resources from the Gorai River is uncertain due to inadequate knowLedge about
the water regime, downstream requirement for navigation, present and proposed
abstraction downstream, and the apparently unstable nature of the river which
could cause siltation problems at the intake to pump stations. The Nabaganga
River has virtually no water during the dry season.
2.11    Guidelines for the studies and investigations provided for under the
project are given in Annex 2. The hydrological and morphological studies
in all sub-projects and the groundwater study in the Madhumati-Nabaganga
sub-project would be based on data collected by BWD8. BWDB would use any
suitable and tested river or groundwater simulation models which could be
supplied by MPO in a timely manner and without in any way causing delay in
the implementation of any project component. Otherwise BWDB and their con-
sultants would develop the necessary models and subsequently would make them



-10-
available to MPO in order to avoid duplications. The simulation models are
required for studying the rivers concerned to enable an assessment of the
hydraulic and morphological changes in the river basins associated with
alternative flood control and water development scenarios. BWDB staff would
be trained in the calibration and use of such models. Aerial photography
wouLd serve for checking the rivers evoLution and for preparing contour maps
for the detailed design of drainage and irrigation systems. This work would
be undertaken by internationally recruited specialists. Provision would be
made for a representative of Government to be present while aerial
photographs are being taken. The feasibility study for the Gumti Phase II
Project would be undertaken under a separate contract, excluding the aerial
photography. Water management demonstrations would be conducted by the locaL
agricultural staff following the principles of the on-going NationaL Irriga-
tion Management Program (IMP) introduced under the RuraL Development I
Project (Cr. 631-BD) to maximize irrigation equipment utilization and mini-
mize cost of operation. Under this program, BRDB, BADC and DAE officers at
district and Upazila levels are jointly responsible for supporting UCCA and
KSS cooperatives to: (i) adopt improved water management practices; (ii)
train managers and chairmen of KSS, UCCA inspectors, village accountants,
block leaders, fieldmen, and tubewell operators; (iii) prepare land maps and
land registers; (iv) lay out irrigation channels; (v) prepare irrigation
budgets; and (vi) obtain production credit.
2.12    Programs for agriculture and fisheries development in the three
sub-project areas would be prepared to serve as a basis for mobilizing the
necessary complementary resources and services to make optimum use of the
newly improved production environment (Annex 2). Since no provision was made
under the previous two IDA supported flood controlled drainage -rojects
(Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD) for planning agricultural and fisheries develop-
ment following completion of the flood control works, FCD III would provide
for the preparation of area specific development programs. The preparation
of these programs would be initiated soon after FCD III becomes effective
since both Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD are at an advanced implementation
stage. In the case of fisheries, the preparation of the program would
include a study of the impact of flood control measures on natural fisheries,
as a means for identifying ways to limit such negative impact. The agricul-
ture and Eisheries development programs would be prepared in close coopera-
tion between the Directorate of Planning Schemes I (DPS I), the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests and the Department of Fisheries, and local
authorities and the project beneficiaries of the three Flood Control and
Drainage Projects supported by IDA. MOI would be responsible for coordina-
tion among these agencies. Government assurances were obtained that agricul-
tural and fisheries development programs for areas covered under
Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD would be submitted to IDA for discussion no later
than July 31, 1987 and those for this project no later than July 31, 1990.
Procedures for implementation of those programs, including the possibility of
IDA support for follow-up projects, would be agreed between Government and
IDA following review of the proposals.
2.13    Strengthening of BWDB (Annex 3).  Experience with other flood control
and drainage projects has shown that an important reason for delay in project
implementation has been limited capabilities within BWDB for design, for
planning project impLementation, for organizing and monitoring survey
activities, and for construction monitoring. Correcting this situation would



-11-
require improvement in work procedures (proper scheduling of operations),
staff training, improved staff motivation, and enhancing the
multi-disciplinary nature of project planning and implementation teams. This
project provides for the introduction of measures aimed at (i) giving BWDB an
opportunity for attracting, motivating and retaining qualified planning,
design and construction monitoring staff; (ii) on-the-job training both in
the context of this project and through organized short term training abroad,
workshops and seminars; and (iii) providing for technical assistance to BWDB
for the specific purpose of implementing this project. The Latter is neces-
sary while BWDB staff are being trained and prepared to take over an increas-
ing share of the technical responsibility in the implementation of flood
control and drainage projects.
2.14     Provision is made for establishing a Project Management Unit (PHU)
under the Chief Engineer Planning to be responsible for overall planning,
coordination and monitoring of project implementation (para 4.03). PMU would
be given qualified staff (para 2.15). Technical assistance would be provided
to assist PMU with the impLementation of this project and with developing a
capability within BWDB to impLement future prejc-ts. PMU and its consultants
would, thus, assume responsibility for (i) assisting field divisions with
planning the implementation of those parts of project works assigned to them;
Cii) monitoring engineering surveys, foundation investigations and detailed
designs; (iii) overseeing the preparation and processing of tender documents
and contracts by field Divisions; (iv) monitoring progress in the construc-
tion program; and (v) monitoring the quality of construction works. DPS I
would be responsible for organizing and monitoring the preparation of the
agriculture and fisheries development plans and for preparation of a
feasibility study for the Gumti Phase II Project.
2.15    PMU would consist of a Project Manager, a senior design engineer as
Deputy Project Manager, three design engineers, one planning engineer and
four design and planning engineers. This team would be supported by three
surveyors, two draftsmen and eleven support staff (accountants, secretaries,
clerks, drivers). The Project Manager with qualifications satisfactory to
IDA would be appointed by BWDB. The senior design engineer, the three design
engineers, the planning engineers and the four design and planning engineers
would be recruited according to Government procedures regulating employment
of Bangladeshi nationals in projects with foreign financial support. The
Project Manager and DPS I staff would be expected to ensure direct and fre-
quent contact between headquarters and field staff and would ensure that the
works and studies being implemented reflect local realities and needs.
2.16    It is recognized chat training and improved work conditions, as staff
motivation measures, represent only a limited short term solution to the
issues impeding staff motivation in BWDB. Therefore, as an initial step
towards identifying a longer term solution, the project would provide for
establishing an inter-agency study group to: (i) formally identify and
provide a ranking for the reasons underlying the lack of staff motivation in
the fields of planning, design and construction monitoring; (ii) review cases
(if any) in Bangladesh where such limitations existed and were resolved; and
(iii) visit other countries and review their experience, particularly the
experience with establishing autonomous planning and design units in such
countries as Sri Lanka, Korea and India, among others. The study group would
develop proposals amenable to implementation with a minimum of disturbance to



-12-
the existing institutional arrangements. Such proposals would be reviewed by
Covernment and IDA. The financial and administrative arrangements for their
implementation would be agreed at that time. Government assurances were
obtained that the inter-agency study group would be established, terms of
reference agreed with IDA and that a report would be submitted to COB and IDA
for discussion no later than December 31, 1986.
2.17    Two senior engineers (6 man-years over a 4 year period) would be
provided to PMU as a grant under Korean Government technical assistance. As
advisors to PMU, they would help the Project Manager with the identification
of training requirements of individual staff members, organization of
workshops and seminars, and the preparation and execution of appropriate
training programs based on participation in all phases of project implementa-
tion and/or planned programs of on-the-job training abroad. They would also
assist PMU in supervising project implementation, provide technical support
as required, and monitor the quality of construction works.
2.18    For the specific purpose of project implementation, BWDB would be
assisted by a local consulting firm (34 man years of senior technical staff
supported by three draftsmen, six surveyors and nine technical assistants
over a 6 year period) supported by three expatriate engineers (7.5 man years
over a 5 year period) with broad experience in engineering design and con-
struction monitoring. The consultancy services requirements were estimated
on the basis of BWDB's assessment of its own needs and a joint analysis of
BWDB's existing capability for planning project implementation, for detaiLed
engineering design and for construction monitoring.
2.19     The project manager would be responsible to the Chief Engineer
Planning, BWDB. Consultancy services would be financed by UNDP with IDA as
executing agency. UNDP would give advance authorization to proceed with the
selection of consultants and the award of a technical assistance contract as
soon as possible after credit signing. The appointment of the Project
Manager and the effectiveness of funding agreements of other financiers would
be conditions of credit effectiveness.
2.20     Training in the form of on-the-job training, seminars and workshops
would aim at improving BWDB skills in (i) design and construction monitoring,
(ii) organization and management (task identification, work loading and
estimating, critical path analysis, budgeting, proposal writing,
inter-disciplinary cooperation, quality and cost control), and (iii) project
implementation (how to organize engineering surveys and investigations, how
to organize procurement, how to select among alternative engineering designs,
how to request and evaluate proposals from consultants and contractors).
BWDB staff from different departments would be given the opportunity to take
part in workshops and seminars. In addition, 18 staff members from the
design and construction monitoring units would participate in a program of
on-the-job training under this project, and/or in a program of on-the-job
training abroad. The cost to the project of such participation is recognized
and allowance is made for it in designing the project. A training program
would be prepared by PMU and their consultants and agreed with IDA by March
31, 1986.
2.21       Beyond the immediate need to strengthen BWDB's capacity for
project preparation and implementation, there are broader and longer tern



-13-
institutional questions which need to be addressed regarding BWDB's manage-
ment, internal administration, manpower strength and patterns, operating
procedures and its working relationship with other government agencies.
Accordingly, the project would provide for a review of the management and
administration of BWDB aimed at the consolidation of the findings of previous
institutional studies of BWDB into an action plan, supplemented, if neces-
sary, by additional fact finding and analysis (Annex 2). Assurance were
obtained that this review would be completed by June 30, 1986, and institu-
tional improvements agreed with IDA would, thereafter, be carried out.
Project Works
2.22    The present status of engineering and detailed design provides an
adequate basis for ensuring that cost estimates are reasonably accurate and
is expected not to create any hinderance to the timely initiation of first
year construction activities. Feasibility studies identified alignment of
embankments and location of structures. They also provided bill of quan-
tities for earthworks and corresponding cost estimates based on existing
maps. Detailed surveying of longitudinal profiles, geotechnical surveys and
final bill of quantities are included in the preconstruction activities which
BWDB initiated in December 1984 following the receeding of floods. First
year construction involves limited sections of embankments which would serve
to facilitate access to construction sites and for which acceptable designs
are alrea4y available. Completion of final designs and preparation of a work
program for the first project year would be a condition of credit effective-
ness.
2.23    Civil works (Base cost US$24.3 M) would include a combination of the
following eLements: (i) construction of new embankments and resectioning of
existing ones; (ii) excavation of new or rehabilitation of existing drainage
channels; (iii) construction of water control structures such as regulators,
flushing sluices, cross regulators, and delivery outlets; (iv) construction
and improvement of roads, road bridges, culverts and foot bridges; and
(v) buildings. Embankments would be adequately compacted and would have a
free board high enough to secure them from wave action, subsidence of the
crest due to shrinkage and subsoil settlement, and erosion due to human and
animal use. Following past practice in Bangladesh, the freeboard will be at
least three feet above the design water level which is based on a return
period of 20 years. Once the Atrai river studies are completed, a decision
would be made as to the need to raise the embankment crest levels in the
adjacent Chalan Beel polder (protected under IDA Credit 1184-BD). Adjust-
ments would have to be coordinated basin wide in order not to deteriorate
flood conditions in one area or another. Any additional works in the Chalan
Beel area would be financed under Credit 1184-BD.
2.24    One major difficulty experienced under other IDA-financed flood
control projects was that associated with the enforcement of adequate compac-
tion during the construction of earthfill embankments. Although the
specifications described in contract agreements have been quite clear about
the method to be adopted to obtain the required degree of compaction, inef-
fective supervision by BWDB staff resulted in sub-standard work. Embankment
heights in the three sub-projects are over 3m for about 50 percent of the
total length. High river stages continue for well over 10 days during the
monsoon season. Sub-standard embankment construction would be a hazard to



-14-
local populationf nd could jeopardize all investments in the project area.
Accordingly, provision is made for controlled compaction for the embankment
fill and for mUn"j11y operated pneumatic compactors for backfilling behind
structures. to fOrther highlight the necessity of compaction, tender docu-
ments would prov1ce for Cwo rates: (i) transport of earth from borrow and
placing it in laY`rs of 15 cm (inclusive of stripping of top soil in embank-
ment base andi oonaw area) and turfing of embankment slopes; and
(ii) breaking of Qarch clods, levelling, watering if needed, and compaction
by labor intensiVN techniques such as medium weight hand tampers or bullock
drawn sheep foot%olJlers. In view of the necessity of ensuring a high stand-
ard of constructlCAn each time applications for reimbursement are made
against expendituj.Ue; on construction of embankments, BWDB would be required
to certify thart TZ4%action was propry done and that embankmnents con-
structed  meet      u red standsafet . Assurances to that effect
were obtainea tOnh Government.
2.25    Drainage Ay5rems are designed on the basis that they would be capable
of releasing a ruAOff of 10 days rainfall with a return period of five years
with a submergencfl duration not exceeding three days and with a submergence
period not exceedi.ng six days for a return period of 10 years.  The tail
water level At dtrjnage Structures, which determines the discharge through
the vents, was dekermined from the stage hydrograph for the critical period
of each sub-prOiejt. The outlet works would be constructed on the dry and
would have the StAndard vent size Of 1.50m X 1.80m.  The drainage system
would generatl) f411ow eXisting khals, canals and old river courses, result-
ing in relativell low investment Costs.  Provision is made for new secondary
canals based o t9le assumPtion that 1.5 km of canal is needed to drain
200 ha, which gept%5ents a sufficient conveyance for the runoff of a storm
with a return period of 10 years and discharge within three days. The canals
would be unlined Ankd have Stable side slopes.
2.26    Irrigati0l development at Gumti would be based on the siting of the
primary pump Scackgn at Daudkandi. It wouLd involve a primary pump station
equipped with fivt unrijts of 3 m3/S vertical axial flow pumps, one being a
standby, to suPP13 12 m3/s to the feeder canal.  The vertical axial flow
pumps would be P0'vered through an existing 33 kw powerline.  The feeder canal
would run east al%Ag the Daudkanji-ComiLla trunk road and would be aligned
along the exjsctLl borrow trench aLongside the road. The feeder canal would
have two major SYhori crossings besides several road bridges, outlet struc-
tures, culvert5 ard foot bridges.  Irrigation efficiencies of 75% for the
conveyance sy!Sce  and 65% for the field irrigation system were assumed,
giving an overpli efficiency of about 50%. In order to meet the irrigation
water demand, che  unp station would have to work a minimum of 17 hours per
day during the Pe,k period.  Water would be pumped into the feeder canal and
from there it w"Xud be supplied by gravity into existing drainage channels.
Water distriburioQ  to the fields would be by Low-lift pumps organized under
the on-going nDtiAnal  Irrigation I4anagement Program.
2.27    Roads  to ke improved and embankments to be paved were selected on the
basis of need for accessibility to construction sites, for use during the
operation and fli'1kterance of the project and for use by the extension service
for conducting vaker management demonstrations. Roads and embankment pave-
ment would Iave a width of 2.4 m of herring bone brick paving, in accordance
with established 1gcal standards for rural roads.



-15-
2.28    Land acquisition (Base cost US$7.2 M) would involve about 2,100 ha or
1.6Z of a total gross area of about 128,400 ha. The base cost of Land
acquisition represents 15% of project base costs. At Gumti the land costs is
estimated at Tk 125,000 per ha while land at Naogaon and Madhumati-Nabaganga
is estimated at Tk 90,000 and 70,000 per ha respectively. Land acquisition
has been a major reason for delay in project implementation. Possession by
BWDB of the land required for the first year's construction program would be
completed prior to credit effectiveness. In order to facilitate the process,
the project would provide the necessary resources (funds, equipment and means
of transport) which BWDB would provide to Deputy Comissioners and would
ensure that such resources would be used exclusively cor undertaking project
related land acquisition activities. BWDB wouLd submit land acquisition
plans to DCs nine months prior to construction start-u . Covernment assuran-
ces to that effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.29    Operation and Maintenance (Base cost US$2.3 M).  The project would
provide for the operation and maintenance (O0M) of completed facilities
during the five year construction period as well as during two additional
years to complete the project. The project would be considered completed
when: (i) the necessary measures are taken for ensuring that any deficien-
cies in design or construction of project facilities would be identified and
corrected; (ii) O&M manuals acceptable to IDA are completed, and staff
trained in their use; and (iii) potential beneficiaries and local agencies
serving farmers are well informed on how project facilities could be taken
advantage of in order to improve production practices.
2.30    Operation of the project would involve (i) regular inspections of
embankments, major drainage khals and major irrigation canals; and
(ii) operation of regulating gates, primary pumps and water control outlets
(turnouts). Preventive maintenance would include routine repairs to embak-
ments (such as filling up runnels in slopes, low spots in embankment, returf-
ing) painting of gates, servicing of gates' lifting mechanisms, minor repairs
to gates and rubber seals, minor repairs to structures' protection works,
removal of man made constriction such as fish fences in major khals and
repairs of potholes in roads. Annual maintenance would involve clearing of
water hyacinth and desilting of khals, replacement of gates if needed,
repairs to reguLators, repairs to car.al lining, desilting of irrigation
canals and repairs to canal structures. Provision would also be made
annually for repairs resulting from flood damages, erosion of embankments by
meandering rivers and wave actions. O&M duties would be the responsibiLity
of BWDB's field divisions. Preventive maintenance and annual maintenance
works could be executed under the field Divisions' supervision through small
contracts. Assurances were obtained that Government would allocate the
necessary funds to ensure proper operation and maintenance of project
facilities. Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at about Tk 180Iha
for flood control and drainage works and at Tk 275/ha for the irrigation
system at Gumti.
Implementation Schedule (Annex 4)
2.31    The project implementation period would be seven years (FY86 through
FY92). The three sub-projects would be implemented in parallel. Construc-
tion would begin with embankment works in mid FY86. Project construction



-16-
works would be compLeted in FY 1990. Operation and Maintenance of project
facilities would begin as required during the construction period and would
continue until the end of PY 1992, with a progressively higher share of tha
funds coming from BWDD's revenue budget (para. 3.12-f).
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND ACCOUNTS
Project Costs
3.01    Total project costs are estimated at Tk 2,110 million
(US$65.0 million) with a foreign excange component of US$18.3 million or
28X of total costs (Table 3.1). Es'imates are oased on actuaL mid-1984
contract prices, adjusted to reflect expected prices in mid-1985. The
average cost of land for the three sub-projects is estimated at Tk 96,000
(US$3,310) per ha. Estimates of quantities provided in the feasibility
reports were verified with BWDS's field officers during appraisal. Estimates
of quantities of earthworks are based on cross sections which are already
approved, and on longitudinal profiles derived from available data which
require reconfirma ion by actual surveys.  The latter are part of agreed
preconstruction activities. Unit cost estimates for earthwork for embank-
ments assume that bidding documents would specify the requirement for con-
trolled manual compaction and that BUDB would verify that it is done before
final payment is made to contractors. Costs of hydraulic structures and
bridges were estimated from type designs with foundation conditions to be
ascertained during preconstruction surveys and soil investigations. Cost of
the irrigation system in the Cumti Phase I sub-project was based on the
feasibility study designs which are subject to verification prior to con-
struction. The cost of engineering and administration activities for which
BWDB would be responsible is estimated at 15% of che cost of civil works.
3.02    Project costs include US$2.3 million in taxes and duties.  Physical
contingencies (10X of the base cost of civiL works) amount to US$2.5 million
or about 5% of project base costs. Price contingencies amounting to
US$14.4 million (302 of project base costs) are estimated on the basis of
expected rates for local and international inflation as projected by the Bank
in January 1985. 1/ Detailed cost tables are given in Annex 9.
1/ Bank estimates of local inflation rates are: 13% for FY86, and 10% there-
after. International rates of inflation are estimated at 6.3Z for FY86,
7.8% for FY87 and 8% thereafter.



-17-
Table 3.1:   PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign           Local  Foreign          Z Foreign
Cost   Exchan;e  Total  Cost   exchotal  Exchange
---Tk Million------  -----US$ Million-
--id Acquisition                  207.3      -      207.3   7.2        -       7.2      -
::il Works                        537.9   166.7    704.6  18.6       5.7      24.3     23
-  ipment                         30.6    38.5      69.1   1.1      1.3       2.4     54
1--veys and Investigations         24.4    83.6    108.0   0.9       2.9       3.8     76
adies, Benchmark
Surveys & PCR                   14.4    25.6      40.0   0.5      0.9       1.4     64
-jineering and Administration   105.4      -       105.4   3.6      -        3.6      -
-:hnical Assistance & Training   16.6    79.1       95.7   0.6      2.5       3.1     80
tration and Maintenance          58.3      7.8     66.1   2.0      0.3      2.3      13
Total Base Costs                994.9   401.3  1,396.2  34.3    13.6        48.1     28
juical Contingencies             56.8    16.7      73.5   1.8      0.7       2.5     24
:ce Contingencies               460.3   180.0    640.3  10.4       4.0      14.4     28
Total Costs                   1,512.0   588.0  2,110.0  46.7    18.3        65.0     28
Project Financing
3.03    An IDA credit of SDR 50.1 million (about US$48.0 million) is proposed
that would cover 772 of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties.
UNDP and the Korean Government would finance the Technical Assistance and
Training costs amounting to US$4.0 million, or about 6.4S of project costs,
net of taxes and duties. Covernment would finance the balance of project
costs US$13.0 million (Tk 380 million equivalent), including taxes and duties
through annual budget sppropriations in conformity with the project implemen-
tation schedule. Table 3.2 suumarizes the project financing plan by project
component.
Table 3.2: FINANCINC PLAN
(US$ Million)
Korean
COB   IDA   UNDP   Government   Total
Land Acquisition                       8.6    -     -          _          8.6
Civil Works                            1.8  33.0    -          -         34.8
Equipment                              1.1   1.8    -          -          2.9
Technical Assistance and Training       -     -    3.3        0.7         4.0
Surveys and Investigations             0.4   4.0    -          -         4.4
Studies                                0.1   1.8    -          -          1.9
Engineering and Administration         0.2   4.5    -          -          4.7
Operation and Maintenance              0.8   2.9    -          -          3.7
Total                             13.0  48.0   3.3        0.7       65.0



-18-
3.04    The IDA credit would include US$500,000 for retroactive financing.
l3WDS initiated the following activities in 4nticipation of project approval
by IDA: preparation of draft Project Proformas; selection and appointment of
survey teams; provision of the necessary staff and transport facilities to
the Deputy Commissioner's of£ice; undertaking detailed engineering surveys
and investigations for about 1/3 of embankments and drainage channels;
initiating morpholoRical investigations; and preparation of tender documents.
These activities were initiated to allow a timely start-up of construction
works And, more importantly, to sustain interest in the project generated at
the local level. Covernment Advanced the necessary funds to BWDB and
requmsted that IDA tinance retroactively the actual costs incurred. Such
costs are estimaLed at about US$500.000. Covernment was informed of IDA
procedures with regard to retroacLive financi4g.
3.05       Approval of_Project Proforma by COB would be a condition of credit
atfectivenesq.  In order to avoti delay in project effectiveness, Covernment
would instruct Deputy Comnissioners to initiate action on processing land
acquisition plAns tor the first year construction period following receipt of
PEC clearance ot the draft Project Prnforma.
Procurement
3.06    Civil Works (US$34.0 M. including contingencies, but excluding taxes
and dutiesT   The works would not be suitable for international bidders
because the major portion of the works are relatively small, labor-intensive,
geographically scattered in areas with difficult access, and spread over a
five-year period. The works would, therefore, be carried out under contracts
let through standard local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) which IDA has
reviewed in the context of on-going projects in the agricultural sector and
found acceptable. Contracts for earthwork would be awarded in reaches, while
each major structure would generally have a separate contract. Contracts for
structures would generally include construction materials. However, in cases
where BWDB is in a better position than contractors to procure and transport
mat!rials to construction sites on time. it would supply contractors with
construction materials procured under LCB. In this case the contracts for
structureg would exclude construction materials that would be supplied by
BWDS. When contractors are qualified, BWDB would have the option of includ-
ing in the civil works contracts the fabrication and installation of gates,
including embedded parts. If these have not been included, BWDB would award
separate contracts under LCB procedures to contractors specialized in this
type of work or execute the work on force account basis (FA) utilizing the
services of their mechanical engineering unit. For works costing the equiv-
alent of US$150,000 or more, tender documents and bid evaluations would be
sent to IDA for review before the contracts are awarded. For all other
works, bid evaluation reports together with the contracts would be furnished
to IDA before reimbursement is sought. Force account work in respect of
earthwork would be permitted but is expected to be limited to 0dM activities
and would be restricted to amounts under $5.000 equivalent for each
individual case. Force account work in respect of fabrication and installa-
tion of gates including embedded parts would be limited to $50,000 for each
structure. The use of FA in civil works would be limited to an aggregate
amount of US$600,000.



-19-
3.07    Surveys and Investigations (US$4.1 M, including contingencies, but
excluding taxes and duties) would be undertaken under FA as well as under
contract. BWDB would carry out topographical surveys and foundation inves-
tigations either on FA or under contracts awarded under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Aerial photography cover (Annex 2) would be awarded
according to international competitive bidding (ICB). This contract would
cover the three sub-projects (about 150,000 ha) as well as about 100,000 ha
on the right Bank of the Cunti (to be covered by Gumti Phase II feasibility
study). This component would also provide for consultancy services to
prepare a Gumti Phase II project based on the Cumti-Titas basin area outside
that covered by the present project (Annex 2). These services wouLd be
procured according to principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" as published by the World Bank in August 1981.
3.08    Land Acquisition (US$8.6 M, including contingencies).  The staff of
BWDB and the Deputy Commissioner would be responsible for the processing.
Government would finance land acquisition. Disbursements by IDA would be
Limited to processing expenditures (about US$0.08 M) included under surveys
and investigations, and would be on FA basis. Land acquisition procedures
are described in Annex 5.
3.09    Equipment and Vehicles (US$1.8 H, including contingencies, but
excluding taxes and duties). This includes: (i) primary pumping equipment
for irrigation; (ii) construction equipment; (iii) transport vehicles;
(iv) furniture and office equipment and supplies; and (v) hydrological and
morphological equipment. Spares amounting to approximately 15% of the equip-
ment and vehicles value would be procured with the equipment and vehicles.
Generally, these would be procured following ICB procedures consistent with
the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits". For procurement under ICB, a preference limited to 15% of
the cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 for each contract, which are
needed urgently, may be procured by prudent shopping after comparing bids
from at least three independent suppliers in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Such procurement would not exceed a cumulative total of
US$150,000. Tender documents and advertising procedures for all ICB procure-
ments would be reviewed by IDA before issuance by BWDB, and bid evaluations
would be reviewed by IDA before contracts are awarded.
3.10    Studies (US$1.8 M, including contingencies but excluding taxes and
duties). These include the hydrological and morphological studies, the
groundwater study (including preparation of river and groundwater simulation
models), the bench mark surveys and evaluation studies, the agricultural and
fishery development studies, the water management demonstration units, and
preparation of the project completion report (para 2.11 and Annex 2). The
hydrological and morphological studies would include the installation of
recording instruments, topographical surveys and data collection. These
would be conducted by BWDB. The groundwater study which would require the
installation of test tubewells, the installation of piezometers, data collec-
tion, data analysis and interpretation would be carried out by BWD3, assisted
by consultants. Procurement of tubewell equipment would be included in the



-20-
equipment tender to be floated as described in para. 3.09. Consultants
would be selected on the basis of IDA guidelines.
3.11    Technical Assistance and Training (US$4.0 M, including contingen-
cies). This component would be financed through grants from the Korean
Government and UNDP. IDA would be the executing agency for the UNDP-financed
assistance, which would provide for the appointment of a local consultancy
firm with limited international input (para 2.18) with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions of employment acceptable to IDA in
accordance with principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" as published by the Bank in August 1981.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
(US$ Million)
------ Procurement Method /a
FA
Project Componant                    IC8         LCB       Other        Total
Land Acquisition                                             8.6          8.6
Civil Works                                      33.6        1.2         34.8
(32.4)     (0.6)        (33.0)
Equipment                             1.7                    1.2          2.9
(1.7)                  (0.1)        (1.8)
Surveys and Investigations           2.9          0.5        1.0          4.4
(2.9)       (0.4)      (0.7)        (4.0)
Studies, Benchmark Surveys
and PCR                            0.8                    1.1           1.9
(0.8)                  (1.0)        (1.8)
Engineering and Administration                              4.7           4.7
(4.5)        (4.5)
Technical Assistance & Training lb                          4.0           4.0
Operation and Maintenance                         2.0        1.7          3.7
(2.0)     (0.9)         (2.9)
Total                        5.4         36.1      23.5          65.0
(5.4)      (34.8)      (7.8)       (48.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
Th UNDP and Government of the Republic of Korea assistance.



-21-
Disbursemenc
3.12    Disbursement from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a) 95% of expenditure on civil works, including work done on
force account such as fabrication of gates;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
irrigation primary pumps, construction equipment, transport
vehicles, hydrological and morphological equipment, pump sets
and miscellaneous equipment;
(c) 100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within
the country or 70% of local expenditures (off-the-shelf);
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local expenditures on
surveys and investigation, aerial photography and studies.
(e) 95% of expenditure on engineering and administration during
the construction period, which would be based on 15% of the
cost of implemented civil works contracts; and
(f) 95% of sub-project O&M costs during the f"e year construction
period 75% in the sixth year and 60% in the seventh year.
3.13    Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications except for items (e), (f) above and for force account works and
small civil works contracts costing less than the equivalent of $10,000 each.
For these items, applications would be supported by statements of expendi-
tures certified by the Chief Engineer and the Project Accountant. The
relevant documentation would be retained by B1DB at a central location and
made available for review to IDA representatives on request. In addition,
this documentation would be subject to audit.
3.14    The proposed allocation of the IDA credit and the schedule of disbur-
sements are given in Annex 6. The disbursement profile reflects the
anticipated sequence of sub-project implementation and is based on the
assumption that disbursements for work done in a quarter would be completed
within the next two quarters. These estimates are consistent with the last
disbursement profile for irrigation projects in the South Asia Region which
shows a disbursement period of nine years (including retroactive financing
period).
Accounts and Audits
3.15    BWDB would maintain adequate records to identify physical progress
and financial transactions relating to the project. Individually identifi-
able accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (para. 3.13).
Separate project accounts would be prepared annually by BWDB. Auditors
acceptable to IDA would audit these accounts and statements of expenditures,
where applicable. Audited accounts, together with auditors' comments, would
be sent to rDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year. At
present, BWDB's accounts are audited by the ControLler and Auditor-General



-22-
and by BWDB's Internal Directorate of Audits. These arrangements are satis-
factory to IDA.
Special Account
3.16    Project works wouLd be carried out by a large number of small con-
tractors whose construction capability depends heaviLy upon the speed at
which they receive progress payments, and by force account. To facilitate
payments, to ensure availability of funds and to reduce the number of
withdrawal applications submitted to IDA, the Government would open and
thereafter maintain a Special Account (Revolving Fund) in U.S. dollars with
the Bangladesh Bank in Dhaka. The initial deposit into the Special Account
would be US$3.0 million representing estimated four month IDA financed expen-
ditures. The Special Account would be replenished by reimbursements on a
monthly basis. The Special Account would be used exclusively for IDA's share
of financing.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.01    BWDB would be the implementing agency, responsible for surveys,
detailed engineering investigations, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of completed project facilities. BWDB would also be responsible
for implementation of the studies financed under the project and for prepara-
tion of a project completion report.
4.02    BWDB was established in 1972 as a semi-autonomous agency with a
mandate to plan, construct, operate and.maintain major and medium irrigation
systems and flood control and drainage schemes. Responsibility for minor
irrigation systems was given to BADC. BWDB is under the administrative
control of the Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control.
It is managed by a Chairman and five board members responsibLe, respectively,
for planning, implementation, operation and maintenance, finance, and
administration (Chart 1). BWDB's performance in implementing projects has
been improving over time, partly as a result of continued support from IDA
for upgrading its capability. Special efforts are being aimed at the opera-
tion and maintenance functions in the context of BWDB small schemes project,
BWDB systems rehabilitation project (under preparation) and in the on-going
O&M sector study. IDA has been investigating with Government ways to
strengthen the country's monitoring and evaluation capability at the national
level and plans are underway to address BWDB's monitoring and evaluation
needs under the fourth Flood Control and Drainage project. This project
addresses the planning and design functions.
4.03    BWDB would implement the project through a Project Management
Unit (PMU) established under the Chief Engineer Planning and given respon-
sibility for overall planning, coordination and monitoring of project
implementation, including: planning project implementation; organizing and
monitoring the necessary surveys and engineering investigations; overseeing
the preparation of the final design of project faciLities; organizing and
supervising the hydrological, morphological and groundwater studies (includ-
ing the preparation of simulation models); monitoring the construction of
project facilities; procurement of equipment and consultants; controlling the



-23-
quality of project works and verifying their adequacy for intended purposes;
arranging for farmers, local government agencies and development agencies
serving in the agricultural sector to be thoroughly briefed on modalities for
making optimum use of project facilities; preparing manuals for construction
monitoring and for operation and maintenance of project facilities; overall
financial control; and preparing a project completion report. DPSI would be
responsible for organizing and supervising the preparation of agriculture and
fisheries development plans (para 2.12) and for the preparation of a
feasibility study for the Gumti Phase II Project.
4.04    PMU would be assisted by a local consulting firm with limited
expatriate specialist input and by two consuLtants provided under Korean
technical assistance (Annex 3). PMU would be responsible for keeping
beneficiaries and local government continuously informed about progress in
project implementation. To that end PMU would organize quarterly meetings
(or more frequent when necessary) with farmers' representatives, Upazila and
District officials, and representatives of concerned development agencies to
inform them of progress in project implementation and agree on ways and means
to address any issues hindering such progress. Findings of quarterly meet-
ings would be submitted to BWDB's Chairman and Board Members, to concerned
Ministries and agencies, as well as to IDA for information and possible
follow up actions. Government assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the above practice would be followed.
4.05    At the sub-project level, an Executive Engineer, under the supervi-
sion of the zonal Chief Engineer and the Superintending Engineer, would be
made exclusively responsible for the daily conduct of construction and opera-
tion and maintenance activities in each sub-project area: organizing and
supervising the surveys and investigations necessary for land acquisition;
cooperating with District Land acquisition officers to arrange for verifica-
tion of land acquisition plans; preparation of tender documents; selection of
contractors and award of contracts; supply of construction materials and
equipment when needed; construction supervision and quality control;
implementation of works under force account; and accounting and detailed
financial control. Each executive engineer would be assisted by three
sub-divisional engineers, one for construction supervision, one for procure-
ment and contracts, one for the specific purpose of overseeing O&M
activities, and one revenue officer for land acquisition activities
(Chart 2).
4.06    Given the short construction season in Bangladesh (about six months),
efficient project implementation would depend heavily on proper scheduling
and timely execution of complementary and interdependent activities. Criti-
cal activities are listed below:
(i)    staffing and allocation of responsibilities among PMU staff, BWDB
field divisions and consultants;
(ii)   scheduling of project activities on the basis of consultations
between PMU, its consultants, field divisions and local
authorities;



-24-
(iii) surveys and studies: topography, soil, sub-soil and groundwater
investigations, aerial photography, groundwater and river simula-
tion studies, location and alignment of project works including
resolution of possible conflicts between project requirements and
local private or public interests, agricultural and fisheries
studies, Gumti Phase II feasibility study;
(iv)   land acquisition:  preparation of plans, field verification,
placement of funds, transfer of titles and compensation of pre-
vious owners;
(v)    design of project facilities with due consideration to technical
efficiency, cost considerations and suitability for operation and
maintenance under local physical conditions, financial arrange-
ments and available skills;
(vi)   procurement of materials and services;
(vii)  preparation of tender documents, floating of tenders, bid evalua-
tion and award of contracts;
(viii) construction monitoring, quality control, and verifying the
suitability of faciLities to local needs;
(ix)   modification, repair or upgrading of facilities if found defec-
tive;
(x)    establishing water management demonstration farms;
(xi)   operation and maintenance of project facilities;
(xii)  training: design, construction monitoring, water charge assessment
and collection, administration and management procedures;
(xiii) construction supervision manual; and
(xiv)  O&M manual, including procedures for assessing and collecting
water charges.
4.07    In order to manage these activities, PMU would require timely infor-
mation on progress in the implementation of various tasks. Annual work
programs prepared for each sub-project would define work targets and allocate
the necessary resources to achieve such targets during the year. Monthly,
quarterly and annual progress reports would be submitted to the Project
Manager who would forward them to BWDB's Chairman and Board Members and to
IDA. Those reports would serve as the basis for monitoring progress in
project implementation and undertaking corrective actions if and when found
necessary. To that end, the Project Manager would be responsible for iden-
tifying and highlighting, in writing, any issues in progress reports which
PMU could not address within its own administrative jurisdiction, and, in
consultation with field staff and/or local officials, he would be responsible
for suggesting alternative courses of action. If a problem remained
unresolved for three months, the Project Manager would write a special report
to BWDB's Chairman, copied to EDA, suggesting ways to avoid a stalemate, and



-25-
suggesting measures to be taken, incLuding, if necessary, drastic actions
such as rescheduling of project activities and changes in project design.
Assurances were obtained that PMU would prepare annual work programs for each
sub-project and would keep BWDB management and IDA informed in writing of
progress in their implementation, including proposals for addressing out-
standing issues.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
Production
5.01    Mainly as a resuLt of controlled flooding, improved drainage on
104,500 ha, and irrigation on 14,350 ha, the project would contribute an
annual incremental production of about 100,000 tons of paddy and 13,000 tons
of wheat and other crops (Table 5.1). Increased production would be a result
of decreased harvest losses during the aus and boro seasons, increased yield
in areas where the production environment becomes favorable to a more
widespread use of higher yielding varieties, and where supplementary irriga-
tion becomes feasible for aman, boro rice and other rabi crops during the dry
season. Except for the Gumti area, the projected future with project produc-
tion levels would be achieved with existing on-farm irrigation facilities,
field services and presently available technological practices.
5.02    Present and predicated future cropping patterns for the three
sub-projects are shown in Annex 7. On-farm production parameters are given
in the farm budgets in Annex 8. All are dominated by paddy; increased paddy
production will be the major benefit of the project. In the Gunti
sub-project, where some irrigation equipment is already used, farmers would
be able to expand dry season cultivation of boro (HWY) and grow transplanted
aman (HYV) with supplemental irrigation. In the Madhumati-Nabaganga
sub-project, the major production impact would be expected from the introduc-
tion of t. amanu (HYV). The Naogaon Polder I sub-project increased production
would resuLt from a notable expansion of t. aman (HYV) with supplemental
irrigation using existing tubewells.
5.03    Based on historical observations, reduction in flood losses would be
expected to cause an increase in annual production of about 20S. This
average loss reflects the fact that in a dry year losses may be negligible,
while in a flood year losses may reach 100% over large areas. Production
wouLd also rise as a result of shift in cropping patterns and a moderate
increase in cropping intensities. Estimates of expected yields are based on
field observations under conditions similar to those which would prevail in
the project area following construction of project facilities. Present and
estimated future crop production levels for the three sub-projects are sum-
marized in Table 5.1 and detailed in Annex 7.



-26-
Table 5.1: CROP PRODUCTION
(Metric Tons)
Future           Future       Incremental
Present  Without Project   With Project  Production
(P)         (W)                (w)          (W - W)
Gumti Phase I
Paddy                  96,750        96,750          140,640         43,890
Wheat                  12,000        12,000           16,800          4,800
Jute                    4,480         4,480            5,040             560
Naogoan Polder I
Paddy                  94,760        94,760          140,510         45,750
Wheat                   3,400         3,400            5,500          2,100
Jute                    2,145         2,145            2,310             165
Madhumati-Nabaganga
Paddy                  43,070        43,070           54,560         11,490
Wheat                   4,200         4,200            4,725             525
Jute                    5,100         5,100            7,350          2,250
Pulses                  9,350         9,350           10,800          1,450
Oilseeds                4,200         4,200            5,200          1,000
Total
Paddy                 234,580       234,580          335,710        101,130
Wheat                  19,600        19,600           27,025          7,425
Jute                   11,725        11,725           14,700          2,975
Pulses                  9,350         9,350           10,800          1,450
Oilseeds                4,200         4,200            5,200          1,000
Marketing and Prices
5.04    Domestic foodgrain production falls about 10% short of total consump-
tion in Bangladesh.  Imports of grains have averaged 1.6M tons per year for
the past five years (1980-1984). The incremental production of the project
is, therefore, not expected to cause any marketing problem. It is very
likely that much of the foodgrain production would be absorbed locally, since
all three sub-project areas are currently foodgrain deficit areas. The
additional production of oilseeds, jute and puLses would also be absorbed
without any difficulty, as the amounts involved are relatively smalL.
5.05    Any surpluses at the sub-project level would be handled by the tradi-
tional marketing system.  Market prices are largely determined by the supply
situation. The IDA-financed Import Program Credits (IPC) IX-XII have sup-
ported improvements in the Government's foodgrain procurement and distribu-
tion policy. The objective has been to transform the traditional
urban-biased public food policy into a set of market-oriented stabilization
instruments to promote producer incentives, consumer welfare and food
security. The main elements have been: (a) ensuring remunerative output
prices to farmers; (b) reducing the direct involvement of the Government in



-27-
grain trading and promoting the private grain trade; (c) reducing the large
subsidies in pubLic foodgrains sales through the traditional rationing sys-
tem; (d) reducing the share of subsidized public grain distributed to the
relatively better-off urban, industrial and public sectors; Ce) increasing
the share distributed through channels benefitting the urban and rural poor;
and (f) increasing the scope of open-market sales of public foodgrains.
While significant progress has been made, some constraints remain and will be
addressed as part of IDAs continuing dialogue with GOB.
5.06    In the absence of accurate farm gate prices, current procurement
prices are used for paddy and wheat prices in the farm budget analyses.
Prices for other crops and farm inpucs are based on prevailing market prices.
Farm Income
5.07    Farm income was analyzed for typical farms in the three sub-project
areas. Farm sizes used are 0.8 ha for Cumti and 1.2 ha for Naogoan and
Madhumati-Nabaganga. Averaging flood and non-flood years, present yields are
about 20% below what they would be without flooding, under identical cultural
practices. However, it is important to note that in a flood year the crop
loss in certain areas can amount to up to 100Z. Although, without the
project, future flood situation would likely be more severe than at present,
the analyses conservatively assumed that future conditions would not be
worse. A summary of income estimates is given in Table 5.2 and details are
given in Annex 8.
5.08    Incremental income would vary by sub-project and across individuaL
farmers. However, it would rise on the average by about 30-60% compared to
the without project situation. Although the overall income distribution
would remain essentially unchanged, the project would substantially reduce
the overall level of absolute poverty in the areas. Most importantly, con-
trolled flooding and improved drainage as a resuLt of the project, would
permit further agricultural development that otherwise would not be feasible.



-28-
Table 5.2:  ANNUAL NET FARM rNCOME
(Constant FY85 Prices)
Future             Future
Present      Without Project   With Project
TK      US$     TK       USS       TK      US$
Cumti Phase I
Total Family Income /a         10,040    346    9,940    368       14,950   554
Average Per Capita Income       1,730      60    1,710     63       2,580    95
Naogoan Polder I
Total Family Income            10,920    377   10,920    377       17,260   595
Average Per Capital Income      1,880      65    1,880     65       2,980   103
Hadhumati-Nabaganga
Total Family Income             6,180    213    6,180    213        8,220   283
Average Per Capita Income       1,070      37    1,070     37       1,420    49
/a  Difference between Present and Future without project in Gumti is due to
the fact that water charges are not presently collected, but are expected
to be in the future.
Cost Recovery
5.09    Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of flood controL and drainage
works is a complex issue. As in many countries, protection against flooding
in Bangladesh is considered to be Government's responsibility, and the
accepted view is that beneficiaries should not be directly charged.
Moreover, benefits from flood control and drainage work vary from one plot to
another, depending upon the topography. In the case of some high land
owners, the benefits can actually be questionable. Unless cost recovery is
done through a land productivity-based system, it appears very difficult to
design an equitable system of direct cost recovery. GOB's current view,
which is accepted by IDA, is that cost recovery on drainage and flood control
projects is not feasible at this stage.
5.10    A revised Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance went into effect in
July 1983, and new water rules were issued in January 1984. Specific water
charges for completed gravity irrigation schemes were published in June 1984.
These rates were based on estimates of the 0&M costs in each project area
under consideration. These new rates amount to Tk 125-375 per ha per season
depending on crops. Under the new rules, BWDB would be responsible for both
the assessment and collection of water charges. Government agreed to
initiate the collection of the new water rates in 1985 with a view to recover
the cost of O&N by July 1, 1990 (Credit 1467-BD).
5.11    The project provides for irrigation development in the Gumti Phase I
sub-project area. Water charges used in the farm budget analysis for Gumti
amount to TK 275 ha. This rate was estimated on the basis of full recovery
of O& costs of irrigation facilities. In an attempt to strengthen BWDB's
capability to assess OEM cost estimates for irrigation projects and to



-29-
develop an institutional capability to collect water charges, the project
would provide for undertaking actions in the Cumti area aimed at improving
BWDB's methodoLogy for assessing O&M requirements and strengthening its field
organization, manpower capability, and procedures for coLlecting water char-
ges. The resuLts of these actions would be incorporated in the O&M manuals
to be prepared by PHIl.
VI. BENEFIT AND JUSTIFICATION
Production and Employment
6.01    About 115,000 farm families, the equivalent of 670,000 people, would
directly benefit from the project. Their present annual per capita incomes
range from Tk 1,000 to Tk 1,900, the equivalent of US$40-65. The project's
principal direct benefits would be increased foodgrain production and employ-
ment opportunities. Incremental foodgrain production would be 67,000 tons of
milled rice and 13,000 tons of wheat and other crops. Direct employment
would be permanently increased by about 4.2 million man-days per year of
on-farm labor, at the full development stage of the project (project
year 10). Two million man-days per year would be required for earth works
during project implementation (project years 1 to 5), and 0.2 million
man-days per year for O&M after the completion of the project's construction
phase (project years 6 to 30). There would also be a substantial increase in
secondary employment for marketing, processing and supplying farm inputs.
6.02    At present, there is no scarcity of labor in the project areas.  It
is very unlikely that foreseeable developments in these areas would result in
labor shortage in the future. Due to the age composition of the population,
the labor force growth rate in the project areas is estimated at 5.4Z or
12,000 workers per annum. 1/ The incremental demand for labor due to the
project should help to relieve, but will not eliminate, the high unemployment
and underemployment in the project areas.
Economic Analysis
6.03    The economic rates of return (ERR) are estimated at 22X for Cumti,
28Z for Naogoan and 16Z for Madhumati-Nabaganga. At a discount rate of 12X,
the assumed opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh, the project's dis-
counted benefits would be US$55 million, and the discounted costs
US$23 million, leading to an economic net present value of US$32 million.
Net present values for each sub-project are shown in Table 6.1. Economic
benefits and costs are expressed in constant FY85 prices. The assumptions
underlying the economic analysis are as follows:
(a) Project Life: Thirty years, with full development reached
in project year 10 (FY95).
1/  Based on information from "Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh (1981)" and
"The Manpower Situation in Contemporary Bangladesh (1982)."



-30-
(b) Prices: Farmgate prices for traded goods are projected on
the basis of the January, 1985 IBRD commodity price forecasts
(Annex 8). Non-traded goods prices are based on domestic
financial prices and are assumed not to change in reaL terms..
With the new Chittagong Urea olanr under construction, it is
expected that Bangladesh wiLl beconme a net exporter of Urea
by the end of the decade. Therefore. the import parity price
is used through 1990 and the export parity price for later
years. Domestic prices and price comp2nents are translated into
border prices using a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
(c) Project Costs: Project economic costs are given in Annex 8.
All costs are included in the economic analysis with the
exclusion of price contingencies, cost of land acquisition,
costs of non-project specific studies, and taxes and duties.
The O&M costs include those incurred during construction and
throughout the useful life of project facilities (estimated
at 30 years). Replacement cost of the pumping station in the
Cumti sub-project is included as part of O&M costs, with an
estimated lifetime of 10,000 hours for each pump. Low lift
pumps used in the same area are not financed under the project;
however, their investment and O&M costs, estimated on the basis
of current charges by co-ops in the project area, are incLuded
in the economic analysis as part of on-farm cost. Land
acquisition costs are excluded from the economic costs of the
project on the basis that the true economic cost of land taken
out of cultivation is the production foregone. The latter was
subtracted from the project benefits. All costs are converted
into FY85 terms using the deflators shown in Annex 8. Local
costs are expressed in border prices by applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.8.
(d) Project Benefits: Benefits would result from expected
reduction of crop losses (which will be realized at the
completion of construction or project year 5), minor changes
in the cropping pattern (with full development reached in
project year 10), and yield increases nnrmally realized
under-prevailing cultural practices in conjunction with such
changes. An estimated decline in production from natural
fisheries of about Tk 1.5 miLlion per sub-project was
deducted from project benefits. In addition about 300 ha
in the river beds would be taken out of production as a
result of the project. Production from that area was excluded
from project benefits.



-31-
Table 6.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND NET PRESENT VALUE
Sub-Project                   ERR             NPV
Z            (US$p)
Cumti Phase I                  22              11
Naogoan Polder 1               28              18
Madhumati-Nabaganga            16               3
Total Project               23              32
Sensitivity Analysis
6.04    Sensitivity tests indicate that the three sub-projects remain viable
under a variety of assumptions regarding costs and benefits. As shown in
Table 6.2, with costs up 20% and benefits down 20Z or a lag in incremental
benefits of two years and a 20% cost increase, the ERRs would remain at or
above 12% for all sub-projects. For project to become uneconomical,
ise., generate a real rate of return below the assumed opportunity cost of
capital (12Z), benefits would have to fall 60% for Cumti, 70% for Naogoan
and 45Z for Madhumati-Nabaganga; or costs increase 140Z for Cumti, 250% for
Naogoan and 50% for Madhumati-Nabaganga. Such large changes in the benefit
or cost streams are unlikely. Flows of economic benefits and costs are given
in Annex 11.
Table 6.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
…R---- Rate of Return ---
Madhumati-
Gumti   Naogoan      Nabaganga
(a)  Base case                                    22        28            16
(b)  Project costs increase 20%                   20        25            14
(c)  Project benefits decrease 20%                19        25            14
(d)  Costs increase 100%                           14       18             9
(e)  Benefits decrease 502                        14        18             9
(f)  Benefits delayed one year                    20        25            15
(g)  Benefits delayed two years                   18        22            14
(h) Cost increase 20% and benefits
decrease 20%                               17        22           12
(i) Project costs increase 20X and benefits
delayed one year ((b) and (f))             18        22           13
(j) Project costs increase 20% and benefits
delayed two years ((b) and (8))            16        20           12
Project Risks
6.05    According to supervision reports for ongoing projects and audit
reports for completed projects in Bangladesh, project implementation has been
hindered by a combination of factors, incltding:



-32-
(a) time overrun resulting from an inadequate allowance made for
delays due to: li) cumbersome administrative procedures and
the associated dilution of responsibility and authority;
(ii) weak infrastructure (physical and institutional) resulting
in worse logistical constraints than foreseen; and (iii) changes
in project environment due to unforeseen internal or external
developments affecting the parameters on which the project was
based; and
(b) ineffective use of technical assistance due to (i) poor defini-
tion of its purpose; and (ii) limited country involvement in its
design, selection and monitoring.
6.06    Due consideration was given to these factors in the course of
appraising this project. Whenever feasible, specific proposals are incor-
porated in project design to minimize the likelihood that this project would
be affected to a similar extent by the above constraints. Some of these
constraints are also being addressed under other projects, and as part of the
broader policy dialogue with the country. It should be recognized, however,
that the above constraints still exist and concerted efforts would have to be
made by the implementing agency to minimize their impact on project implemen-
tation and to progressively eliminate them.
6.07    With specific reference to flood control and drainage projects.
experience in Bangladesh indicates that one risk facing this project would be
delays in processing land acquisition, engineering design, and revisions in
Project Proformas. The issue of land acquisition was discussed with farmers'
representatives and local and central government officials. No local opposi-
tion was raised, and all parties invnlved have agreed to assist in timely
preparation and execution of the land acquisition plan. A component of the
project is designed to strengthen BWDB's capabilities in planning, design and
construction monitoring. BIDB institutional needs are also being
strengthened in the context of ctime projects. It should be recognized,
however, that this is a long term process and that 8WDB would have to rely
partially on the use of consultants. To deal with the ssue of frequent
revisions of Project Proformas (PP), it was agreed that a draft Project
Proforma be prepared prior to negotiations to ensure conformity between PP
and SAR. This PP along with the SAR and the legal documents formed the basis
of project negotiations. The need for consultations between COB and IDA
prior to changing the PP has been stressed to Governmen. and was further
highlighted during negotiations.
EnvironmentalImact
6.08    This project faces two possible environmental risks: possible hin-
derance to the migration of certain species of fish into the project area,
and possible shift of floods to areas not yet protected from floods. A
fisheries specialist was included in the appraisal team. Measures are intro-
duced in project design to minimize any negative impact on natural fisheries.
In addition. the project provides for studies aimed at improving the under-
standing of the link between flood control and natural fisheries. Investiga-
tions are provided for under the project to determine the extent of adverse
impact on natural fisheries and devise ways to minimize such impact. Project
design has already introduced measures to allow migration of the fish into



-33-
polders through properly designed and operated water control structures.
Possible losses from natural fisheries would also be ultimately compensated
for through fisheries development programs to be prepared under the project.
The impact of polders on adjacent areas is also being studied and sufficient
flexibility is built into project design to allow corrective action to be
undertaken in light of new information. The proiect provides also for
basin-wide assescment of the impact of flood controL and drainage programs.
Account was also taken during project design of the water transport require-
ments in the areas being protected from floods.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    Credit effectiveness would follow (i) appointment of the Project
Manager, and effectiveness of funding agreements of other financiers
(para. 2.19); (ii) completion of final designs and preparation of a work
program for the first project year (para 2.22). (iii) possession by BWDB of
the land required for the first year construction (para. 2.28); and
(iv) approval of the Project Proforma by GOB (para. 3.05);
7.02    In addition, the following assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations:
(a) cultivation of jute and sugarcane in river beds would be controlled
by discontinuing the leasing out of public lands in river beds to
private cultivators (paras. 2.05, 2.07);
(b) agricultural and fisheries development programs for areas covered
under Credits 864-BD and 1184-Bp would be submitted to IDA for dis-
cussion no later than July 31, 1987 and those for this project no
later than July 31, 1990 (para. 2.12).
(c) the inter-agency study group to review staff motivation for those
involved in planning, design and construction monitoring would be
established in accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA
and would submit its report to IDA for discussion, no later than
December 31, 1986 (para. 2.16);
(d) a training program would be prepared by PMU and their consultants and
agreed with IDA by March 31, 1986 (para 2.20);
(e) GOB would undertake a consolidation of the findings of previous
studies of BWDB's institutional capability, supplemented, if neces-
sary, by additional information gathering and analysis. The study
would be completed by June 30, 1986 and a report furnished to IDA for
conments. Institutional improvements agreed with IDA would, there-
after, be carried out (para 2.21);
(f) when submitting bills for reimbursement against embankment works,
BWDB wouLtd certify that compaction was properly done and that embank-
ments constructed meet required standards for s'fety (para 2.24);
(g) BWDB would provide Deputy Commissioners with tne resources necessary
for verification and approval of land acquisition plans (para. 2.28);



-34-
(h) BWDB would submit land acquisition plans to Deputy Commissioners nine
months prior to construction start-up (para. 2.28);
(i) government would allocate the necessary funds in BWDBs annual budget
for operation and maintenance of project facilities (para 2.30);
(j) PMU would organize quarterly meetings with farmers representatives,
Upazila and District officials, and representatives of concerned
development agencies to exchange views on progress in project
implementation and would report its findings to BWDB management and
IDA (para. 4.04); and
(k) PMU would prepare annual work programs for each sub-project and would
keep BWDB management and IDA informed in writing of progress in their
implementation, including proposals for addressing outstanding issues
(para 4.07).
7.03    With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 50.1 million (US$48 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of Bangladesh.



-35-                             Annex 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Sub-Projects
1. The total irrigation investment per net ha shall not exceed
US$620 (at 1980 prices); the per ha drainage and flood control
investment shall not exceed US$500 (at 1980 prices) including
cost of land acquisition;
2. Each sub-project shall be at least 8,000 ha net;
3. In this early phase of the program, drainage is to be by
gravity or tidal outlets;
4.  The project will be primarily located in shallow flooded
areas. Along 80% of the length of the embankment alignment,
the normal flood depth shall not be in excess of 4.5 ft and
along the remaining 20% not in excess of 6 ft. Submersible
embankments should also be given consideration in areas such
as Sylhet;
5. Beneficiaries should indicate support for the project.
6. The embankments shall give protection against 20 years floods,
depending on the location, and against 100 years floods if
significant loss of life may occur;
7. Due consideration given to the potential effect of proposed
improvements on flood conditions in adjacent areas, on naviga-
tion and on existing fisheries.
8. Each sub-project shall be self contained even if such a
project is a phase of an envisaged bigger project.
9. The construction of project works shall, if possible, be by
labor intensive methods and by utilizing as far as possible,
indigenous materials, consistent with sound engineering prac-
tices; and
10. The economic rate of return shall not be less than 15% for
flood control and drainage works and not less than 20% when
irrigation development is added.



Annex 2
Page I
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Guidelines for Studies and Investigations
1.      Hydrological and morphologicaL studies at Cumti Phase I and Naogaon
PoLder I are scheduled to commence in FY84/85 for a period of three years.
The hydrological study at Hadhumati-Nabaganga sub-project is scheduled to
commence in FY85/86 and be completed at the end of FY86/87. The groundwater
study at the Madhumati-Nabaganga sub-project is scheduled to commence in
FY85/86 and be completed at the end of FY86/87. The project would provide for:
(a) installation of the hydrological and groundwater equipment;
(b) carrying out the field measurements processing and publication;
(c) consultancy services for development, calibration and testing of
simulation models and for training BWDB staff in their use; and
(d) in Madhumati-Nabaganga Sub-project for the procurement of
deep tubewell equipment.
A. Gumti Phase I: Hydrological and Morphological Study
2.      Measurements on the Cumti river, Bari Nadi, Sonai Nadi, Solda
Nadi, Bijni and Titas would be undertaken to meet the requirements of
mathematical modelling of the Cumti basin. Some measurements would con-
tinue to meet BWDB's future needs and would become part of their normal
data gathering effort:
(a) bed sampling and determination of grain-size distribution;
(b) water sampling and determination of sediment concentration and
grain-size distribution (these samples should be taken regularly,
especially during the flood season);
tc) suspended load transport measurements;
(d) bed load transport measurements;
(e) soundings and cross-sections at regular intervals;



-37-
Annex 2
Page 2
(f) survey and inventory of sugarcane crops, tree crops, embankments
and structures in the Gumti flood plain which affect the hydraulic
roughness;
(g) water surface slope measurements during discharge measurements;
(h) stage-discharge measurements at suitable locations, in particular
during floods; and
(i) overland flow and related topography.
3.      The study would include the following:
(a) the field measurements described in para 2;
Cb) data control, processing and reporting;
(c) development and calibration of a mathematical model of the Gumti
and Titas Rivers and the Buri Nadi (including Salda Nadi); and
(d) the numerical simulation of the hydraulic and morphological
response of the Gumti River to implementation of flood protection
and drainage schemes. This is needed for this project as well as
for the feasibility study of the Cumti Phase II Project.
4.      Work involved in field measurements would comprise:
(a) the installation of 2 new auto recorders at Salda/Bijni River and
Sonai Nadi;
(b) the installation of 11 new staff gauges, 2 at Cumti River, 2 at
Buri Nadi, 2 at Titas River, 4 at the auto recorder sites and 1 at
existing auto recorder site at Cumti River (Comilla);
(c) the installation of 7 overland gauges in the G-Ati-Titas Basin;
(d) hydrographic surveys at about 50 locations along the Gumti River,
Buri Nadi, Sonai tNadi, Salda Nadi and Bijni River. The surveys
would be conducted at intervals of 3 km along the rivers;
(e) weekly discharge measurements at 12 locations along the rivers;
(f) sediment measurements taken twice a month during the period May to
October at 4 locations along Gumti River, 2 locations along the
Buri Nadi and 2 locations along the Salda Nadi;



-38-
Annex 2
Page 3
(g) bottom sampling once a year at about 25 locations along Gumti
Titas, Buri, Salda, Bijni and Sonai Nadi; and
(h) computation of discharge data, laboratory anaLysis of sediment,
plotting and printing of hydrographic data and compilation of all
the data and analysis in book form.
B.  Madhumati/Nabaganga
5.      Hydrological Study: The study provides for:
(a) upgrading, locating and scheduling installation of the
hydrological recording network throughout the Gorai-Madhumati
River: 5 gauging stations between Kamarkhali and Patgati;
'b) triangulation and cross-section survey at 5 km intervals
along the river including computation and checking;
Cc) measuring discharges and water surface slopes at weekly
intervals;
Cd) water level observations at hourly intervals;
(e) preparation of plans, computation of discharge measurements
by computer; processing, checking and plotting of water
level data; and
Cf) printing of hydrographic data and compilation of data and
analysis in book form.
6.      Groundwater Study:  A regional groundwater model being prepared by
a consultant under the South West Rural Development Project would outline
the permissible tubewell development based on overall regional conditions.
In this regional model the Madhumati-Nabaganga subproject area will be
simulated by a few nodes in the grid network. With prevailing local
conditions, like lateral attractions from streams, upcoming and/or lateral
intrusion of saline groundwater could not be considered accurately in such
a regionaL model.  A detailed groundwater model using a relatively dense
grid network would be needed to determine the optimal tubewell configura-
tion in the project area.



-39-
Annex 2
Page 4
7.      The study would provide for:
(a) mapping of existing tubewells, observation wells and piezo-
meters on topographical maps;
(b) preparation of groundwater contour maps of the phreatic
groundwater as well as of the potentiometric surface of
the main aquifer. For preparation of the maps, 5 additional
double piezometers are needed (one shallow piezometer in
the upper clay layer and one deep piezometer in the main
aquifer). One of the piezometers should be installed close
to the Gorai River, in order to study the lateral inflow
or outflow along the periphery and the possible leakage
between the aquifer and the river;
Cc) preparation of depth to water table maps;
(d) preparaticn of groundwater fluctuation maps;
(e) preparation of transmissivity maps Gf the main aquifer.
For this study two additional pumping tests (6 days) with
6 to 9 observation wells each would be carried out. The
test sites would preferably be selected on the basis of a
geo-electrical field survey. The test wells would be
deveLoped for irrigation purposes after the tests. Each
test is to be repeated 2-3 times;
(f) preparation of hydraulic head differences maps between the
upper clay layer and the main aquifer;
(g) preparation of hydraulic resistance map of the upper confining
layer;
(h) contour maps of the main aquifer, giving depth and thickness
and the impervious base of the aquifer; and
Ci) preparation of groundwater quality maps.
C. Naogaon Polder 1: Hydro-Morphological Study
8.      During the implementation phase a mathematical model of the Atrai
Rier system wouLd be developed, capable of simulating the hydraulic and
morphological processes and its response to river engineering projects.
As the ultimate hydrological conditions in the project area depend to a
great extent on the future downstream developments, this model should
cover the whole of the Atrai River system, between Mohadebpur and its
outfall in the Hurasagar (Karatoya) River. The results of this study are



-40-
Annex 2
Page 5
of prime importance for the detailed design of the project, but also for
the planning of other drainage and flood control projects in the Basin.
It would in particular provide information on:
Ca) future flood and tail water levels;
(b) embankment design and flood plain management;
Cc) morphological changes of the main river channels;
(d) sedimentation of structures;
Ce) navigability of the river; and
(f) impact on groundwater table and recharge potential.
9.      The field measurements listed below would require mainly the
upgrading and improvement of the existing gauge network:
Ca) weekly discharge measurements at 18 existing and 2 new stations
along the Atrai-Gur-Camani, Jamuna, Nagor, Bhadai, Baranai-
Fakirni and Baral-Nandakaya Rivers;
Cb) daily water level observations at 22 existing and 2 new stations
(5 times daily);
iC) water surface slope measurements during discharge measurements;
id) sediment measurements at 6 locations at regular intervals (6-8
during the monsoon period and 2-4 during the dry season), compris-
ing suspended load transport and bed load transport measurements
and water sampling;
(e) bottom sampling once a year at approximate 6-8 km intervals;
(f) soundings and cross-sections at 3 km intervals, overland flow
measurement and related topography; and
(g) survey of hydraulic conditions in the flood plain.
10.     The study would include the folLowing:
(a) field measurements described in para 9;
(b) data collection, analysis, printing and reporting;



-41-
Annex 2
Page 6
(c) development and calibration of the mathematical model of
Atrai-Baranai-Baral Rivers system;
(d) numerical simulation of the hydraulic and morphological response
to implementation of river engineering schemes in the Atrai Basin;
and
(e) indicate remedial measures against possible adverse effects of
basin-wide river development.
11.     Upgrading of the existing hydrological network would include:
(a) the instalLation of 2 new water Level and discharge stations along
Bhadai and Baranai Rivers;
(b) the installation of 5 auto-recorders at existing stations
(Atrai-Gur-Gamani, and Baranai Rivers); and
Cc) replacement of 12 shifting type water level gauges by permanent
gauges (fixed against structures or bhula poles).
D.  Role of BWDB and Consultants in iydro-MorphoLogical Studies
12.     Extensive flood protection works would result in a reduction of
the storage of floodwaves, which in turn would cause an increase of peak
discharges. Moreover, the flood levels tend to become higher because of
the confinement of the flow and increase of backwater levels. The
increase of peak levels due to construction of flood protection works in
one area of the river basin would result in a higher risk of flooding for
another area. The confinement of the flow to the floodway in combination
with increased peak discharges would cause increase of flow velocity and
subsequently an increase of the sediment transport capacity of the flow;
erosion would likely be the result, while sedimentation would occur at
other locations. Long term effects would include channel degradation,
reduction of the slope of the river bed, local scour, and downstream
deposition of sediments, possible change in river geometry and bank
instability. One of the important effect on the long term could be lower-
ing of the riverbed. This would have the advantage that, in time, flood
stages would be reduced. Basin wide drainage characteristics would be
affected as the base level of the river and the groundwater table are
lowered; low water levels would also be lowered, and hence water intake
structures may loose their function, and foundations of structures as
bridges and harbor quaiwalls would be affected. The hydraulic and mor-
phological changes - both short term as well as long term - that are
associated with men induced changes in the river on a basin wide scale
should be analyzed and their impact assessed.



-42-
Annex 2
Page 7
13.     The consultants would develop simulation models that enable a
proper quantitative assessment of the hydraulic and morphoLogical changes
in the river basin associated with a variety of alternative development
strategies. These models shall include a hydrodynamic model and a mor-
phological model. The models shall be general in character allowing
application to other river basins in Bangladesh. A data base management
system for storage and retrieval of all pertinent hydrological, hydraulic
and morphological data of the river and its environment shall be developed
and st.all serve as a basis for data handling for models. The accuracy of
the models shall warrant a sound evaluation of river response to flood
protection works without obscuring the significant and fundamental dif-
ferences. In view of the relatively slow morphological processes and
hereto related morphological time scale, the morphological model shall be
capable of indicating not only the final condition of the river but also
the intermediate conditions prevailing before reaching this final equi-
librium state. Since MPO requires this type of simulation model in its
planning work, BWDB and its consultants would work in close cooperation
with MPO and would exchange information and available knowledge, including
tested simulation models and would avoid duplication of efforts, unless
such duplications are made necessary in order to implement the project in
a timely manner.
14.     Data Collection and System Analysis.  The consultants shall
prepare a basic qualitative description of the physical processes that
govern the response to changes in the Atrai and Cumti River basin systems.
For the purpose of modeling, the Atrai Basin is defined as the
Atrai-Gur-Gumani River system, from about 30 km upstream of Mohadebpur to
the confluence with the Karatoya River, including all relevant tributaries
and branch channels. The Cumti Basin is limited to the Gumti River
between the Indian border and its outfall point in the Meghna River,
including the Titas River, the Bijni, the Buri Nadi and its tributaries
Solda Nadi and Sonai Nadi. Topographical, hydrological, climatological,
hydraulic and fluvial morphoLogical data as well as relevant data on land
use and infrastructure shall be collected from existing documents to the
extent necessary and practical for evaluation of the environmental impact
of alternative development strategies on the entire river basins. The
consultant shall review and analyze the collected data, and if deemed
necessary, shall specify additional data to be collected, such as dis-
charge measurements, bed material grain size distribution and additional
topographical surveys of river levees, flood embankments or other relevant
features that are of significance in hydrodynamic modelling. The
Bangladesh Water Development Board will make available to the consultants,
free of charge, all available data, such as reports (including comments
thereon), maps, aerial photographs, climatological and hydrological
charts, river channel data, sediment transport data, or any other data
that is considered to be essential for the study. In addition, the BWDB
will carry out additional data collection as required by the consultant.



-43-
Annex 2
Page 8
15.     Modelling of the River Systems.  The consultant shall initially
prepare a basic hydrodynamic modeL of the specified ACrai and Gumti River
basins, based on the presently available data on topography, infrastruc-
ture, hydrology, channel geometry and hydraulics. All pertinent and
significant features of the river basins shall be included in the
schematization for subsequent modeling. The model shall be calibrated for
the existing situation using the available data. Calibration and sub-
sequent verification shall continue until the results of the model are of
the required accuracy that warrants its useful application in performing
impact analysis. For the purpose of impact analysis, a number of river
basin development scenarios will be specified by the consultant in close
consultation with BWDB and other relevant agencies such as the Ministry of
Irrigation (tMPO) and Ministry of Port, Shipping and Inland Water Tran-
sport.
16.     Transfer of the Model and Training.  The Bangladesh Water Develop-
ment Board will make available staff selected from the Hydrology Direc-
torate as weLl as from the Directorate of Planning to cooperate with the
team of consultants. During the implementation and development of the
model, the consultants shall share their knowledge and experience with
this staff, and the subsequent modeling study of the Atrai River basin
shall be a joint effort of the consultant and BWDB staff. ConsuLtant
shall present recommendations regarding possible additional training for
BWDB staff; the type and field of training required shall be inditated.
The consuLtant shall transfer the model and the associated software to the
Bangladesh Water Development Board.
17.       Duration of Studies.  The estimated duration of the study would
be 18 months. This would require about 20 man-months of internationally
recruited speciaLists for (a) deveLopment and calibration of the models,
(b) recommendations for application of the model to specific development
scenarios, and (c) the preparation of TORs for further work if deemed
necessary.
18.     Reporting.  The consultant shall submit the following reports to
the Bangladesh Water Development Board:
-   quarterly progress reports;
-   interim report, to be submitted after six months;
-   users manual of the modeLs, to be submitted upon completion of
the first phase of the studies (18 months);
-   draft finaL report to be submitted after completion of the second
phase of the studies;



-44-
Annex 2
Page 9
one month after reception of the draft final report, the
Bangladesh Water Development will give its comments; and
-   final report, to be submitted one month after reception of the
comments of the Bangladesh Water Development Board.
E. Role of BWDB and Consultants in Groundwater Study
19.     The Madhumati Nabaganga Project area is located in the southwest
region of Bangladesh in the Kagura and Narail Districts. It is situated
between the Madhumati River and the Nabaganga River with the
Kamarkhali-Magura Road as the northern border and the Halifax cut as the
southern border of the project area. The project area is covered with a
semi-pervious clay/silt layer. This upper clay/silt layers increase in
thickness from the Kadhumati River in the east towards the Nabaganga River
in the west. The upper clay/silt layer is underlain by good permeable
layers of sand and gravel. Regional groundwater balance studies (UNDP
1981 and Howard Humphrey 1984) have indicated that these sand layers
(aquifer) offer good prospects for increase of groundwater abstraction.
These regional water balance studies are, however, not sufficiently
detailed to enable a reliabLe estimate of the available amount of
groundwater in specific sub-areas. A hydrological study is, therefore,
provided for with the following objectives:
-   to determine the reliable yield from the potential aquifers under
the project area.
-   to indicate the possible number of tubewells and their distribu-
tion over the project area.
The study is estimated to be completed within 18 months. It would require
about 5 man-months of internationally recruited specialists.
2C.     For the purpose of the study, the consultant shall review all data
and reports which will be made available by BWDB and the Ministry of
Irrigation (MPO). They will further advise and assist in the following
field surveys:
(a) mapping of existing dug wells, shallow and deep tubewells and
observation wells;
(b) indicate, based on the hydro-geological data obtained, the loca-
tions where extra piezometers should be installed to complete the
data base needed for a reliable estimate of the groundwater yield.
A total number of five extra double piezometers, shallow and deep,
can be used;



-45-
Annex 2
Page 10
(c) execute a geophysical survey to locate salt/fresh water interface
in the south and salt groundwater occurrence in the project area
and the thickness of the upper clay layer over the whole projecc
area;
(d) indicate the locations for two pumping tests, prepare drilling
contract documents for test boreholes and piezometers boreholes,
invitation to tender and award of contract;
(e) supervise drilling, for test boreholes and piezometers borehole,
installation of water level recorders and flow recorders;
(f) supervise pumping tests and record all data;
(g) conduct water level measurements in selected boreholes, dugwells,
etc. over the whole project area; and
(h) analyze groundwater samples from selected boreholes over the whole
project area with special regard to the use for irrigation pur-
poses.
21.     The hydro-geological data obtained would be processed with special
reference to transmissivities, storage, leakage factors and all other
relevant characteristics of the individual borehoLes. Further the
sub-surface flow from or to the adjacent aquifer shall be assessed. The
consultants shall assess the effect of groundwater abstraction on the
surface water flows in the Madhumati and Nabaganga Rivers and prepare the
following maps:
(a) contour maps of phreatic groundwater and piezometric surface of
the main aquifer;
(b) groundwater fluctuation;
(c) hydraulic head difference between the upper clay/silt layer and
the main aquifer;
(d) hydraulic resistance of the upper semipervious Layer;
(e) contour maps of main aquifer (depth and thickness of main aquifer
and depth of the impervious base of the main aquifer); and
(f) groundwater quality.
22.     The consultant shall prepare and calibrate a mathematical
groundwater model, capable of simulating the groundwater movements in the



-46-
Annex 2
Page 11
project area for specific development scenarios. In particular, the
consultant shall determine the safe yield from the main aquifer for
irrigation purposes, minimizing the effect of increased groundwater
abstraction on surface water flows and penetration of saline/sweet water
interface in the south. The consultant shall on basis of the model study
determine the number and capacity of deep tubewells in the project area
and their distribution over the whole area.
23.     The Bangladesh Water Development Board will make available staff
selected from the Groundwater Circle as well as from the Directorate of
Planning, to cooperate with the team of the consultant. During the
implementation and development of the model, the consuLtants shall share
their knowledge and experience with BWDB staff and MPO.
24.     The consultant shall submit the following reports to the
Bangladesh Water Development Board.
-   quarterly progress reports;
-   interim report after six months, including the results of the data
review, results of geophysical survey and proposal for silting
test wells and piezometers before starting with preparation of
tender documents for drilling;
-   specifications and tender documents for drilling;
-   draft final report, one month after reception of the draft final
report, the Bangladesh Water Development Board will give its
comments; and
-   final report to be submitted one month after receipt of comments
from BWDB.
F. Aerial Photography
25.     Aerial Photography.  The three subproject areas and the Cumti
Phase II Project area will be covered by aeriaL photography.  The aerial
photography will permit (i) checking the rivers evolution; (ii) determin-
ing major drainage channels patterns; and (iii) assessing the present land
use; and (iv) preparation of contour maps and (v) selection of areas
suitable for irrigation development in Cumti Phase II. Aerial photography
should be taken with sterescopic overlap and, most importantly, during the
proper season, possibly January-February when the sky is clear, he soil
dry and most of the paddy is harvested. Only direct photoprints will be
required although an uncorrected photomap may aLso be useful.



-47-
Annex 2
Page 12
26.     Contour Mapping.  The detailed design for irrigation development
requires the preparation of contour maps at scale 1/5,000, for which
aerial photographs at a scale of about 1/8,000 or larger are needed. The
preparation of contour maps necessitates an accurate ground control work
and the processing of the photographs on stereophotogrammetric machines.
All prints should be processed to compensate for contrast across the
photograph through automatic dodging machine. The ground control work
should be carried out immediately after having the aerial photoprints and
indeed during the dry season.
27.     Contract for Aerophoto and Sterophotogrammetric Work.  The con-
tract would include two phases: (a) the taking of aerial photographs at
scale 1/30,000 over about 250,000 ha total and at scale 1/8000 over about
115,000 ha to be irrigated under the Cunti Phase I sub-project and
Gumti Phase II project; and (b) the ground control works, the
stereophotogrammatic processing and the preparation of maps. The timing
of this contract should be very strict in relation with the season and
with the requirement of project preparation for the Gumti Phase II
project. The taking and processing of aerial photographs, the ground
control work and the stereophotogrammetric processing do not accept second
rate equipment or less than perfect methodology. The tender process
should thus include careful preselection of ;>.d prospective international
contractors.
C. Agricultural and Fisheries Development Programs
28.     The preparation of programs for agricultural and fisheries
development would require:
(a) a determination of the likely sustainable potential in the area in
term of crop, fish and livestock production;
(b) identification of the prerequisites for realizing that sustainable
potential: technological practices, institutional needs (market-
ing, technology development, technology transfer, input supply and
services), infrastructure (roads, irrigation, aquaculture), policy
measures (eliminating hinderances to the adoption of the optimal
mix of crops, to integration of crop/fisheries/livestock
activities, and to the promotion of agricultural practices which
are compatible with the social and economic objectives selected
for each area); and
(c) preparation of an operational time table for bringing about the
changes necessary for achieving the production potential in each
area. Proposed steps would have to be consistent with (i) the
need to protect beneficiaries against the risk inherent in
unproven innovations or those perceived to be associated with fast



-48-
Annex 2
Page 13
changes, and (ii) the requirement that complementary changes or
actions would have to be carefully coordinated.
29.     The programs for agricultural and fisheries development and/or
phases thereof suggested for immediate implementation would be subjected
to the type of evaluation normally undertaken in the context of a
feasibility study. This would include:
(a) review and analysis of available information on agriculture and
fisheries in the area, incLuding information on on-going develop-
ment programs;
(b) define existing cropping practices, extent of use of known
improved technological practices and reasons for lack of use, if
that is the case;
(c) identify proven technological practices available in the country
but not used in the area;
Cd) review the existing institutional capability in the area and
identify and justify any required improvements;
(e)  assess the area's needs as perceived by loca; veople and their
representatives (local government);
Cf) prepare cost estimates for proposed development programs;
kg) provide an economic and financial analysis of proposed programs
along with an assessment of the likely risks;
(h) prepare an impLementation plan, including annual work programs;
and
Ci)  prepare proposals for managing the planned development programs.
30.     The preparation of fisheries development programs would require an
assessment of the production potential of natural fisheries and alterna-
tive for developing aquaculture. Investigations would need to be under-
taken in order to determine:
(a) Species composition of fish and prawn inside the floodplains in
each project area, their relative importance;
(b) water current velocity limitations for fish and prawn to swim
through the regulators and other structures, when opened and
determination of other requirements for fish migration; and



-49-
Annex 2
Page 14
(c) specific periods of time when movement and migration of fish/prawn
into the project areas reach peak Level.
31.     An alternative for compensating for loss of fish from natural
fisheries would be to provide support to aquaculture in ponds and other
permanent waters within each sub-project area. To achieve this, inves-
tigations are necessary on:
(a) number of ponds, their total water area and extent of culturable
area;
(b) determination of the total number of hatchlings and fingerlings
of fish needed to stock annually all available culturable waters;
(c)  determination of size, capacity and structure of fish hatcheries
and rearing stations with recommendation on suitable sites to
locate these in each subproject area; and
{d) identification of fish culture potential and desired enhancement
programs.
32.     The studies would also look into possibilities of reducing poten-
tial Losses from natural fisheries in the process of providing flood
control and drainage facilities. Such Loss of fish production can be
partially reduced, if the regulators and sluice gates are so designed and
operated as to ensure smooth entry of fish and fish fry from rivers into
the available waters within each sub-project area by opening them for
pre-determined periods of time during fish breeding season (i.e. between
May and early August).  Again, during the recession of monsoon waters, the
regulators and structures may be opened, again for predetermined short
periods of time, to allow exits of fish seeking entry into the rivers and
khals outside each sub-project area.
H. Feasibility Study for Cumti Phase II Project
33.     The area proposed for study is prone to flooding from Gumti,
Meghna, Titas, Buri Nadi and Salda Nadi. Along with the Gumti Phase I,
this project would provide an opportunity to address the flooding problem
in the Guwti basin in a comprehensive manner. The area comprises about
93,000 ha bound to the north and west by Meghna and Titas Rivers to the
south by the Gumti River, to the west by the western branch of the Titas
River and to the east by the footslopes of the Tripura Hills. There is
scope for winter (boro) irrigation through pumping from the Meghna. Water
availability in the Meghna is not a constraint for the moment, and is not
likely to become one in the foreseable future. Aerial photography and the
simulation model for the Gumti-Titas basin are required for this study,



-50-
Annex 2
Page 15
and should, therefore, be given priority when scheduling project implemen-
tation.
34.     The primary objectives of the Gumti Phase II Subproject are:
(a) reduction in crop losses due to flooding and impeded drainage;
(b) increase in the area of transplanted rice cultivation in the aman
season as a result of reduced inundation and improved water
management;
(c) increase in the area of boro and rabi cultivation as a result of
improved irrigation facilities and the reduction of the area under
broadcast deep water rice;
(d) expansion of the area under improved rice (and wheat) varieties
following the control of floods and improved water management; and
(e) improvement of agricultural, institutional and physical
infrastructure necessary to materialize the above objectives.
35.     The studies shall include:
(a) review all pertinent available data and identify data requiring
collection or updating;
(b) undertake the necessary topographic surveys, hydrological measure-
ments, agro-economic and socio-economic surveys;
Cc) assess the extent of benefitted area, the potential impact of the
proposed project works on the adjacent areas and the region as a
whole and on existing economic activities (fisheries, etc.),
possible negative effects in the project area and possible
remedial measures;
(d) establish design criteria and planning concepts and preparation
of project lay-outs, engineering designs and feasibility level
drawings of relevant project components. In this respect due
consideration shall be given to:
- the possibility of pump drainage in those areas where gravity
drainage is technically and/or economically not feasible;
- the possibility to improve irrigation facilities through pumping
water from the Meghna and/or Titas Rivers and to convey it
through an improved Khal system;



-51-
Annex 2
Page 16
- the possibility of combining irrigation and drainage pump sta-
tions;
- the design height of the embankments and the associated risk of
failure;
- the special maintenance requirements of high embankments and the
increased damage in case of failure (in particular in those
areas where embankments have to be significantly raised as a
result of river confinement and where the polder inundation
levels will be considerably lowered through pumping);
- the potential for groundwater development and the current
abstractions in the project area;
- assess the need for access and service roads, necessary to
construct, maintain and operate the embankments, structures and
other project facilities.
(e)  preparation of cost estimates of project works on the basis of
recent contract rates, including annual expenditure schedules in
both local and foreign exchange currencies;
(f)  preparation of operation and maintenance schedules, including
staff, equipment and budget requirements;
(g)  preparation of implementation schedules, showing project com-
ponents in quantitative and monetary terms, equipment and staff
requirements and procurement schedules, as well as specifications
for engineering and other surveys required for detailed design and
implementation;
(h)  elaborate on the need and implications of improved water manage-
ment and propose an organizational structure required to introduce
a phased project implementation, institutional infrastructure
(e.g. extension, credit, marketing, etc) and farmers organization;
and
(i)  assessment of project benefits for relevant project alternatives
and the evaluation of project economics, including farm budgets,
internal rates of return and sensitivity analysis.
36.     Preparations for the construction of earthworks (and related
structures where required) shall be immediately made following the
feasibility study and the selection of the optimal plan. This shall
include:



-52-
Annex 2
Page 17
(a) selection of earthworks to be constructed during the first year,
in compliance with the proposed overall implementation schedule;
(b)  detailed engineering surveys, including:
- longitudinal profiles;
- cross-sections, interval between 30 and 60 meter;
- plane table or grid survey of structure sites at scale 1:200;
(c) detailed design of embankments, roads and drains, including the
preparation of provisional land acquisition plans;
(d) preparation of bills of quantities and cost estimates; and
(e) preparation of tender documents for construction.
37.     The field surveys required for the feasibility study would
include:
(a) Topographic Survey
1. Longitudinal profiles of river banks:
- Buri Nadi                     2 x 46 km
- Salda Nadi                    2 x 18 km
- Chungur Nadi                  2 x 22 km
- Bijni Nadi                    2 x 23 km
- Titas upper                   2 x 37 km
- Neghna                            25 km
- Titas lower                       38 km
- Howrah                        2 x 10 km
- Others                        2 x 10 km
Total             395 km
2. Longitudinal profile of roads/railway:
- road Companyganj-Brahmanbaria        30 km
- road/railway Comailla-Akhaura        46 km
- road Companyganj-Nabinagar           28 km
- others                               50 km
Total               154 km
3. Cross-sections of rivers (bank to bank, extended up to
300 m in the flood plain) at 3 km intervals:



-53-
Annex 2
Page 18
- Buri Nadi             16
- Salda Nadi             7
- Chungur Nadi           8
- Bijni Nadi             8
- Upper Titas           12
- Howrah                 4
- others                 4
4. Cross-section roads/railways at 3 km intervals:
- Companyganj-Brahmanbaria       11
- Comilla-Akhaura                16
- Companyganj-Nabinagar          10
- others                         15
5. Cross-section in main drains/khals at 5 km intervals = 40
Total number of cross-section = 151
(b) Hydrological Observations
1. Additional water level observations (daily)
- Kuti (Buri/Salda)
- Bangora (Buri/Oder khal)
- Bayek Rly. Bridge (Salda/Bijni)
- Brahmanpara (Chungur)
- Nemfabad Rly. Bridge (Sonai)
- Bathamata (Titas upper)
- ramkrishnapur (Titas lower)
2. Additional discharge measurements (2-3 times/week)
- Kuti (Buri Branch/Salda Branch)
- Bayek Rly. Bridge 1/ (Salda Branch/Bijni Branch)
- Nemfabad Rly. Bridge 1/ (Soni)
3. Overland gauges (for approx. location see map)
- 5 no's.
4. Continued operation of existing hydrometric stations:
- No. 109
- No. 110
- No. 111
- No. 113
- No. 114



-54-
Annex 2
Page 19
- No. 115
- No. 296
- No. 297
- No. 298
- No. 123
- No. 3 + 3 A
(c) Agro-economic Survey Covering Crops, Livestock and Fisheries
(d) Socio-economic Survey
(e) Navigation
(f) Fisheries
I. On-Farm Demonstration Units
38.       Ten water management demonstracion units each covering an area
served by a low lift pump (10-20 ha) would be organized on farmers' land
following completion of major civil works. The demonstrations would
follow the principles under the existing Irrigation Management Program
(IMP). The purpose would be to train farmers in the efficient use of
water (irrigation and drainage) under varying soil conditions and to meet
the requirements of various crops. This component wouLd be coordinated by
BWDB staff in close cooperation with agencies of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture in the area and development staff of of the local Government.
J. Study of BWDB's Institutional Capability
39.       The review would build on past studies of BWDB.  It would assess
the consistency of their findings, their relevance and the adequacy of
their coverage of the issues involved. It would fill any gaps in informa-
tion and analysis. It would assess the quality and scope of on-going
institution building activities as an aggregate program within BUDB. As a
result, the review wouLd provide a set of recommendations along with a
timetable and procedures for implementing them.
40.      The review would start with a diagnostic analysis of BWDB as a
public development institution, with specific emphasis on: BWDB's obliga-
tions and responsibilities to the country, its organizational structure
and modality of administration and management; the nature of its business;
its legal framework; its relation to other development agencies; its
sources of funding; the extent of its reliance on contracting; its con-
tracting procedures; internal flow of information; channels of communica-
tion and decision taking. BWDB's expected and actual role in project



-55-
Annex 2
Page 20
identification, feasibility studies, project design, project implementa-
tion, project operation and maintenance; administrative and management
practices in BWDB's headquarters and field offices.
41.      On the basis of information acquired in the diagnostic analysis,
an evaluation would be made of BWDB's current capacity to effectively
assume its responsibilities under its current organization, manpower
strength, internal management practices, and the present nature of its
work relations with agencies performing services complementary to its own
or supplying it with needed services.
42.      As a result of this evaluation, recommendations would be made for
desirable improvements along with a timetable and procedures for
implementing such recommendations with minimum impact on other agencies
and national administrative arrargements and practices.  The "package" of
recommendations would provide a basis for improving BWDB's capability in
project preparation, project design, programing construction works, con-
struction management, quality control and operation and maintenance. In
particular, such "package" would:
Ci)    identify tasks for which BWDB should rely on its own
implementation capability, tasks for which it could rely
partially or totally on contractors and consultancy serv-
ices, and tasks which would be best transferred (in an
orderly manner) to other agencies at the central or local
leveLs, or transferred from other agencies to BWDS;
(ii)   compare present staff to staffing requirements implied by
the tasks selected for implementation by BWDB, define
necessary changes, and propose a program (training and
short term interim measures) to overcome any existing
qualitative shortcomings;
(iii)  define major functional job categories for professional
staff (headquarters and field staff) to serve as a basis
for specifying manpower requirements, a manpower develop-
ment plan, and for allocating responsibilities and promot-
ing the concept of accountability;
(iv)   prepare a plan for potential redeployment of staff within
BWDS or their reassignment to other agencies where a need
for their skills is created elsewhere as a result of real-
location of responsibilities between BWDB and other agen-
cies;



-56-
Annex 2
Page 21
(v)    assess existing training activities, programs and
facilities, both under BWDB's management and other institu-
tions of relevance to water development and propose ways
for BWDB to strengthen its staff capability using local
training facilities as well as possible opportunities
overseas;
(vi)   prepare a program for upgrading the internal planning
system with particular emphasis on procedures for integrat-
ing BWDB's work in that of other development agencies
serving the agricultural sector;
(vii)  propose guidelines for selection, coordination and control
of contractors and consultants during project implementa-
tion; and
(viii) provide guidelines for improving budgetary and accounting
practices and financial management.
43.      The final product would be an action plan acceptable to GOB and
IDA which: {i) defines the role of BWDB in relation to national needs
which, given the country conditions and goals, could not be met under
alternative institutional arrangements, (ii) provides proposals, imple-
mentable under country conditions, for improving BWDB's capability to
effectively play that role, (iii) provides a realistic timetable for
introducing specific measures aimed at strengthening BWDB, or redefining
its responsibilities. Administrative and financial arrangements for
implementing those recommendations would be agreed between GOB and IDA
following discussion of the review findings.
44.       The review would be undertaken by a working group consisting of
two senior BWDB engineers officialLy assigned to this review and two
organization and management speciaLists. IDA would assist in reviewing
terms of reference, reviewing interim and final reports and providing
support as required and feasible during the review.



-57-
Annex 3
Page 1
BANCLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
TechnicaL Assistance and Training
1.      BWDB was established in 1972 as a semi-autonomous agency.  It is
managed by a Chairman and five Board Members respectively responsible for
planning, implementation, operation and maintenance, finance, and
4dministration.  BWDB's mandate is to deveLop water resources and improve
water flow for purposes of irrigation, flood and erosion control, town
protection, and river training throughout Bangladesh. BWDB has limited
capabilities for planning, design, and operation and maintenance. This
has been the result of civil service regulations which prevented BWDB from
attraceing, motivating and, thus, retaining quality pLanning and design
staff. This project provides for a temporary solution to this constraint
for the specific purpose of executing project works, while simultaneously,
it provides for establishing a forum to search for a more permanent solu-
t ion.
2.      In order to promote timely and effective implementation of the
project, provision is made for establishing a Project Management Unit
(PMU) under the Chief Engineer Planning. PMU, assisted by consultants,
would be responsible for: (i) assisting field Divisions with planning
project implementation, (ii) undertaking the engineering surveys, founda-
tion investigation, design, (iii) assisting with the processing of tender
documents, bids evaluation and the award of contracts for the construction
of project facilities, and procurement (iv) monitoring progress in the
construction program on behalf of BWDB's management, and (v) quality
control. The Directorate of Planning Schemes I (DPS I) would be respon-
sible for organizing and monitoring the preparation of the. agriculture and
fisheries development plans and for preparation of a feasibility study for
the Gumti Phase II project. PHU and DPS I would be assisted by consult-
ants. In recognition of the extra responsibilities, PMU and DPS I staff
would be expected to assume under the project, they would be given a field
allowance at a rate commensurate with that paid to local consultants for a
maximum of ten days per month. This would encourage direct and frequent
contact between headquarters and field staff and would ensure that the
works and studies being implemented reflect local realities and needs.
PMU and DPS I staff would also have an opportunity to participate in the
training program provided for under the project.
3.       PMU would consist of a Project Manager, a senior design engineer
as a Deputy Project Manager, three design engineers, a planning engineer



-58-
Annex 3
Page 2
and four junior planning and design engineers. This team would be sup-
ported by three surveyors, two draftsmen and eleven support staff (account-
ants, secretaries, clerks and drivers).  PHU would also provide the
administrative set up for training about 18 BIDB staff in the fields of
engineering design, construction monitoring, organization and management
(task identification, work loading and estimating, critical path analysis,
budgeting, proposal writing, interdisciplinary cooperation, quality and
cost control) and planning project implementation (organizing engineering
surveys and investigati'ns, organizing procurement, selecting among alter-
native engineering designs, evaluating proposals from consultants and
contractors), and design of water development projects. Tr-ining would be
in the form of on-the-job training in the context of this project, planned
short term training abroad, workshops and seminars.
4.       Improved work conditions and training provided would make it
easier for BWD8 to retain quality design and construction monitoring. It
is recognized, however, tiat this 'e a short term soLution to the issues
impeding staff motivation in BWDB. Therefore, as an initial step towards
identifying a longer term solution, the project provides for establishing
an inter-agency study group to: ti) identify and provide a ranking for the
reasons underlying the lack of staff motivation in the fields of planning,
design and construction monitoring, (ii) review cases (if any) in
Bangladesh where such limitations existed and were resolved, and (iii)
review other countries' experience, particularly the experience with
establising autonomous planning and design units in such countries as Sri
Lanka, Korea and India, among others. The study group would develop
proposals amenable to implementation with a minimum of disturbance to the
existing institutional arrangements. Such proposals would be reviewed by
Government and IDA. The financial and administrative arrangements for
their implementation would be agreed at that time.
5.      For purposes of project implementation, BWDB would be assisted by
a local consulting firm supported by three expatriate experienced
engineers, preferably seconded to the local firm by an international firm
of consultants with broad experience in the fields of design and construc-
tion monitoring. The following specialists of the local consu.ting firm
would be required for an estimated total period of about 408 man-months of
professional staff supported by three draftsmen, six surveyors and nine
technical assistants over a period of six years.



-59-
Annex 3
Page 3
(i)    one senior irrigation and drainage
engineer (team leader)                   60 man-months
(ii)   three senior design engineers             108 man-months
(iii)  one programming and construction
monitoring specialist                    60 man-months
(iv)   three senior construction engineers :   180 man-months
408 man-months
This manpower input would be complemented by 90 man-months of expatriate
specialist service over a period of 5 years:
(i)    one senior irrigation, flood
control and drainage engineer
(deputy team leader)                     60 man-months
(ii)   one senior design engineer                 15 man-months
iii)  one senior mechanical engineer              15 man-months
90 man-months
6.      In addition the Korean Covernment indicated its intention to provide
about 78 man-months of specialists services over a period of 4 years:
si)   one senior drainage and
flood control engineer                   48 man-months
(ii) one senior construction engineer
(4 seasons X 6 months)                   24 man-months
72 man-months
The Korean specialists wouLd be attached ;o PMU as advisors. They would
be responsible for ensuring that the four junior engineers in PMU par-
ticipate in project implementation and receive on-the-job training as
required. They would develop a program of on-the-job training for BWDB
staff and oversee its implementation. In cooperation with PMU staff, they
would supervise the work of local consultants and provide them vith the
necessary technical support for developing appropriate procedures and for
preparing manuals for construction monitoring and for operation and main-
tenance of project facilities, they would also monitor the quality of
project works on behalf of PMU. The main task of the Korean technical
assistance would be to prepare PHU to assume primary responsibility for



-60-
Annex 3
Page 4
implementing flood control and drainage projects following the present
one.
7.      The local consulting firm would keep PMU informed on progress in
project implementation, incLuding any problems which may cause delay and
alternative ways to address them. In particular, they would submit:
(i) an inception report, two months following the project starting
date. This report would include a detailed work plan (nature
and sequence of operations and the parties responsible for
their implementation), an assessment of the resources required
and recommendations for mobilizing such resources, specifi-
cations for field surveys and special studies needed (hydro-
logical, morphological, modelling, etc), an evaluation of
the pre-construction activities completed and any need for
complementary or corrective measures, an estimate of civil
works that could be undertaken during the first two construc-
truction seasons, and specifzc instructions for records to
be kept in the field and at headquarter.;
(ii)  brief monthly progress reports on the status of procurement,
progress and quality of construction activities and studies,
and major findings of field visits;
(iii) detailed quarterly reports on progress in physical implemen-
tation of the project, financial status, training, and
operation and maintenance of completed faciliti's;
(iv)  annual work program for submission in time for use in the
budget preparation process;
(v)  operation and maintenance manual for each sub-project
(vi)  construction monitoring manual for BWDB; and
(vii) project completion report.
8.       The local consulting firm and its expatriate specialists would be
responsible, in cooperation with PHU staff, for (i) planning project
implementation, (ii) organizing and supervising the necessary engineering
surveys and undertaking design works, and (iii) monitoring construction
activities (timing and appropriateness for intended end use).
9.       BWDB would provide PMU and their consultants with the following
items and services when required:



-63-
Ansnex 4
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Ilementaton Schedule
ak.MOUcU             F   I       Iqg.a          1usa   I a .         11 M W 4* I      I loom       1M42
S l _Q              M  S  3 d    2    -lR  _  t  1 7                             - -1 * 9  -SW  _-   -   -
_  3T E M   M                                 L2 1 1  *l213 4    2123 .  34  12 131 12  3412  31 L
Fk,dM&M0V SIu*vr
AwI                                   : ,.       ,.,  (C   ,ou: I                                     11
F.omy romm iur r
Appuftnt uk
PuiOng Sktbu
Dg. . . .  .. .D. - 1fl1U,
ow CL  1ncT.
Ag-Mlli  DwMnn                 _I ::: -_                            
sMW*g                                        as1I     1                           II .  L.   l          11
fwrct1 rCfso I                                              I.t  I
R T al cwow  ROCx               l  E1                                     t_            ltJ@l  lIt@
4 ON  O I
AwW ucgmpWW
I bonWwft&llll_     
Ombiom. Cords&
AojennSbutre                              
uAW.i &FM a     riammet cl.e
rcfto~a
pwalrin s iht=
PoWCtCoffVW-l Rpoo                                 e g _i _g l _  U II Eol EU  on EU   on E EU   33 Iii     III U ,,   of meU
7CWi        wloagtwZao  1 .baJav(of?uAMAN havs) ?0Jw1lt(mosonmlr)
V.,sE,Swiii-2Ofi3



-61-
Annex 3
Page 5
(i)  available information of relevance to the project:  statis-
tical data, contour maps, Mouza maps, aerial photograph,
feasibility studies and other relevant reports, hydrological
data, records of river stages and morphology plans, rainfall
data, groundwater studies conducted by BADC, MPO, and BWDB;
(ii)  standard design manuals and type plans for hydraulic and other
civil engineering structures and buildings as required;
(iii) professional staff as specified in para 3;
(iv) transport facilities, design equipment, and office supplies if such
items are not included in the consultancy services contracts; and
(v) office accommodation and housing for consultants hired under
bilateral arrangement.



Technical Assistance and Trainipn
(Base Costs)
1985/86       1986/87        1987/88        1988/89       1989/90        1990/91
Han-   Cost   Han-   Cost   Han-   Cost  Han-   Cost   Man-   Cost   Han-   Cost
Mth.  Tk'O000   th. Tk'000  Mth.  Tk'000  Hths  Tk'000  Mths  Tk'000  Mth.  Tk'Q00
Local Consulting Firm
Local Consultants 1/           60    2400    72    2880    84    3360    84    3360    84    3360    24    960
Foreign Consultants ./         18    4500    18    4500    18    4500    18    4500    18    4500    --        --
Korean Technical Assistance 3/   6    1200    18    3600    18    3600    18    3600    18    3600
Training and Study Tour                               3000           3000          3000           3000
Tk 40,000/month including overhead costs, transport, housing, travel, office space, equipment, support services,
insurance and other related incidental costs. These consultants will be assisted by three draftsmen, six
surveyors and nine technical assistants.
2/  Tk 250,000/month including overhead costs, transport, housing, travel, office space, equipment, support services,
insurance and other related incidental costs.
3/ Tk 200,000/month including overhead costs, international travel and insurance. BWDB assumes the cost of trans-
port, housing, office space, in-country travel, equipment, support services, insurance and other related
incidental costs.  These are provided for under the engineering and administration cost category.



-64-
Annex 5
BANGLADESH
TRIRD FLOOD CONTROL ANM DRAINAGE PROJECT
Lud Acauisition Procedur
Aeency
Deputy
Actions                               maisUiowr
1.  Site identified                          I               I    S
2.  Proposal Prepared                        I               1    S
3.  Submitted for JMDD                       I               I            I
Administrative Approval                 I               I    *       I
4.  Approval Received                        I               I    S
*              I            I
5.  Submitted for District Lan d                                          I
Acq. Comittes Approval                 1                     S
6.  Approval Received ft..                   I               I            I
District Land Acq. Committee            I               I S
7.  Submitted to Deputy Comissioner          I               1    S       I
B.  Prelisinary Estimate 1ade                I                            l
by Deputy ComiCsioner                   I       S       I            |
9.   stimate Approved by =DS                 I               |    S       1
10. Fund banded to Deputy Comissioner        i               I    S
11. Sec. 3 Notice of Intent to               I               I            I
Acquire Issued                                  S                    I
12. Objection and ear                        I                            I
13. Sent to XIN. LA & LI for Approval        1       S
14. Approval Received                        I       S       I
*                                ~~              ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~I  I  I
15. Sec. 6 Notice of Acq. Issued                     I       I
16. Tinal  state Had                         I 
17. Omer Notified of Paymnt                  I       S       I           1
18. Pumds Placed for Ower                    I       S       I            I
19. landover Formlities                      I       x       I            I
20. Lan landed over to UDD                   I       S       I            I
21. Land landed over to Contractor           I               I    S       I



Annex 6
Table 1
BAHNALADISH
THIRID PLODD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Z of Total Costs
Category                              uS$                   to be Financed
Civil Vorks                           33.0                   -     5
Equi p.en 1.8                                                   62
Surveys and Investigations             4.0                       9L
Studies                                1.8                       95
Engineering and Administration         4.5                       95
Operation and Maintenance              2.9                        76
48.0                       74



-66-
Annex 6
Table 2
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursment
(USn '000)
Smester Ending                  Per Smester                Cumulative
USS      SDf              uS$     SDR
December 1985                   100                        100
June 1986                       100                        200
December 1986                 1,650                      1,850
June 1987                     1,650                      3,500
Decmber 1987                  5,500                      9,000
June 1988                     5,500                     14,300
Decmber 1988                  6,000                     20,500
June 1989                     6,000                     26,500
December 1989                 6,000                     32,500
June 1990                     6,000                     38,500
Decmber 1990                  2,500                     41,000
June 1991                     2,500                     43,500
Decmber 1991                  1,100                     64,600
June 1992                     1,100                     45,700
December 1992                 1,150                     46,850
June 1993                     1,150                     48,000



11IRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAUINME PROJECT
CraD Acrege. Yield and ?eduetiou
COP                                P                        v* _o                   W
bu&l-kih   mAL        ba    bala  a&LL       k     buLk   a&..
I.  Qi  Mha  1                            (29,500 ha)              (29,500 ha)            (28.700 ba)
A. Au.                          2,000  1,350  2,700    2,000  1,350  2,700   1,200  1,.900  2,210
t. lus (L)                      7,900  1,700  13,430    7,900  1,700 13,430   1.00  2.400  4,320
T. Aq (Rv)                      4,000  2,100 11,600    4,000  2,900 11,000   4,200  3,000  15,960
S. lam                          3,700  1.900  7,030    3,700   ,9.00  7,030   2,600  2,M00   5,G00
T.  .. ti.'                     9,000  2,220 19,990    9,000  2,220 19,980   4,500  2,450 11,025
t. .ho  (WV)                    t,000  2,700 16,200    6,000  2,700 16,200  11,000  3,000  33,000
3. hAG + la                     7,500   2,100 15,750    7,500  2,100 15,750   5,700  2,300 13,110
*4ro                            3,200  3,200 10,240    3,200  3,200 10,240  12,000  4.400  52,600
Wheat                           6,000  2,000 12,000    6,000  2,000 12,000   7,000  2,400 16,600
Jets                            2.800  1,600  4,460    2.600   1,400  4,480   2.800   1,600   5,040
Total               52,100                  52,100                  54,200
Cropping Imteasity 2              177                     177                     189
1. lgeasm Foldor 1                        (36,900 ha)             (36,900 ha)             (36,300km)
3, Ass                          9,700  1,000  9,700    9,700  1,000  9,700  10,500  1,200 12,600
T. A  (Ti)                        400  2,900  1,160       400  2,900  1.160        0.0  3,600  3,040
3. Aua                          2,150  1,200  2,560    2,150  1,200  2,580   1,550  1,400  2.170
t. Ams (L)                     15,000  1,300 23,400  I.000  1,300 23,400  11,500  1,500 17,250
T. Ams (IT)                     1,100  3,200  3,520    1,100  3,200  3,520   7,500  3,500 26,250
loro                           17,000  3,200 54,400   17,000  3,200 54,400  16,000  4,400 79,200
Wheat                           1,700  2,000  3,400    1,700  2,000  3,400   2,500  2,200  5,S30
Jet*                            1.650  1,300  2,145    1.650  1,300  2,145   1.650  1,400  2,310
Total               51,700                  51,700                  54,000
CToppia  Tatensity 2              140                     140                     149
1lt. Ilsdhinati-Uahaaas                   {(38,000 ha)            (33,000 ha)             (37,200 ha)
D. Ana                         6,500  1,00   6,500    6,500   1,000  a,.00  11,600   1,200 13,920
S. hau                        10,SO   1,200 12,600   10,500  1,200 12,600   8,000   1,450 11,600
T. lua* (L)                      900  1,300  1,170        900  1,300  1,170   3,900  1,600  6,240
T. &ma  (my)                      -      -      -         -      -      -      3,600  3,700 13,320
3. Ana * Aas                  12,000   1,600 19,200   12,000  1,400  19,200   4,600   1,600  8,280
Wheat                          3,000  1,100  3,300    3,000   1,100  3,300   3.500  1,300  4,550
Jute                           3,500  1,200  4,200    3,500  1,200  4,200   3,500  1,350  4,725
pulsas                         6,500    400  3,400    6,500    400  3,400   9,000    500  4,500
Oilseeds                       7000    400  2,00        Z000    400  2,600   _,LM       500  4,000
Total              53,900                  53,900                  55.700
Croppima ltensity 2             142                      142                    150



-68-                              ||slL«
Table 1
gin.  ml           . MLn    alt l.               nim
local uf lte              13.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   18.C0   10.0    10.,
Iat.watn t.ual Imfiatiem    *.3    7.6     3.0    5.0      2.0    6.0      3.0
(S)
hchm. hlate               29.0    32.0   33.0   33.5    34.0   34.0   34.0
(WVSJ)
Ike Vorld Smak
hul, Jmuuq 31, 1"S
2/11/85



WAME
Third Flood Cutrol ad hralap
Ecomic price of Padty
11   mi   m1   191  lm   lmu  ImO   Im aIz   1993  1M   rm
- - -   4 - -   .   - -   9 . .  ,...  ----     @ ----    - -----_        
That St hod., FOB l3alkok 1/
Coadt IU 1US per RI ICY basis)               255      224       221       249       279      301       330       323      325       323       320      312
Cuist FY85 US pn MI (FY haslED                        241       227       239       263      23        317       330      323       326       323      321
Eschage late Ilk per UStI                             29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0
Coast Fr35 Tk per NI                                 40        1572      6940     7621      3368      913      952       912       9441     9372      9303
I Adijstht Factor        0.9 2
CIF Chittapa                                         6232      59)5      626       65t      7531      8270      8624     8560      1497      8413     8372
Plus: H1eilug aid Trauspurt
ktee  Fort and Rhrket 3/                       1150      2250     1150      2I50      I150      1150     2150      1150      1150     1)50      1250
Mt Price                                              7432     7065      7396        "9    U1         9420     9774      9120      9647     9f        9522
Les: ProtK ssin  CEst 41                              580       S0        580       50       5         580       580      500       580       560      58t
Er-Nill Price o4 Rico                                  52      645       6316      7421     8101      340       9194     9130       067      "005     3942
Equivalet Price of Pady           0.47               4591      4345      4567      4977     5428      5923      6160     6117      6075      6033     5t91
Less: HIdli.,q ad Transport
betwm   Mill and Farqate 5                      110       110       210      320       110       110      210       110       110      110       110
Fuseate Price, lk per RI                             4411      4235      4451      4867     5312      5013      6050     6007      5165      5923     583
faraqate Price, lk per Kg                             4.46     4.23      4.46      4.37     5.32      5.81      6.05     6.01      5.97      5.2      5.1E
1  Vorld lak. EPKOC, Jhauary,  9.
21 lased on FV76-f1`14 relatioeusip btween Import Unit prices and reference quality prices.
3/ lamed e10 It Projett SMO4343-109.  UNa-traded cost to nieolt. have been adjusted by Stf of O.8.
41 let of valve of by-produts, adjusted by SCF of 0.3.
5/ Average distate issued to be 10 miles.  Adiusted by SF of 0.3.
0)113185



Third Floe Cutrel NE hreiap
fcisic trice of Seat
1`94     59.      Iu        5,37     5n       Im        im       mai       T12      ITs      Im        Im
S, I. uwe$, Thader ly It
Cue  5964 NO1 e   ? ICy thniu               110      557      141       141      143      14        149      l4        147       147     166       145
Cost FM  IIS pw er  Inr  basis)                      164     1553       1        IU       149       141      149       149      14       14?       I46
lactp late I1l W   Oll                              29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0
gust Fm   lt pwr IT                                 416      4430    4M         436      4321      4335     431       4307     4234     4261     4233
* Ujiitit Futer          1.121
CIF Cbitta_                                          242     4373      4721     4737     4733    4769       4164     4716      4712    4I7       466
ties:    "list aid Irauwt
ko1  Pwt  ad Ibktt 31                         1155     110      IISO      1150     1150      1150     1150     1150      IIS     1150     1550
N  llet price                                        3M   1023        5611      5661     593       59       5114     Sl    562          537      Sll 1
Less:  iNlig ad Tramit
betum  lUket NE Fmaeate 41             1           11  II0      550       III      110       III      110      110       I0       fit      ltO
kadiestW  fPrate fPice, tn la  IT                   62       3913     5761      3771     5S        360       60      5776      3752     5727     3701
Les: lau l of Foreip Ittr 1525                       314      296       2        m        2         29       2n       23        20       236       2
Faregate Price, it k r WNI                          5916     5617      1173     546      5503      5513     5554     541       S465     5440     5416
Pagate Pice, nb p   Kg                              5.97     5.62      5.47     5.49     5.50      5.52     5.51     s.4n      5.46     5.44      5.42
It bald take. (FU, lauuay, aM.                                                                                                                                         0'I-
I1 hs  a  mOM 3  relatlmship betwu ieWrt wit prites aid ref ernce palty pricn.                                                                                          *
31 144 e      IN  11 PreJKt U1414340-111.  ba-trded cost cposets  avet bets adjusted by SU  of 0.13.
41  eige diteme asund to be 10 ailes.  Ujmste  by 5t of 0.3.
OhIO/U



11AKUK
Third Flud Cintral mW braluaq
Euuoic Price of Jute
2134    I2l        nui       MY6       m 2m 19            no      29I       1n2      I"93      294      1m
3u1ldish Sites, Fu COiultt"           alea  It
Comui  1u14 V8 W  NT ICY basis)             533       42       36        274      202       271      260       261       261      262      262       263
Coast fM5  S1  per Ni IFT basis)                     4U3       369       301      29        271      267       262       262      263      263       214
Emchmp Rate I1l PK r16)                              29.0     29.0    2n.0       29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0     29.0      29.
Cost   Is It Wr NT                                  14419    20lll      140       39       MY       7735      7566     7604       621     1639      7665
* Udjustmt Facto         1.0 21
CIF Clittau /Chaila                                 14019    207l2      3710      3M       805      7135      75U       7604     1621     763?      7656
Less: NudIlq ag Truwrt
lt,.  Fort NA  Sture S                        140       146       146      140       1440     140       140      1460      1460     1440      1430
Narbet Price                                        12559     9l        IM       4932      6597     6275      6126     6244      6161    1in        6296
Lon: Processing,    le1.  ad Tripert
ktu. Nartet mW irvgate t  t                    14"      1440      140      140       14t      1ow       1440     1440      140      1440      1440
hailutud Ferqate Price, It per IT                   21191    732        5U40     5492      5157     435       46U      4704      4721     4139      4756
Ujusted 1"1111m  Efticiecyv        0.
fareate Price, T k r W   Aln                                  6247      4472    4n33       4125      30       374       3763     3177      3712     33
Faragate Price, It pW   q K.g                                 6.25      4.61     4.3?      4.23      3.31     S.15     3.76      3.73     3.79      3.31
11 oid gol. EPIW, Jary [M. 1if
2V  ks   as F176-F14 relatiu ip ktue  npWt sit pricn  ad refenrKe pal1ty pricee.
St Na  .a   M   Suall kk s froject S(4d15" ).  b-trAd cat c emeil ha ve km djuted bl  SU.                              . of U
02,2,ln



IIUAKSH
Tkird Flood Cotrol and grainage
..-------- .         . .....   . .... 
Econosic Price of Oilseeds
1984     19115     3U        1987?    1i95      1939      390      1991      1992     1993      1994    1395
Soybeans, US, CIF Rotterdan It
Const 1IS3  USO per HI ICY basis)            202      253       248       244      244       243       241      240       239       239      238       237
Coast FY5S US5 per HI IFT basist                      24N       252       248      247       245       243      242       241       240      239       239
Exchange Rate 1Ik per USI)                           29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0
Coast FY9S  Ti per hi                                7791      7301      1202     7153      7100      7049     7012      6M        69S      6942      6919
x Adjustaiot Factor       3.3 21
CIF Chittagongl/Chalna                              1013       9491      9343     9294      9230        44     9116      9065      9055     9025      8995
Plus: Handling and transport
betit,e  Port and Market 3/                    1250      1250     I20       1250      1250     1250      1250      1250     1250      1250      1250
Market Price                                         11385    10741    10413    10346    10480    10414    30361    10335    30303    10215    10245
Less: Processing, Handling and Transport
between  arket and Faregate I/                  IIS0     1130     1160      1160      1130     1140      1360      1140     1140      1360      1130
Unadjusted Faregate Price, Ti per NT                 10225    t95I       9455     938&      9320      9254     9204      9115      9145     9115      9085
Plus: Value of Oilcake 4/                             12.0     1220      1220      1220     1220      1220      1220     13220      220      1220     1220
Farsqat. Prite, lt per Nl                            31445    3O060     10473    1004    30540    10474    1042         1035    103635    10335    I0305
Fuaapte Price, TI per Kg                             11.45    10.80    10.61    10.A1    10.54    10.47    10.43    10.40    10.31    10.33    10.30
I/ World Dank. EPKO, January I98.
21 lased on FY11-FY1  relationthip keteen export unit prices ud referane quality prices.
t /amed on lot Sall SIciets Project SM14115-1Sl.  lsb-traed cost copontats have bm  adjusted lv SC  of 0.1.
4/ CaWe recovery rate 0.46.  Adjsited by SQf 41   .o
eI/IO/H



DANGLAKSH
third Floid CGotrol and Drainage
Ecoanaic Price of Urea
9,M      19s       1116      1987     1Me9    Iffl        1990     1"1       IW2       1993     1194      IM
Urea, lagged, FOB Europe I/
Const It94 US1 per Ml ICY basis)             171       181      204       213       223      233       243       24      247       249       251      253
Ceost FYS5 US1  per ml Ify basls?                      177      193       210       21?      229       239       245      247       249       251      253
Exchange Rate Ilk per USII                            29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0
Canst FY85 I& per III                                5130      5610      6078      6350     6634      6931     7111      716U      7227      7285     7344
x Adj;steent Factor       1.4 2/
CIF Cttlttagoi                                        119 1  71855       8510      6890     9218      9703     9955    100'6    10117    1019        10212
Plus: Handling and Iransport
betveen Pcrt and IarLet 31 41                   150       750      750       750       750      750      -750      -750     -750      -750      -?50
NIrIet Price                                          7931     3605      9260      9640    10038    10453      9205      9286      9367      9449     9532
Plus Handliog and Transport
bttween WIraet an  raragate 5!                  190       1S        IS0      180       ISO       [go      180       180       10       190       Igo
Farsqate trice, Tk per Ml                            1111      1795      9140      9920    10211    10633       9135     9461      9547      9629     9712
FaQegate Price, 1 per kg                            8.11      8.78      9.44      9.82    10.22    10.63       9.39     9.47      9.55      9.63     9.71
1   orld liank. EfbCE, Jnuuay 1M.
2/ fated on FY7- FV84 relationship betute  ioport uoit prices and retfereKe quality prices.
3/ lased on Swdb Small Schemes Project SM14815-1D0.  Noa-traded cost copmpnents baYe been ad justed bI SCf  of 0.8. 
4  It is assumed that by 1"91 l.qladesh will becu a oet exporter ol hen.
51 13Sed oa BAK  costs bet*"* primarr distributia. poiot and Upzila sales center, plus haadliaq aAd traasport costs to laragate                                           BK
Adjutted by SCF of 0.8.
01110195



Tfird Flow  Cutrol ii  kaimige
. ...... ........... ...._.._ 
[t(colt Price of i
111 1 9 l3S        It3         "  I9            lm lip   199       1991      19Z2     193       Im19      Is
I,  Fog Vaceuvur Il
Cost  14 Wa    wr E1 JCT basis)               64                 93        94                 96        91        97       91        91       91        91
Cost FTY5 USO per Ni IF1 basis)                        is                       9     5       96        9?       9?        91        91       91        91
Iacha,"I  hst IIt for 1U0)                           29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      N.0      29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0
Ctmi ft5 1p I f 111                                   2477     246       2125      2154     216       2012     23Z1      2321      2321     2M1       2327
* Adjissto t Factor       1.4 21
(IF Chittagog                                        301       352       3115     MS1    31           3931     396       39J       393      31611     39fl
pltu: NiAlial aid Irsiusper
bote * rt ledl ilet  1l P0                                1A       150       15        150     719        15        15       m         150       75<
blidt PrIce                                          4216      402       4565      4N0      4646      4Ut      41"       410       41       470       41"
Pigs:  adliog       Irauspat
ilt.t  Exarit VW Forlate I!                     In        IN       In        IN        IN       In        IN        IN       IN        ItO       In
Farsgate Price, Ik per I                             436"      42        4145     435        S26      4U       4U        411       IO       411_        4I
fmogate Price, Ik Wr g                               4."   64.5          4.74     4.9       l.63      4.67      4.69     4.19      4.3n     4.19      4.39
It sIi SIai. DtKI, Jwry 15.
2  Based s  FV14-flIO relatims,ip ktw.t  iqwt wit prices   d referume Wlily prfc".
3t ksaed a  hA   Wl Sck.s Projet S1I4ISUI.  batraId  cost cumla                    s   at lkm. adjusted if SC   I0.I.
41 laiN  s  00K  costs k te pisw u  disItstiMi   toist   d Ipaila sales cuter, ples baidlaug a   trahswt coats to faragate
Adjusted by W   of  ,.8.
wI!q



BANGLANESH
Third flood Control and Drainage
Econooic Price of TSP
1994     1985      1986      1997     1998      1999      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995
TSr, FaB US Gulf 11
Coast BS4 US§ per HI (CY basis)              131       143      151       15       15S      161       165       165      165       165       165      165
Const FY85 US0  per  r (FIY basis)                     139      148       153       157      160       164       166      166       166       166      166
Exchange Rate Ilk per U11S                            29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0     29.0      29.0
Coast FYS5 1k per nT                                 3993      4294      4450      4550     4652      4756      4809     4909      4009      4909     4809
x Adjuctaent Factor       1.4 2/
CIF Chittagoag                                       5590      5998      6230     6370      6513      6659     6732      6732      6732     6732      6732
Plus: Handling and Transport
between Port and Narket 3/                      750       750      750       750       750      750      710        750      750       750       750
Narket Price                                         6340      6749      6990      7120     7263      7409      7492     7492      7492      71482    7492
Plus: Handling and Transport
between Narket and faragate 4/                  190       IO0      100       190       190       ISO     10        180       JS0      ISO       180
Faregate Price, It per nr                            6520      6928      7160     7300      7443      1559      7662     7662      7662      7662     7L62
Farugate Price, It per Kg                            6.52      6.93      7.16     7.30      7.44      7.59      7.66     7.66      7.66     7.66      7.66
11 Kold Bank. EPOC, January, 1985.
21 lased on FY76-F184 relationship between import unit prices and reference quality prices.
31 lased on Bwdb Seall Scheees Project SARI4815-ID).  Non-traded cost components have been adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
4 /ased on MDC costs between priasry distribution point and Upzila sales center, plus handling and transport costs to farigate                                             '-I
Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.                                                                                                                                                 crl
01/10/95                                                                                                                                                                   m  R
IOD 0



BMNCADG8H
Third Flood Control and Dzainage Project
Economic Benefits and Costs - G40ti Subnroiect
(Tk Million)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996-2021
1.  Production Benefit vith Project            545    505    518    556    599    646    724    775    825    875    924               924
2.  On-Farm Cost witb Project                  240    243    245    247    249    250    246    327    327    407    328               326
3.  Cross Benefit with Project
(1) - (2)                                 305    262    272    309    351    396    478    448    498    468    0j                597
4.  Production Benefit vithout
Project                                  545    505    518    556    599    641    668    646    660    655    651               651
5.  On-Farm Cost without Project               240    243    245    247    249    250    246    247    247    293    247               246
6.  Gross Benefit vithout Project
(4) - (5)                                 305    262    272    309    351    396    422    417    413    362    404               405
7.  Project Benefit (3) - (6)                    0       0      0       0       0       0      56     31      85   .106    192         193
.Mu    urn    a==    =an    =mm    wm          am=    =m      =mum    iu      uiN
8.  Investment Costs                             1     31      93    100       77      28
9.  o08  Costs                                                          0       1       6       8       9      9       9       9         9
10. Total Project Costs (8) + (9)                1     31      93    100       78      34       8      9       9       9       9         9
-=  ..     .       .                            u ...    .. "u    s"    =m  mw  =  mm    mw  ..  mm 
11. Net Project Benefit (7) - (10)              -1    -31    -93   -100    -78    -34         48      22      76      97    183        184
j/  CnA  costs include the replacesent cost of the pump.                                                                                              'oI
02/11/85



BANGLADEBR
Third Flood Control and Drainane Project
Economic Benefits and Costs - Wfaonaon Suborolect
('1k Million)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996-2021
1.  Production Benefit with Project          44    434    451    489    531    578    658    711    763    814    865              J65
2.  On-yarn Cost with Project                219    222    225    227    228    230    226    276    277    277    277             277
3.  Cross Benefit with Project
(1) - (2)                                245    211    226    262    303    348    432    435    486    537    588             588
4.  Production Ben fit witbout
Project                                 464    434    451    489    531    578    600    596    592    588    584             584
5.  On-Yarn Cost without Project             219    222    225    227    228    230    226          26    227    227    227        227
6.  Gross Benefit vitbout Project
(4) - (5)                                245    211    226    262    303    348    374    370    365    361    357             357
7.  Project Benefit (3) - (6)                  0       0       0      0       0      0      58      65    121    176    231        231
Una     mm    on=    =m    WON   Mmu-    man    man    mno m=                m.      n
8.  Investment Costs                            1     19      70     99      81     33
9.  06&  Cot.                                                          I     1       2      3       4      4       4      *         4
10. Total Project Coats (8) + (9)              1      19      70    100      82     35       3       4      4       4      4         4
mo.   Wm=m       .    Wmu=    own    Won    am.   =mm.    =um    man    =am          mMn
11. Net Project Benefit (7) - (10)            -1    -19    -70   -100    -82    -35         55     61    117    172    227         227
02/111/85                                                                                                                                          mu



Third flood Control and Driainae Ploieet
leCoQiC Benefits and Costs - Pebuhsti-Nab santa Jubproiect
( k Million)
1212.  §1186   1987 L Il8   11       1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   199S   1996-2021
1.  Produection Bnefit with Project         298   .274    276    292    310    330    358    373    389    404    419          419
2.  O-farm Cost with Project                21Q8    i      108 18  0      109    109   La      126    126    121   12         126
3. koss Benef it witb tro ject
(1) - (2)                               191    166    168            2       222                   26 3    278    293      223
4.  Production  eanefit without
Project                                298    274    276    292    310    330    340    338    336    334    332          332
S.  On-Farm Coet without Project            108    108    108    108    109    109    108    121    128    128    128           121
6.  Gross Benefit without Project
(4) - (5)                               191    166    168    184    202    222    232    210   .209    206    20A          191
7.  Project leasfit (3) - (6)                 0       0      0      0       0      0      18     37      54     72     89        89              t
now    mum    man.   mum    mumu=     n mum Om      m=    mum    mum      --M      =mu
S.  Investment Costs                          0      18     65      81-    70     29
9. 03&  Costs                                                        1      2      4       5      6      6       6      6         6
10. Total Project Cost  (8) + (9)             0      18     65     82      72     33       5      6      6       6      6         6
man   =MuM    mm    Omu      man    M==    =m.   mun    MUM    mum    mum"a
11. Net Project lguefit (7) - (10)            0    -18    -65    -82    -72    -33        13     31     48      66     83        83
02/11/85                                                                                                                               ,      c



rida  uos cawltzig                                       at.t
tw   1     g- Sm41 birsi
NJi Is w Usa. ,t no PrIiet
~~estu              0M~~~Ovev. 0E554 Wait               Fe.o Nth bupit
tatl   fries    OWNg                      taRt        o                        vats                               -do*6
ltilt   dmEta    WMl       4     0711       waslal   Was6   kg    EnS          w lse    WIN   kg    Ilk$
L stiLt        kg       4.31        U1    13tO    ots3   Nlog          s.0c    1ao    as5   as             e.g    twa    VA    a
I. mIU         kg       4.31       Edt1   513   331.0  IDLi            6.21    tin    W.   lSILt           Los1    EN    I3.A   316.0
i. bairn1      Ig       4.30        iti    nt   31ate   111.           g.gt    mn    no9..  tilL?7         O.ti    so.   eIe   gg
I. aamii.u     kg       4.3        LOS    1O3    IAn.    111e          o.tg     meo   m..    we.           Los      m     tug     am..
:. mitt        11       e3         LU      253   sot  rng,.            sa4    2an    usL.  aM.             o.a3      o9  3u1s   14.6
Lm opne        Ng       0.31       LII    213    43te   IUJ.i          4.86    VW0   43.9   EVAO           LI3I    an    e.g   XOA
r  me ama      og       4.30       01      li     gagI   ua.o          I.a      an"    o16e   ma.o         Lao   2i0    311.o1  13aa
Oro            kg       4.55       LOU     :  32W    5.    IELi        0*       in    20   213.14          L34    440  1tOLS  4,1SE1
Ted Pasa                                          205.) tlILt.                         RE1).)  SItES.                     3411.5  52.)
mod             NO       4.3        LBS    203    XPL9I lO               Ei      30 LI                     La6 2  3L   LO 2  Cm    0.0   593.5A
Ade             4f       4jU        LU0    I1,4    13.0   614.4         LU0       NO    :3.5   621.4        LN      tI.   114.  0 1I.2
o4at                                                        ant                                 33iSE                              Snal
Psay ILL)
505t           4        4.6        LU3       a     SO.   SIPF          L33             IEA    SIO          L.I        USO          R."
Seat           kg       i.3a       LU3        0     e.g    ILi         LI5         a     LE      LE        LU1        0     4.0    4.3
VIP            4t        .13       0.35       0     LO      LO         IL3I       a      e.I     to.       LB         0     LI    Lu6
*              kV       1.6.3                IS    0.0      0.0        LZ         0      o.o     to        0.21       0     totsIL
traw           I4        4II       ox5        a     E.0      LI        LUS        0      e.g     tO        L2?        I     tE     ame
LaOwE atuday           N1.M        LU5      121    ge    ZtLo          L3u    Ino    to        210.4       La1    1le    sg.   sa1ge
tSlSstU      pie        Dii        0.33      20     1.4   itOA         LUS       30      i.E    P.0       IL"        n      Lg   ELM
PaSy ILL.)
tsI            4          U        0.45      23    11.5    CEI         LU        S      1t5      LI.       LO        a      4.1    Ste
fir            4        Lid        0.45      is    ILl5  ill.)         LU         70    St.)   El?.3       LUH       00    ILl2   1.6
Iv              t       4.is      0G4        45    50.,   ie.1        Lto        *0    50L0    iii         tLO       u      to0   ti
W              4        Lat        LU4       20     Li0   it?          LU4        30     0.5    1.2        Lu        31    t.4  1.u
baseG          Is       LII        LU4      36    12.       31J        Las       35    23.0    32.0        LUB      la6   ILIO    5.3
Lowst!       flAI      U.N         LII      170    10L5   511J         ILU       570    701,   131.1I      LU       III    as.  013.31
OAitk ?!     gait      ILE         OA4      2M      tOt S              to4       a       to    t4.5        LSR       S      t.S   67.
Oatsbspe5!lo 1        aLs          La2        *     a.o      6.4        La         S     Li    26.3        OIS        a     L1    La
Faitl mEgi  vll of      11.        0.23       5     Li    11.9         La2         t     Li    OS.O        LU0        I     LI   21.
rash LUtE.
IaS            4        L.4l       La        M3     iI      3165       LU         U      La    5.1         L4U       a0    51.   31.u
4"     t        4.20       0.21     too    3.0   SiLT1          L21      tO    23.0   251.?        L4I      I2S    30   231.a
WN             4        4.33      ELa        ad    16.2     6.09        LU7      aE    50.5    ati         LIe       70    tLI tus
*              it       L2U         Lia       e    SNA      M.0        LV2        60    I3    SIO          LIe       a     n.e   ?1.11
5.w5           4        LIS        EIP      no4  ISLO    .11.          oO?7    35   ILO         55.5       5.1      11W   SEA   2:L
Labo 1,      M",       21641       *.       IN     39.4   2.01          L.-      SM     LIE   2r.i         LOI       20   ISLE  PE11
lbitsd,      eel?fi    3W00        L=        =l     LI    J9.2         L'1    22         5.0    P.2         LU       aS    IL0   562.A
P"Utst         ta      MAESW       0.1        o     tO      Lo         L.         5      e.g     o.o       LiK        E     t.4S tLm
aatsbaDom"St kg        J5.40       LI1        a     LS       LIg        Lit        I    Li    DA           LU         S     LI   26.5
fielt wag   ASIla      "L"3        g.It       I     0i    4It          LIS         I     LE    01.1        .1,8       E    0.1   50.3
paw spok
kmA            14       LN         LEO       a5      -3    512         L"q       a       15     22.2       LU        2      0.5 4M
W"a            it       4.30       4.69     ISOl    SI.?    31.0        0,8      M5    IL?    N.E          LU        M     !11.0  32.3
WV             kg       LII        LEO       70     6.1    iLl         LEO       70      ' 6  33.0         LU3       Fe    nA    IL"5
W              4         .4   L     OO~A     so      Id     2.0.EO               3       L 14.6  LU   .  14 93       34   1ST0     lE
NWt            Is       LIS        LU       me    G.E        Li         L"       in     gig      *j        L3U      i0    IIL0   15.3
Las t!      nowa        N.MO       1.1      200    ILD    911.0        LEO       S1    ILO       1.E1      LIE      Ml0   11.4  W7A3
MSkile       pa gr     3N.         L"O       25     Li    MA.           Le"        3     Li    SE.1        0.34     23      LISUl1S31
dasten         S.      M7."        LIT        I     Li    2gj          L"          I     LI    X3.         LU6        2     L?EULM
MtWboff" v h    1LW                L."        0   LI6  LJ               LEO        I   0.1  NJ.1    LU       S   LSWAS3
RaetNs Irgib 4        63k.OIL      LER        I       1    ?.1          LEO        S     LI    lEE1       ILU         S    6.37.3
so
Obils          of       0.36       LII      Ii!    30S   14.0          L16       as5   3.0   t54.E        L1.ie     03    2.    1617.31
*e             I4       4.50       0. 16     70    11I2    atE          Li6       To    lId2    41A        L1        00    3.0     LU01
ip             14       4.13       0.50l     so    6LO    26A4          LI6       6     i.E    3.0         8.10      101    NEL   41.31
BP             4        1.24       LI6       S0     3d2    06.4        LI6       N1    S2    tog4         0L2        30     La.43.41
flaw           he       LI3        L16      g4     a  o 1v.IL           La       Im    11.41    Mls        *.10     S"   sotu    DA
tier II      awf       S1.M        L16      IO    MA.   INA            LIS       as    lIe0   I31E         4.510    NO    tO    UMN
MIl!? M1pr             3.5C        La        2*     5.2     v.0        o.a6      a       3d2    ug         0.1       20     41   u0.0
maw e rtaq.sh at.    30.3          La6        0     to      LB0        LII6        I     L3    SEO         O1         I     LO   U3.N
PIddlingI    4 gta    EPINI        Lii        I     L26   ItO          La6         I     0d     X10.       LU2        I     Li   3.3
hE.
lNu      te    4       U.W         LO        IS     LS    4            LO .       NO    0.1    4114        LU0       so     0.66.3
WM             kg    liI    LW    at  LUILO                            LW    a5   0.2.?L    L4    AD   4. 03.11
IN             kg       4.33       LW        31     LI      66         La        3       I.6     0.6       4.11      3      2.4    1.11
IF             kV        214       LU        IS     LO0      LI        LU         H      eA      to        0.A6      aI     I2    LEe
now            U        LO         EU6  SW.  NIA  lie                  LE   SI  3DA   IO                   Lo  us   MA.  ZaB
tdar i      easyf       I."        LU       sN      IL.0    3.0        LW        Mb     MA.    35          0.6      210    26.    94.3
11lISck!     paIr      3.40        LU0       15     2.0    30.0        LE        S        I8   ]LO         LAO       33     Lo3am
PgUe ILL..1                                               2120..3                             2411.                              230.3
Pak ILtL E                                                53111,1                             ML"                                lil1j
Pawr CIA. I                                               2300.El                             2212.124                            CLII
I'lw  Sits)                                                911L1                                .37.4                            OlaF
.ftf                                                      IlLS?                                AE116?                             410.47
not  aom Far Cpu)                                         131f                                1714.3                             31.0
Iwn                                                                                            ULM                                13.24
IS itrad Ste io zKof the ato labs vaqev.
21 UrAw ball s MLt d tt teal tarn .wu..ram.
3d BeWaU EN ame lM 5 I AL.M
45 how  iaB.Wf    1 a           s
Itl      awg  Ol tse   J



tars Sspt - NamW Mompejt
I61'k two6 Eatat FMU Menc)
trust                IS..~~~fvr Isthd mi tat                   etoo lath Preject
wat    trace      crapsd                     '425          onu                       eels      creed                       v
612 MUON)  6404         0      62 it        f aetahi    4'e     4g     (It)      irmoaIhh   t*i64     I;    (Ti)
&I'viluductt
S. eit.        4         0.34       0.22     am      32to    1171.0        0r.      Ig 6604   3      rL. 63. is,2         23      020.0  1006.0
1.  .0.        Al       4.31        6.0)    292       29.0   12247         6.02     2404    29.4   2C4.          0.63    03    :14.6    4IL0.2
3  m L'        kg       4.36        6.0?     I30      3.0    34i.2         Li?      1201    14.4   U12.2         0.3s    2466    70.4   302.0
7. m           IIaC     4.30        0.31    I31   714.0  22422             1.11     2300   114.4  3242.2         0.3      6160   170.6  2451.
T. meusIN       kg        4.20        O.34     220  0 6IS      310.4         L.04     3204    I20.0   1504         6.3      236    173.   37C.5
tia miiUi       to        0.20        0.46       4      0.0      LO4         L0          I      0.3    6L4         0.60        0     0.0      0.0
laro            4o        4.20        6.33    m2u   11760.0  514.0           4.55     200   17N4.0   540.0         0.19     4460   2500.0  221.2-6
*atal PaMr                                            213.0 2Ism.                            367.6  22222.                         441.0  29973.1
Sunt             so        4.00        0.06 30      2 2013.0   4110.0         0.60     200     13,6.    430         3.66     UP0   270.0   790.0
jat              4I        4.601       0.3      0260    4L0    32IL9          0.0   12340    05.2   312.4           4.00    :646      34.0   443.2
slowS                                                           14024.5                                 24214.5                               2W
I.Iffout
tide1 6LLI
["sdo           Is        4.111       0.39      U      132    2324           L.39       fl    33.2  122.04         .0.        a      34.   210.4
trea            kg        4.26        4.2         I     0.4      4.0         0.39        a     4.0    4.46         0.44        0     0.0    0.04
TV              4o        4.1         0.9        0      0.4      0.0         0.39        I     0.0     LU          0.0        0      0.0    0.00
Pr              14        2.24        0.3        6      0.0      0.4         0.3         0     0.0     LO0         4.46        0     6.      0.00
EAse.           kg        0.61        0.31       I      0.0      LO.            1     0.39L            L0.0    0         0.    0     LI1    L.6
Letw 2)      swmlot      26.3         0.39      110    412.9    20.9         0.2       210    4C.   203.92         0.6       :24     14.   221.20
0022.0 2V    FM,         S0.3         09        3a      7.3    111.0         0.2        20      7.0  027.46        4.40       20     LI   220.00
PAdoy IT.L.2
ameg            14      -4.00         09         Zs    24.0    50.0          4.0           2 4.6L   00.00          0.42       3     3.3    46.00
fta             0,        4.26        L.3        a     29.3    23.6          0.39       54    2.1  120.02          0.42       70    ML?   MIS3
T01             04        4.23        0.59      14    27.7      7.1          0.39       30    27.1   73.2          0.42      40    24.4   02.73
5               II        3.24        0.59       20    62.0    31.2          0.19       20     12.0   30.2         6.42       24     4.2   2617
Osme            to        021I        0.1      10    5035.0    411.3         0.1      100    20.0    44.23         0.42      so    26L.    20.75
LOte It       "arSa      26.40        0.59      20     624    29L3           0.3       246    024   190.           0.4  241      1 93 .3  211.301
002K.021      pair       20.30        0.1       32    23.0   244.7           0.59       2     23.4  294.70         0.42      22    20.2  253.75
tadap ff.6.2
lan             kg        5.41        LUe       a       LU       3.4         0.04       22     2.6    3.14         0.72      22      6.    33.75
Irea            4g        4.26        0."4      "0      1.4     13'          0.06       I0      3.6   13.74        0.3       I1I    27.3  229.90
10              &I        L.23        LU9       3       2.0      4.3         LO0G       30     2.0    0.26         0.=2      60    23L009"
*               if        3.24        LU0       36      2.21    3Li          LOG        20      2.2    3.P         0.23       46    20.6    2.44
Ravew           to        L.35        C."04     1000.            3.O         0.04     100 0.0          LO          0.22     03623.0   2IL75
LbikeIf       "fl        1446         G.04      200     7.2    243           4.46      100      7.2   2210         0.2       OK     44.1  22.00
Ilaalct 2I    pair       34.0         Us0       25      4.9     2.2.         0.00       22     0.9   23.210        0.22      22       .3'  93.7
teitticdi       Is      210.0         .04        0      0.0      0.4         0.04        0      0.6     L    0.    6.21        2         0.3 075
tug1 hSeuI
lads            t*        5.41        LU3       v      23.5    70.1          LU5        a2     ml   7TA3           0.39       a2    24.5   79.43
tem             if        4.26        0.3       2n     72.5   322.7          L.1       120    72.1  312.74         0.3      236     ILS   20.06
TV1             if        4.23        0.35      40    33.0   230.3           LUS        i0    33.0221.29           0.59     7fl     41.3  116.37
IF              4         3.24        0.3        4622.0         72.3         4.3        4622.072.                  0.50       a     29.5 VLSI
lanre           kg        Ln2         0.3       =0   ZILo       42.3         0.15     30    21e.  42.23            0.10      S     29.0   0025
Lber af      sofdy       26.40        0.33      NO 6    L 2200    14I        4.1       200    220.0    1.0         0.19      26   1229.  623.04
l022.02 It      umr      20L00        0.3        22    23.3   166.3          6.3 3         23 .3L  206.22          .50       22      24.   231.2
Ftestcade       Is      200.46        0.15        1     0.A1 (61.1           LS          2     0.4   40.10         0.50        2     2.2  S2ILO
Unist
be,             be        6.70        0.00      222     7.1    30.2          L0.0      222      7.3   34.22        0.40      la      3L  6.00.0
teet            If        4.16        0.00       70     4.2     24.          0.00       70      4.2   132          LU         U      6.4   21.90
U               4t        4.12        0.06       34     2.4      7.4         4.00       39      1      2.413       LU4        is     3.2   23.22
MP              to        3.20        L.0        3      2.2      3.9         L.4        20      2.2    3.9        0LU         20      2.43.26
"e6             4t        4.21        0.44      so     24.0      4.5         4.00      500    30.68    4.10          U1     100      46.0    6.00
LoWatt       fodly       2640         0.44      2       9.0    43.2          L0.0      i10      9.0   43.20        La6       200    22.6   62.44
1huoll   Uf    peair     30.0         L.0       29      2.2    24.0          4.44       25      2.2    24.3        0.411     24      2.4   24.00
Jets
de              4g       1no0         0.03       20     LS    itS            LO         20      0.3   23.311       0.04       20     0.0   23.0
4r      t         4.26       0.01       30      2.3    10.0          0.0       3       2.5)0IL"            0.00      SP      La0    0.00
13'               4.22        LIS       20      2.0      4.1        LOS        31      LO      4.23        0.04      35      1.54L20
V4                3.24       0.I1        0      0.3      2.0        LU          26     0.1    1.42         0.00      13      L.9    2.92
lai.            kg        LIS5        LUS    100       10        7.3         LU3    2000    100        7.50        0.04     amN      LO      t.oo
Luswt!       flf         26.60        LO        290     9.5    45.4          4.650     290 9A          0. 604L     0.414    20       22.0   57.6"
bL11a.?)      par        30.0         LII        25     1.3     ILl          US4        2       2.    24.71        0.04      21       2.5   22.50
C.lat nwattm Viiw
ta*  6ILL.)                                                   1311.40                                I30.0A63.4
Pift 62.2.)                                                   X2W.                                   22L32                                 Z30.92
tad, IL.4)                                                     412.24                                 472.2                                322t1
tAtI                                                           330.42                                 336.4                                 40926
isi                                                          241913.72                               069117                               2723"9
abt lucsw  cets It                                            2562L4                                 0662.0                                296.33
Indat                                                                                                 200.0                                 3.10
21 kn Iree Ias 1,20 aIF tie2 WA  regarumir.
21 trnd 1OCk ist 0,16 at thi tota 04] led ragonami.
3t Oats & p #ml  ip Lis 06.5
22'oa,o



PMani 3  I   OINI  uma
lass' wAin win assm Out"r sea1s11
U19M        grpm                             aim            iWUdW S P0flu Name;m
WI=e                           sOm"                              aim                                    a w  as
rAN                             Wm                               silo                                                uinm
ow                              rib                              cm                                                   BMW
resut                           rem                              glwe                                             nIl A1op
rat    rj     a       ie        I'm    :I       i       e RI       t   vs       ci     all       urn        me   gale',
at11    ctl    ca     ge        rut   vol   IS        RI         ci    ne:   is         we        wit    As..       flt
rat    rat:  OK       we        rut    wee   as       UV         re nI   ltt a         ale       file     iu          OM"
et    we              wein             we1  r  a      aRI        n      all     c      ale       In        Sq            a
01     we    0        it'       @I1    wea            r'a        we                    Ule        all       q            au
eV     SIN    0       in        *c     ase     e      RI         I's    we      a      a'e       we        Sq          no
SID    az     is      ine       $11,   ci    a        ale        sm    iz    if        C.        Om'       igS   as"M
vie    r'm    a6       re       cm    er       *      all        I'o    v       *a     axe       Gt       beam      I1,a
Osl e Ol      cI      ine       tl     r v a s          's       [l re  SW esg           ,#      Ulf       Sq         6A"
I'     sc     a       an        i's    we      Ie     a's        n      n       e      at'       en        Sq            a
1e   Ole              are       ce    sOl      ca     alc        weI     n Ie          as'         ei      Sq          Aou
atD   I'D    at       are       c      ale     at     a£s        n      a 's           al'e      m         1S          miss
r'm    wel   am       are       SIM    e'tia          dole       &1t   c'm      0a     alc       Oat       .wI    a  etic
s'us    ret    en     II's      rat    was    ml    sil          a's   Illt 0          ise's     era      abs       eldAm
I's    I'm    Om      Is's     RI       "      "m    isl        we    c'       OK      ale      ire       Sq         seqt
n   i         em o    it's      61     re      i      all        t9   Ale    et        Ole       in        so            a
Cii    ii     St      it1       is     I.,            dolt       V      III    It       We1      all       Sq            au
emu     ye    i       sile      ret    so      a      mlar       rat1           £ ta's            WI       Sq           ice
cIa    wet   sr i                      ret   a:    eel           cIL   rut   as        aWe       ell       Sq         cue
we    wez   la       tire       lc     I      o        I'e       ale    we      a       lilt     ame       ite    iOs Vlpel
iN     5'?    U       it's      let    5'?    al      110o       ft    81       31     1sle      arm       om4      IIgpl
r4:    varl  #us    II'l        Sit   falt   a:       II's       it"    a'S1 at        Ires      ant      be 
IEt '011    SI    It's          re    t i'     a      fe: ill    ic i ol        -      "Ire      lilt      Sq
s'   i    i        I         '       ' aiitire               i't a It'      ci      n.eII,    til      Sql
c's    v   se     Ire       ra1   v9    et         Ires      re    Vs       a       g ill    irc's
SW    w     III                 o'er It'ssir                     ve II a I'se    is    ire1      ails      Sq          .
apt
ova    Itse           ares      we    01       e      mI         I's    rse              's      "IC       ita    heiiq
fit    OI ftC         ill       00     0       5      MO 0eV.WI     el   n              Ws       WIN       Ai"    a ldqfl
ia     el"             re       n      vs es e n       WI        we     Ole     I      WO        sl       Sq         s
9'ii    ItL    of     sito      Ole                   mcw        Ole     ID     eI     we        enl       Squ
I's    su    it:    Zire        I's    Olt     s      We         ec     ee             weo       "rc       Sq            a
vet   it  ii    ~ires      IenDe                                         wIn c    we        erg       Sq         W
41c SL  re ro9WI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~e U
ieV    tt            tit        VS    £1        ac    We         a'I     5 I'sBwe                U  Aat      ni a      sqei
rla    rt'l    at    Et's       oD    91lt      t     we         cI'Di 9t       U      13        ev        beu      /150Am
a,"vi      mc    cill       ci    oil   mg    aee            Z's    eV       a      tive      sire     Sq         se
91  9      a      till      et    Vi       u       ee        ci      9      a        ale      en        Sq            ao
SCu    vs9    a       tire      a':    a'      at     suel       all    we      at     ew        StV       Sq           an
I'd    i'a    Ki      tt@e      c-u    WI    It       Ws         91'    VIi    at        IG       ine      Sq           c
e'il   ri     a       n'u       elf    RI      a      we         er      we     a      "we        "It      Sq           mis
tic    et    at       aRe       inc    RI      a       weS       v       Ole    i       ale       Wit     kis       StAM
01'1D        i0 ll               e     e   RIO     ree lrb          a                         llna'  e     Sq         sAmI
eI     at     a       a'e       rI     VI      e      ee         e'e   lwe      a      wbe       lil       c1            4
el8    el    a        eelo      re    wel      e      we         ni    w               l's       Cse       el            a4
311    01     a       iLl       iU   01U       o      awe        9`U    fI      ea     We        Ole       Sq
Phil
Ie      nil     a       ti       oe     it      aeIm'    At                      a       C        6          c        tMmi
Ilia    cm     ii     a'        fle    vat   do       gIn         We    alt   doe    ine         wet       Sq          MI
flat  1vIe:   a1t    Ill        eta   r1ae6    ml:   ael         elm   rae    Nil    WI'          all      Sq           PON
iee   cot   OKIm   III          9219   e'Zt   ml   811           9110   4'31   mu      gill      61e        ito
Ve    rarl   mi       all       clie  eSI      -et lii   elN                           all e      tl's     Sq    mu      Al
ti: molk   Nml    we        01n   el"    mm        u'o        81ic el 01       l    ii        £1R       Sq    *WMId'
ie I 'm    Ou     IIt 14,   e       vie     -      10I       rw    O'le       i    wle       lee       Sq      Now It
191iceS   ope    ti'i       fleet  riceg    -     c01        eIut  elm    Nu        we        Ml       Sq      in". It
ce  we     ml       cu'       l not   o            ml        41m II'm       l       all       £1b      Sq        tw'
I's    iec    S all     ,       eim   ecu             "lo        c'u8   els   u        ml        eel       Sq       iu   'e
ei rii ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    iiqf
It -tP!4tflpA 
uccsagSsuczgsac  ~ss.~                            Oi    3



i .mn 4mmior
11,04,   M  WM MMDIN   IO     MM "M  %M 1~1dl go'a3M60M                            I       M    P        m  n        sdRetb.I,ot  zo
1. mmiix mu
pvuas01M                                so                                                                            150.      MG.    310.                                30.3             6             6    U
1.-tieS                                   he d 30011153                                                            - In  9*.0  3.53.0  29.1503                            17.13.1             9    0       I    L
ti. 1,u  I 3aet1u5tmiu
39usid 3.4r..s   I b.W"                 La                                                                     ".I   15.4    051.2   167.  3  9.2                -       2.43.1             g  I.2        *    UR
affi*l 19ihgwb                         1031 PM         a    25                                  is      30.       - h50    7,150.          -                             5.421.0            a 4 5.3      15    8
6a1869IND 3T13310                      %mm         -    I                                      In 3      M34      -35.431351.43.0                        -              53630.6             I  i.E    .1.    03
WLmYc  £530 I                                                                                                     -          2,55.4 52,3102.4      -24,360.3                                g  **g       * 
3.4-.15  im,"ve  I ..t*.Aa.                                                                                      99.521.32.  36.02.7 22.10.2   019.2         .    .    . 22,331.0
C. ,vatrm I 950. Coital 6..0.
5. Idluwkwal la
401501.3I                         1013.5      -  63  5.2   1.23  1.144  501    -    -,20           35.52       1301.93.  7.111.6 19.35. 20.32.  %5.25,      .        6,19.9           0.5  L.o       9  Is.A
345531ms 325 kml                    103.            Is213   09    59309  136               1.131    35.521       h5.93.   7.51.63  6409.6 ?.525.  21.55.              26.39.4           0.3  L.n       6     fo
p.Siiu..kw                             3        -                      2          30         It 5    1.All    -                                2.3    38.4               10-3.          0.51.L"        c     3.
1tf430.gm  S .4. 52s.               1033i Po          - 117.53 57.5  1917.317.5              in 11 4.535                   2.21.6  2.32.6  .212.6 2.m36                3.01.A           3.3 c s        6     CL
55s4a.5am  on NJ 3                  103.                   50    21    ' 50                  H; S3 .5           .          2,500.6: 12424,3b1.24,3 24,14      -         .932             . 0.4 64 .55        p
1i-?65I  2tim  1,01013                                                                                            -           .01.4  2.0IA3.41.0.4  5.05.                21.46.7
S. Dr". C.ak I 3.w1.wA 34si.wi
04344*r. k t  in)551.               103.           VA 3.0       11923. 94.4    -    -   - 30         9.01      -   709.3  1.46.2  2.311,A   34.4         .    .         5131.33.        0.5  L.9       6 
3.1tin ha)                          503.        -         2.4 124,3  12l.  23                No 3    3.0       -       -    550.2  5.03.6  136.4   629.6    -    -1.0                   0.1 0.0       0I     (
9.641'534                              3        -       .21       1  4.5                      1   4  19.251                  10.5   324.    I"3          -               39.09          6.50.4    0.55       0
mod tndm                                          I      .5    502.319                               -250.5   547.5                    -       -          -     6.5            6 0.54      LS0     0
4. 3.3359 31.4...
bal,.gbsS5..                                         .   3.5   6.5   L.4     -                  1 5.30.15              -113.   &W.63.511.2               -    -    - 17.36.             0.5  La       .0     3
146..mi 0. 3.4 wasl Mw led            m                    .     .3   0. 44 0.                  IN5103.94?     -            .307  2.170.14.506.2.15264                16-5i2..9         6.5  0.4    Lis    1?
ULimIW 3.m5i.t 55 miai                lb        -          .1   0.0   0.1    -                I   1.216,40     -       .    2157  232.5  1.35.1          -    .       .]"A.             0.5  0.4    LIS    31
f.m"  0364. Qf0r6mmS                                      LO- -    0.6  -    -                1  5.93.25       -            13.  5.31J                                                  ::I5,520.   0.4   a, 6  0?
comwa         4.144                   3                          .     .3      .              I   541.017                       -    0.    3.                      - A1,64.W11             I. 0.4    L55     1!
fl.mr, 321.4.4 12 .mi.s M             a                              a       2                    2.13146.27   .                   2e514J 44.21.  44.39.              1  04.72.         6.3  0.4    L.E      v
Wt" ird 6.6a4mb  59.4033341 -w 17.1_I.2 .33_.7  57.97 54.36. 2 _1f4.                                                                                                      M -33.93.
1. 9mw lHaum,                           .A                                                                               -  5.W.4  426.39.4.39.55440.W                  1 -341.7          0.1  0.4    Ls    33
limOs. I93 5Fi55                                -    -la55.5  92.5  514                      M        9*2                   13167    71167 1.64.2        .    .    .  5..5              6.5  gm9             elS
IiCagsgd3                         ft                     I      a                          2  1.46.431      -            .34.4  2d40.        -              .        .1",            3.1  0.4    0.3    IN
4. 1110AI. UPWRI.IN~
MMft dWI Cod3                                   -     -     -    31~                         32     17.46                       -    37.2   37.1         .        .    1. 144           *.5  e4    LE    33
3.354A 1.WU 910101noi.                                     25  5 n      -         -     -           25.2417                 331367    SW.        -       -    -    .  1,07.4            3.5  0.4    0.1    M3
13 93                                                           95 91        -          -     9     5920                             IPA,  3WA           .    .          3111.2         0.   0.4    0.3      M
an4544                                    -DAMP"-                                                    253                             200.9524.1          -    .    -    35,3            6.20La0.            V33
too nwubSh.                            a.-                  -               2.9    -          4    Iva.n5                             03 - - 46.    759.1   35.  -     54%6             0.   0.4    0.3    M3
no 4ban                             3                           1   2.5    -          -    1     26.15       -             3.    .3136    C6IA                                        :J .1..   0.4    0.3    Wm
WT"aS~         m    1.3.                                                                                         -       -  5.wkpg'i.3   w 2.0.201.     351              7.13.
1.-ld 5.013th  h.0.mi                                                                                                           & 634.  314.6A 5131..147.?4               -3540.2
L MU 9134Bo
343440                                                                                                                                                                                     LI-- S ...   4 .. - 3.      - - 40301. GA
hPIWAOft     ~0                         -9.1  332   66                                         3.         2,25.;  6.40L"5  1.1,                                 33.4AA4. 056.1                 0     U
m0m  t bs10111 .mSugw                    he             -     7-                                        33.9                  -   -        -               .    .             A1.          LI0. GM
60.-l11 (0.51Now.soft                                                                                               -   W.31.   7.20.65  3.717,                            1    4.736.3
F,. bongo= a M 4.                                                                                                   -    1453.7  9.M7. 15.319.256.30.4  1.43.            - 1duo,               a            3
Ad O1Md* wat  3ad  3.u055  g31 1LI0.1 ad3 5WM  iNll- IVA 4.9.4.254               iWI is.5  twed).
Ile no4330



-03
101A -111
wen  a         -NI    ru    ,140-
lathe 2. OMW? MI 3OWlU=
MealS Cem Tole
(TN low)
SisAl SI0  WIt am  viS HAl 19110 96I93 "M,2 loate   bt cte   SO5  OM    SUPl    otiS    IWO9  0911    93/I:  93.97  I"U                            late  [At. is. tale tk:Ad.1
I"lac.                                    C                3D                             -13          3.4W         -        2     1                                             .              .I  C.      C.? 
lsautuatal                                1' 335                                           -135        :a=2                -   ao,1                                -3        4.7               0.1   .a     !.?11    It
PlaY"                                     30      .          27                                1        .36        -            3146.       -               .      -            .t.            3.1  1.4    C.:
I. flskvNsiatL bus.o. 3 Saumls
1. Fleaint  atols (3seas                 hi                                               -                        - .- '.13.  :27.11.4             -       -            -!1.133.4              I or1    o.-    [PI
2.batujattia louwwes
bseuta saev?nl0st cmSf                                      ,                          -    6   20.67            -      -    S2A -                       -               12.                  01.15    t,Wv    to?
#At Cse,ns.sr  M6 Cfs                 Ia             -    3                       -            I3.03.516         -      -1.46291                                         1.09                 0 6.15     I.T    t1r
tAest Orates 3f reata                  ND                  I   2               -            3       637.31       -       - 12                       122.9                  01.                  0.1      0.3?    KIP
11tews,au Sown                         lb S    -     -                                       11.607.33           -      - 27.3.1                                         5.,4                    0.11    c.m      [PI
hWAttie 16-boutdW   OOtcas             94      -     -                                       6    43.312         -            47,2       -       --                      -  47.2              * 9.15    tw"       !at
-ToiM  Ctet/wtlmn leasesA                                                                                           -          .10.6366.63.6
4-*Nlb3fin                            11       -    -    I-                            -    32'97.396           -            1- 2.15                                         .3001                       $.P    Eu
bSonvsals-34 t                         11      -           4                      --41-.1-       -      -                    163.2                                         36313              60.11      0.2'    [DI
learn-Chp                             lb       -           &                                 6    134.426        -           t.i                                           a06&                  0.15   G039      133
blaturvlss-S1 C                       d        -           .- 32-                            2    34.35 a                    411,1                                         433.'              0   .11    0,19    LOT
lisisls                               gm       -       - 3 -0                                       4.-7-  - -     -.1-                                                     p3.               00.15    0,39    [DI
4.94,. beeto
FeAiese  0 eonine TWO                 10.      .-                                                                            343,3                                    . 343.1                 0 0.15    04?3   III
Pwbamesa.oledww                       lb                   I-1   45.6                                            7.1--                                                     417.7              0 0.33    0.39    Il
MlainpstmsPhtatinw r                  no                   3…3   14.325                                                 -   54,1           --94                                                   0.15    0.3     CDI
basal l~ttse                          lb       -     .    2    .                             *        40.040     -            4.5-U9.S                                                           0.33    0.3?    lot
Peem falw tablalse                    I.6                                                            .42                      2060.6                                                          50.13      0.39    III
hsmaePr*ArNKiW *aa                     11I                      -         -    -        --3   477.M              -           417,7-427                                                        00.1        .1      CDI
btoi CmeeCLtuloet. Isa..               11I                       .              -.-.3-            334.06         -1154.4-354.4                                                                I 0.53    0.1       to1
PMIRM                        l        -    -     s II-0    "A.ld                                       -           391-3.00W                                                        60,1       0.319   to
hSl Ahuiaedl                          In-- 11434.4360.1                                                                                                                                                  03        0
tease  Is--                                                                              -  ~~~~~~~~                                                  ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1123  0 0A.13    0.29  011
5Te1  ins. (stpai-                                                                                                          - 2.rA..2       -               -      -      -022.2
3. hn"fbjneS aEVaat
Melsaskm   &                          R                    2-..             .     .    .     2   173.43W                     363.3 -         -       -       -34.5                            613I    0.19    Cal
bruit masse                           lb       -           2  -2--                -               .1                    -   433.9-431.9                                                       a 0.2      0.39    go
Lvlewhli imkteset                     lb                -    -              --2 -                    .691        -           3Us. 2      -W                                 6..               0 0.11    0.39    ECi
Silas SaeIeP                           S                   I 3-3.  102.904                                       -      -   363.-363.0                                                           0.11    0.39    cf.
hatlite                                ND      -           2-             - - - - 2  134.0                       -           221.9                   -is                                      4 0.11  o.xp  co
beas                                 WA        .     .-- .                  .     .                                          33,.9       -               -      -          33.9               4 0.15    0.39    Eat
C. uiua Wr Wa meur FM
aNo"  a ana 14111 oftts                  tao                                 -23.0 2.3W2.0 2.4666                                            -1.6.61 .4                                                        0     M1
lNte  SK hi. ram                         IND--                                                                             -.           312.   312.4   162.                 "M43.    3.36            .s          
Male.- I Fikes Mnol.                     is-o-   .S3.a  3.32.651.33.6 1.32.0 I.M.O                                                                                          4:760-               0   .         0     01
Psiset baeuts bsot                       is-                                                                               -        -       -       -       -        06       MA.                I    0i0             n
-o lasse                                 Is-1.1..    .                                                                                                 -342.2.0 .0                                             0 .
go-Ila)  pa in ofa    mer FMi                                                                                   2,401.2 2.604.3.4 3I464  5,316.01 3.0.0 1,0.5192. WA 44-47.2
I. tle3  ftainsIs  3 testis
TfdLin                        lIs--                                                                              -13.239,4 2.431.3 5.23946  33.3         -        .541.1               0  0.1        0      t.
k-Ita  lausmi famstanco I traisir                                                                                     -J.211.3  lfI.&    402Se6            2412.9 -A             A- u7m.



THIr   FLOO CWo TL MD NAINAE PSOACT
Table 3. 6miii Im    I SUIFOAT
bta,ild Cost tdle
17 '000)
Parmters
kuUtitu                                                               kw Cuts
_        _____                                        --      -        ______ --                                       Cant. fer.   Coo    Smrw
tim1l s41iu  OM  W    87/VIM  fisl n       t0/9  VIM  TOil *imt Ct  w4/ui U             37/1   OM    s9/9g  ,or9   VIM         Total   late  xczh. Tax lit  kc,nt
r.zzz   sz ss  ss-s s--ss zzi = s          2 szuz--  ZiZiz s                   s          zze=  e =  eZ
i. toin COSrs
At &oration I Naintwsmc
i. Iarth's*sinen
a*umt t irsn                  ha       -     -    -    -            70   100  141   31    13.104        -    -    -    -  91723  917.3 1,2104   1,47.7  4,926             3 0.05         0    am
he haintawM                   b              -             -    -    23   23   50    6    175  I .W      -    -    -    -   310.5  310.5  554.4   7U1.1  1,940.4           0   .05        0 f     A
ShiAsda  Brai., Cmls           m                         -     -   70   120  10   370         5.04      -    -    -    -          -  352.1  604. .0 7.2  19.104           0 *.05         0    1
Riwtast                       k-                               -   3S   IS   3S  IOS           50.4      -    -    -    -          -1,764,0 1,764.0  1,76.0  5,292.0       0  i.lS        0    &A
FN*r Cal                      i        -     -    -    - I IS    15   15                     13.104      -    -    -    -   196.6  196.6   16.6   196.6    76.2            0 0.II         I    W
Ss    Pra nt                  ba             -     -    -   30    41   41   41  1J5            .0        -     -           -  241.9  330.6  320.6    m        1,232.3      0  3.05        0    0
Irrl)./"idn. CaNals                                                                                      -    -    -    -          -                                          so.5    6  62.5    137.5   0  0.0  0    @5
WToml Eartimkos                                                                                             -    -    -    - 16.2 3,9.2 4,H3.3  5,i33   16,297.3
2~ ShaWt
kilt Ia latols         -                                             4    4    4    12        10664                                -  4--   425.A   425,6  1,276.3.    0  0.4             0    @5
FluehiW Sluiwt                h                                      7     7    7   21        40.32      -    -    -    -          -i2.2 .2 M        2 .2    3.7           0 .05          0 
DrlUe1 No                                       -4    4    4   12                             10.6o      -     -    -    -         -4034    .23         04      121.       0 0.05         0 
Cuvlvets                      Na         -      --                         3     2    9        $.4       -    -    .-    -         -    15.1   15.1    15.1      6.4         0 . 05       0    @5
Fra  ide                      Ne       -      -     -      -        20   20   200             1,006      -    -    -    - l             20.2   23.2    20.2      60.5      00L O.         O 
CMu    Ia 1dsto-s Ne-                                                7    7    7   21          5.04      -    -    -    -          -    5.2   35.2    35.2   1f.3          I 00.05        0    03
Irtil. ft   Statifs           h         …I    I    1    3                                     211.6      -    -    -    -         -  201.6  201.6    21.6   60J            0  0.05        0     NM
ZrrIg. SWN                    b --2  2  2  6   50.4   -  -  -  -   - 16.311I".  160.3  32.4    00.05    0  0
SWtal sttm                                                                                                  -     -    -    -         - 1.121.1 1.121.1  1.121.1  e343A.
3. Pim Ca-t                                                             - --                                               - - -  - 1-761.t6MA 345.1 36.4 0A   A    0.3   0  M
4. S ervlsiln  Intl. Tr_maert…-    -                                                                                          -   IS1.2   151.2    2.4  4.6  .   1,512.0      *   .05        0 O
sb-Tout bratlun I NaIntm                                                                                                    I -    - 151210174 7,139.3 Y1WA 1014147 29371.1
Totl    JT  Ce4TS                                                                                                 -    -    - 151.2 1i17.4 7P139.3 9456.4 10,06.7 2T9,l7.1
IhKh 290 1915 1012



ISM mWCO - M mAin MGM 
Muiiid goTo le
in.m a  .me eme  Wuu.  .me amee mee... ininuin                   in     e          .....         n~~~~~~~~~...........a........
:aul61fi SIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s"%k  tlllf.
ftUu64flU                       4..~~~~~VS MMM     M     MMMPI   RS                     Id ValU          N   M       M     W -  61.0   120.0IMSA  -       -    166.0              0 s U.10410a d
ampeatalm                                  0.          111.3.1    31.    3 1.41111.4.                                                                           .      .  =a 
1111.u31 b24ou423.                                       2                                               664      *11.   .). so                                         31.MA   64g1        I   ..      .
li-eld  tkaueuf 3ilkm                                           a                                 W' 3mmuua16. 71`910.4 1.111314   226.2            -                  -   6.31.
C. suis..n I nuta biNS omit,
bNU.t&u.  63 be)96  )                                            422   43  26       -       sm       1.4               -bi.   9.31.  kS.o  2.4.0                      .3                0.3 4.0!      4     I.
0*-lead  1aua,.                                                                                        - 1,114.9 9.I06.3111    2i..2236  9.434  .14.           101
2. luau.is Boib
OhueteumtsUweA tiuspi        2066gm.2   -    - 1.41  1.4        S 14  .4             is   66.02      -            471A.    43.4   4114    19       -         u190.6           3,2  5.4     .3      if
haw sueuebwS                                      -S 3                              *         U       50 lb                                   1.3.   OA4                111610 0.0141   %.C%    3?
3. know .u Sied aw usadat Iteuee
Smm,.u.ta  IV 3.                      240. as        13    W1   go.0                .       3.3Ul    9.62         2463  4.711, 4  .131.4        -.3.9                          ~       3306
am  =3 'A3                            3M3.23.3111 1.31 2.1111  41                        - 4.3111    M11,1             -12,11114  310116,43I3ON4  Ida)1.     -                         1 .1 e.g5      C     IA
FaLbnda,                      Mr                        1  . 2  M0  26              S     23.341P                         32.5   449   464I.                1 *Ls..          1.1  0.4    0.4      a?
bi  .ai.                                u                - 4.   Z. 1.41 4.0    -              12     0.22                 1u4f.6  3.611112  341154 2.341111'20.6   446                  .3  04    OA6       CT
Wh-ld Iumpee  mws d.    bii..mI Ituu.tueu                                                                           2.23   3051,3 22,3191. 34.64.  10.5ll            -ld,20.3
4. 310432  SIOu
31.312.6low  32 WON)l                   us        -         1.    .1   4.2               -     3 2.313                 *1 11641  2.1.        M04        -             242.              .1  6.4    0.A      !
"au .4.   A 31S. 09.31,                 us             -    .2   1.4  IIA      .           .   1   USA0.66                         WALL.  NOW2  3       .    .        5. s.?           0.2  0.4    0.b    In
3a"  %M-'im1                            us M                 -.   LI                     -     1      4.0 .I4. ddl.404A.ULL6.3  1.4    LOS    II
1d00u  bediw  Swa.                      usI-- 13 11                            -    -          12123                           - -'.   2ft'. 2.0.                      ..               .3  0.4    LIS      I
inMus3gouAd      ..                    us.1   30.22LS                                         I                               *            33.14 1 40  .    .    .    30.U1. 0.4 D                 LS6    II
usousma, bmmli  4 VW".                  Ls                         I.    .                        4.2.0?.21.26     262.3                                          *   u45.             L.   .4A    :.A      of
ewe bodw.                               1111                     464 9.4      4               4       .32310.14  7.46   6  265.                              -                                               ' 13.   .    .  .1 II
91  32mm                 04        -    -  ~~~2.2   1.3   2.   22                33 2.ALL1      -          444.    .3.  7.4.6.M4"44.4                   2.5.             ..0,         r
31-ho  bobbin. I nod4 1.6.6* bifte* .3     a                                                                                        j Ul. N O.:MoA 23.31114    *    -        111243
&*WM* town"                     to4                NJ3.   3.2    39    -    -        61.1    31.6      -          2.610   *0.6112 Pi.?               -       214dA.4              1.26.       I 
beuius lieS                               PAe  3             NJ   3.3   IJ0.23.       -          4*     4003                4.L32.   411.9 .4.33.164423A4               11. 3146          1.1 6AS        I     a
grim                                       a                  in.              i.                       Ida6                   Zi-p2.?    *       --                        ?.             )0.4 OA      6 Lo
314.0.6 beMi                                                             -       -   3,.,         -       .       .    -    -    43.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~149  .   IA  A
P. 1614-1S02.                                                                                                        .   1213 400,3.1 309.A.9416,3  354                 * 316.4                6M 4              4
fj l iu* 2 n    wau Ul IVA L0O"2as goa   omaum   (S  LIAO192  2mm   0422 In No691.
7 14 323



'            -~~ lIg,        -sEig ,   W I rijiUlll ;EJti'E                      "       lifj if I  it| 
I          ~rr    ni                    rrrrrmrr    rrr               tumrrn    nmmrF                   i
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
'3~.                                                 .      , ,, ., ..,  .   ..,l
FFFFF~        .i~
,, .~~~~~~~~. . .,.              ,   , . .. .    . . .. . . ...§
.. , . ........ ..  ....      ......         .....              i: 
.        .    . .    .    .  . .    . .    .    . .    .  .    . .    .  . .    ..... .. ....
..,.... . . .     . . . .    .      . . .                        
VI r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I~
..1......    El.!                          IS"""" ... ...  ii
.!~~~~~****                              ****..1   !1  l10
w1 "  sl    "   514 Yia                           i                  0S]    6~~~~*1    1
211       3313             .   I . I 1 .1 .  i. .ha..
cc    iii.l. l. j,,ic



runn Wa -Nfm zwm
1*!e noo mia:nu                  na
n u tasiN  C.:   ll
(TI 1400
Ub^l NM  SW           117 VAN MAR 19m9 91/9 9d14t toa             d    "t  WM     M  WV VIM         e    0"         1M       1      t#U  ttl Ist Eb. taxU           ktt 
1. u nWS                                                                       .os s
I.  brc atnm  C   hIrII r
............ ............ ..~
1. toruth.rks
..........
t[   nt lotaits                Ka             -     -   30    A5   12   155  155  515          13.114      -     -     - M9l 2.  195,1  .5fl5 28411.1 2,031.3  70101.6       0  6.05         0     W
hlNaIAImwKw                    Ks       -           -    29    s0    9      0    10   30       11,3        -     -     - 221.3  154.4  997.9  997.9  997.9  3,769.9          0   .es        0      w
SeCi VIeu  Cowl                to       -     -     -     -   70   120   130   221   S9          5.04      -     -     -     -   352.6   6.3   97.2 l14l.1  3213.9           0   0.        *0
ew et                           a       . -   .         -  -    -      6    *      6  1t         5e.4      -     -     -    - .           t2.t  302.4 302.4   907.2              0.e5              W
ReomP   went                    a       -     -     -     -    s      60    so   i    270       3.064      -     -     -     -  241.9   43.8  64.1   16. 2.42 3.1            0 0.65          0 
Shb-taI EaUtuiris                                                                                             -     -     - 614.9 7,131.9 3961.4 41136.1 54217. 3 d"6.0
....:......
ear hiuleis                    I              -     -     -      -     7     7     7   21        UA.       .    -         -          -   744.1  744.8   744.1  2,234.4       0   6.4           
Flusand Sluices                s        -       -     -     -   -     S      I     7    19      44.32      -     -     -     -       -   291.   2M.2  2M.2    766.1           0 0.5          0     m
Clvets                         No             -           -     -    10     1     I0   38        S."       -     -     -     -            50.4   51.4   51.4   151.2           -0.t5        0      VA
3t*du                          ll       -     -     -     -     - .         S     515           19.0       -     -     -    -        -6.4 51.4   30.4   151.2                00.5            I    W
rootbnits                      of       -     -     .     -      -    10    1     10e    30     3.e0       -     -     -     -       -     31@    10.1   10.l    38.2        * *.0.          I    EM
Cross leulaters                s           -     -        -      -   29    20   20    60         5.04      -     -     -     -       -   130.3  160.   130.3    32.4         0  0.t5         I    E
hldnu                         eo        -     -     -     3     3     3  3         3    15    11.144       -     -     -54,4         . 4A    54.    54.4    54.4   27.2         0.e5        0     SM
S6*-Tal Stlnatlrt                                                                                             -     -                                                - 54,4    54.4 1,212.5 1,9.2 122M.2  3,907.7
3. S,weevision lK!. Trmwo,It                                    -     -               -                             -     - I2.e   12.0   241.   362.9  M32.  1,209.6           S  0.35         I    WM
ist-Tetal b ratMe  I Nunte9 -                                                                                                - 790.2 2,307.3 5,415.969.  64*9.0 2199O.2
Tetal 6100  COStS                                                                                                   -     -     - 790.3 2,307.3 5,415.9 4     4.3 6,943.3 21."6.2
EIach 29.1 In 1037



-pnmamm    amatwove
we US        Po8        sw                                                 an *                         .    SIn            a
Is   on    va.            re            reIIIme                          *    m         e        m      -       got     *      UsMM'
or.                         rmss  e   mu. 
we 019              *ame                                                                  elwSae aw   *mua                       0m is       "~wago
tm.ea.  rsmw u*mw rm   rw a4  *IW                                                                              uwma        mPvt."
us   us   vs  -s   sinam           ,ams m.a,u ara"  4-mm          *    w                               
ii   Us   so  ro   raw.--                                                                                                                  amams  a%p"mms   q     .     a 
we U    re mg                 .         a.am.sm.m                            a    et        .   .           la       -
Inu   so  ms0          amt* m                                                m'                     * a *a                                 wn      wA wm  amm
inU*    ret Is         s-umsm         "M  "MMa,sWI                           msI .                                          U* USI
a,    .,  vs  ms   e~rm-          -       rnmw)s            .     .      tin-e                   IaIa                                       msm.w
as   us   sam's    ~ runa'-   * sigem   regie                          "rum a  a       .    .N a a               -      aIon"                            ap
a    ar    re Is re s-tp. .               cat   ma i.m   asm's               m11     rns  w-                            . a   I's           qin .u fe #-wipm"   )
*    m    as ins  ~~rmm-a         r-o saws I-ea-', s-s s-tm' *    ms            WI              i   m    m                          Samoa- N    mP.D'n"imW  -w
onU'   515               i        *  I.,110t  r mg .,P   .ll     .oI  .   am       U            I   M               a 1mmasma
I,as VS Ins         emu.u .   .           roo   V8111        alaf ros  rn-rn   rIM                   *    W  Si5                    em  wa'mrmU
is                                VII, -i..,      *S-wa am  'gm    d. ,mq**    MM* SSU&
ma   a  as's ms    .me.           WWI           sar  same VI""a                Ima                                                     mm  551  3*       a
IS  111V   v   wnpl                                                                               0"" "WP"oP"o nw~~~~~~~~~~~m. .as i
el   I     *5 5           6-AU                                     7u,   7-own       s             m       art*m  k  so .. . . .                Umn  mi3  amm
9ajq t    . .                    Ile"w ag3-g                                         ata,asiimes
a       a s I           ugVW                                                      a   .        .    .d.  .uv   u.in                                         pit"i
en.... ..ee, --      - -            -                     .        u            -   a    -   -   -   -  "v  vi  -- 
5m   Wn am   se              m. emamg ,           U   aw    *mm   iu   -.a ........l. lim U   aSWI. aS.S
awn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~imwI
m    -   -    mm~~~~~~~~~.....      ...
twam1100"l4"   ft  yk  ft   m   fis   111111   no mm     NN~ ml "   P" b    mmwo        n 411011    n        "



a  IV  a      TIVISM-   -       W     s 4UP ZW   PWLIW  M"  P&lI I W    papoltoaf
VI   S                                                                    6w --            -       -    -    -    -    -    - 92q    -    as            M
U    S  Ii 0        ?~einit 44-   -   W   -*n. -W   CUl l&  l.-    a                                                                         i
U    0  3.3 0an                                -  MI lw   12T n   I  -W                                                                    ""am I U
asm   a    e   S           cm   -n -    -              - -   r      -   -    -    -   -                           -           m                Mam ma  1101014
mu   a  me a         Wallm                                               .          .    .    .    .    .    .                    "SW Alt-    --  U  *mmq Wltm Po  -
aim   a  mc..        ercnt -                                                                                                ONP-    -  -  1vUJO ono-  -    mmf
drs   we  rm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~mieam
-    £5 a   6'S          6.0                        -     50          -     stut   a    --- -            - -                                       mpo"am
-    ms   we.  vat                     -     OUt~~~~~r&4   -    -                                                        .415t 1 - 1 - -  wnan%SpUi-
Mn   a.l   wee             cat                        -            -     -      cm                         - z   - -                            *dils
iii   we   we Sal                                        t e       -     -     BS                                         
am   a.   We a             ca                         -      cl                                                              in MTL  a-m"- - 
mu   .1.3   WoO     SBft                        -     PiU    -                                                                     up"- 31M    'U1SE-0
Mn  are   we 0             ilt                        -      nItM   -    -        siu-                              - -       a        -3tp.neqw
an   ma   we 0      cmr      -      -    -    -       cm     -                           -                                                a'j
mu   its    we.     s-rn                              WIlb  -    -                                               -    ii                        aim.,
mua1          e            c:                         -     £t.   - I          iMIt   £                                      U'i
In3   aC    WoOSi                                     -                         SA                                      -    U*t
in    m  we          cm                                 mi-               iSru   s                        s   -                            lsu1I.aIUua.
lt-4 CLIO  M 0  91A                         wat t                                                                  lNw~~~~~~~~~ 144 
L~~  a~i   Wo  LL~~~9i  ~         ~            -            mmmI    - -    -   -                                            m
as   .si   we.             rca-vga                                       - rwont-u    t :-        a--         -    -,   -                     ennui OlmeUuI
la   eaz-   woe            "-rn-uCn   -                                           s   at-     3-     -    -       -                     At      MRjuI4ieqAIN3
rn  ~z-e~i ~        rra,-'"I                                -wrap,II- -                                                Slm Laaaa
- mum
aIa33 AM *L -M]"            --  -4 UPS fe    -f  ma              o   sos  mma SqMP          f mm  6a        MO    Osog    i
'tarn eq   -           InLmEi
u3rn.    WM e     G
RAM~~~~~~~~~~~~  W  ta



UM1AKISH
THIRD FLOOD C0NTROL MD DRAIIME PROMECT
Table 9. NMAO  POUIER I SUOECT
Detailed Cost Table
(T  '0001
Pareetars
ontltu                                                                  list Costs                              Ph1w
------------     -- -~ --.  .........                               -- -----  --        ----------------------- ---Cnt. r                     r.  sross  S.arv
tUnit  4/85 E5/86 96/97 97Jt3 98/89  9/90 90/91 91/92 Toal LUnit Cost 84/t5 85/U6 66/87 87/88  88/89   99/90   S I/91   91/92   Total   RaW   Exch. Tax  bige Acmt
1. RECURRENT COSTs
A. Operation I naintenance
1. Earthiorks
Embankmnt Repairs              Km        -     -     -    30    40    60    90   100   310      13.104       -     -     - 393.1   524.2  786,2 1I0483 1,310.4  4#062.2         0  0.05         0     Oml
Khal Maintenece                Ka        -           -    10    20    30    40    69   169      11 0W        -          -  -    .9   222.9   332A   44U3.5   765.1  1.73.9      0 0.05          0     Oac
Secondary Drainafe Canal       Ka        -     -     -     -    70   120  10   230   600         5.01       -     -     -     -   352.e  604.9   907.2 1,159.2  3,024.0        0  0.05        0      Wi
Revetnts                       Ka        -     -     -     -     -    10    10    10    30        50.4       -     -     -     -       -   504.0   504SO   504    16512,0       0  005         0     Wi
Road Pmnt                      K         -     -     -     -     5    10    15  15.4  45.4       t.o0        -        -             40,3    80.6  121.0   124.2   366.1         0  0.03         0     am
Sub-Total Earhorks                                                                                              -     -     - 504.0 I1139.0 230.3 3024.0 362.9 1088,2
2. Structures
major Regulators               No        -     -     -     -      -     -     3     3     6      106A4       -     -     -     -       -       -   319.2   319,2   638.4        0   0.4         0     WI
Flushing Sluices               No        -     -                  -     6     6     6    18      40.32       -     -     -     -       -   241.9  241.9   241.9    m.8          0  0,05         0     WI
Culverts                       No        -     -     -     -     -    10    10    10    30        5.04       -     -     -     -       -    50.i    50.4    50,4    151.2       0  OOS          0     OAi
Irldes                         "ao       -     -     -     -     -    10    10    10    30       10,00       -     -     -     -       -   100.3   100,    100,IO    302.4      0  0,05         0     OAi.
Footbridges                     ao       -     -     -     -      -    10    10    10    30      1.009       -     -     -     -       -    10.1    10.1    10.1      30.2      0  0.05         0     Wi
Cross Regulators               No        -     -     -     -     -    20    20    20    60        5,04                          -          100.3  100.3   100.8   302,4         0  0,05         0     am
Sub-Total Structures                                                                                            -     -     -     -       -   504.0  t23.2  823.2  2.150,4
3. Supervision Incl. Transport              -     --                                      -     -                             121.0  121.0  241.9  362.9  362.9  1.209.6           0  0.05         0     WI
Sub-Total Operatiun I Maintence                                                                                                  625.0 1.20,0 34.54,2 4210.1 5,04     14,19,2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                 -     -     - 625.0 1240,0 34054,2 4,210.1 5r048.9 14o19"2
222=1 22222 22222rxz 2232222222  222am 2=22*222*32**322222--z=aaz
March 29S  195  10:40
:1..



HINR FLOOD CffTR0L AND NRAJIC MACY
3.arv kccowits bu Year
Totals Includind Continduicis                                                Totals Includla4 Contirdoihs
(TX '000)                                                                   (tIMs '00))
84/85   35/6     36/3      97/U     88/89    89/90   "141   91/92    Total         64/15 15/36  34/17   37/U    11/10    89/0  "0/9I  IIM9   Total
1. IMIfATET COSTS
A. LAND ACWIS1T1UN                               - 56t214.7 129,644,2  8606,74.-                -                    272793il.    - 1,38,4 4~057*6 2,6234           -                      -6624,4
to CIVIL Ms
It NRAIMKNACM FLOM CUNRSI
EAATIIIOS                                  - 419961,6 121,50. 133o376.7 122i391,  44,202,3         -        -  463.597.1      -1.447,0  3,901.  4,041.7 3.653, 1,300,1        -      - 14243.9
STR!XflS                                   -    627,0 63,401.8 173i,714 16441,0  93,794.6          -        -  521.442.7      - 21.6 I,951,  5,266.0  .646,? 2,756,           -      - 15064,5
SU-Total DAINASE AND FLOOO CONTROt.           - 42,511.8 18l,052. 307,155,1 312,236.1 137s",99, B                 905.029,1       1,4841,  5.7329 9,307.  9.20.! 4,SJ.          -       - 29,933,
2. ROAS                                       -   W812.7  M673l.5  39159,9  21,117.1  7.903o2         -       - 99.65.1         -   44.2   i35.4  1.166       653.4  232.4      -       -  .5.
3# IRUISATION SYSTER
CEMS                                                 -  2,121.3  6,120.9  Bitlf.l  2.499.2         -            20,011.0      -      -    73.6   185,5   266.?   73.!         -      - 646
STRITtUES                                  -            7,297.9  16,51.9  11,739.7  2,727.6        -       - 38,339.2        -       -   227.7   512.5   350.4   90,2         -      - 1,161.0
Stub-Total IRRIGATION SYStER                  -            9809.3  22.704,3  20,679.3  5,226.9        -       - 13420.2         -       - 306.5          0 611,0 1.3  153,7     -       -1,765,6
Su-Total CIWIL VMRS                              -46,771,5 221,593,3 369,019, 354903,6 151,126.9         -          IPI43p315.1    - 1,612,8 6,924.9 11,132.4 10,591.2 64444.-             - 34.736.1
co EoiPHm-  2o747,2 58,233.1  324,512                                                 -        -        -            93p566.5     -   94.7  1.619.    997#3        -       -      --         2,902#0
Do UDWTS ANO INKST1ATION                     277.0 43943,0 69r106,7 20,114.1  1,4596    525,7   577,7   634,8  136,638.5   9.6 1,515#3 2,159,6   609.5    43,6   15.5   17.0   18.7  4,388.6
E, ITUDIES                                 2,'40.2  9,707.3  16,629.9  5,26.7  6,5016   7130.9  7,726.4  1,261,2   56,624,6 101.4  300,3   519,7   179.6i  194,1  20997  227,2   37.1  1,769.1
F. USIN, I APN#                                  .  6,340   29,623,5  50,055,3 48012,5  20,523,5         -           154,960.6     -  220.9   932,0  1,516.9  1,437.4  603.        -       - 4,710.7
9. 110HNICAL ASSIST, I TRAININ             4.915o0  11.042,3  30.7n1.9 39.414,4 26.915,7  15,09l.0       -            23,159,7  169.5  310.3   960,1  1,16.0   603.5  444.1        -       -  '5.
Total IWESTMENT COSTS                         9,132.2 175,132.9 555,957.6 603,999. 437,632.9 194,45o0 3,304.1  1.394,0 1,936.260,2  260.4 40643. 17t373,7 16,300.0 1?*069. S.17.6  244.2   55.9 A4104.7
-------  ----------                          -                            33    3    33-w= -Z--
It. RE0JRLN COSTS
Ao WIRTION I NA1NTEWIC                          -        -             20,215  38512,0  27,153,0 39,349,0 47,993.4  125,243,9     -                     68.2   254.1  799.6 1,157.3  1411.6 3,690.0
Total RC1JNI COSTS                                  -        -            2#251.5  9,512,0  27,156,0 39,349.0 47,93,4  125,263,9      -      -        -    41,2   254.1  799,6 1,1I57,3 1,411,6 3,690.0
Total MROCT COSTS                              1,132,2 175.932o9 555,957.6 666,151.2 446,344,3 221,563.1 47,63.1 49,339.3 2.111,24,1 260.4 64,03.2 17o.737 16,341,2 13.323,7 W.16.6 1,401,6 1,467,3 64,794,7
March 29. 1IM 10.143



THIR FLOO CONTROL  3 NRAINAIC PCT
FmrgJet Coaugmts by Year
Totals Including COntinuncs                                               Totals lItludig Citirncls
(TN '0001(u lIESO)
64/8    65/86    86/17    67/1    n         81n      0/      91/92    Total     MM   KM    WI?   1/U    NM             1/     0/91  91/92  Totl
--m  * _ XT     1TM      wwwroson     *     x          *s x= W _ ss           ss                                             2     3
A. GRun F1s  I        26l4O10  9147.0 247,M.7 244770.4 131S767.1 731144.4 21,0.n7 23,95.15   MA3SSA9   .7 3W317  7216*1  7,47.3 4,!30,4 2.151,2   64.2  72.l 26659.3
3. WA1"F        1     2I 74WS     42.4   2U639, IU2723O 15S31U    749"944 10., 10I12.   651,t23.S  91,1 1464.2  5.121,9 1,711.9 4.2,3 2,2             312.3   22.9 1924.2
C. IMWIATHAAN         20774.5 14394.3 144322.1172 WAWA 137.721s3 73o,4293 15,065.6 1910.9  5.344.7  95.7 1,203.3 4,525.7 5,232.1 4,111.1 2,159.7  443.1  4A0.6 11e211.1
Total OCT COSTS         3.132.2 175.2, 555FW57.6 606,151,2 4463441  221,563.1 47,681.1 49o11.3 2,111524.1 214.4 6.072 13m.7 11366.2 13131.7 4516.6 1,401.6 1,44.3 4,94.7
Narb 29. IM 10145
Ii.



THIRD FLOOD COURt MD         lNAIC     PIJECT
(US$ '000)
Phyical ConlnirJcins                 Price Conirdnlcnes
easu  Costs                  -------------- -------------   ------------------ -----------                         Total Incl, Lto.
---------------------------------------             Local                                  Local                                 --- --          -----------
Local (Exnl. Duties I            For.  (Excl.  Duties I                        (Excl. Duties I                        Local (Excl. Mies I
For. Cxch.    Taxes)      Taxes    Total    Exch. Taxes)   Taxis   Total    For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes    Total   For. Exch.    Taxes)            Taxes    Total
I. IWNESTI%ENT COSTS
.  ..........
A. LMD ACQUISITION                                        -      79147.6         -  79147.6       - -          -        -         -        1476.9         -  l.476.1             -      8.6244          -  83624.4
3. CIVIL WORKS
1. PIAINACI AND FLOD CONTROL
EARIWOR%S                                      585.0       S.581.S         - 1OIU669   58.5   958.2          - 1*016.7        180.9 2,979.5         -  3,060.3        824.4      13,U49.6         - 14.243,9
STRUCTURtS                                   44658.6       5p522.1    535.9 10716.5  465.9   552.2        53.6 1.071,6      1,756,1 1,954.1    195.J3  3,06.4       6,981.4       8.028,4    784.7 15694,5
Sub-Total DRAINADE AND FLOOD CONTROL            5S243.6      15,204.0    535.8 20,883.4  524.4 16510.4       53,6 2M088.3      1,737.8 40833.6    175.3  6.9640.       70705.9      21447.    74,7 29,938,4
2, ROADS                                          125.6       2.057.7         -  2.183.4   12.6   205.9         -   218.3         39.3   611.1         -    650.4        177.5       24874,6         -  39052,1
3. IRRIGATION SYSTEM
CANALS                                          24.0         392,4        -    416.4    2.4    39.2          -    41,6          9.0   137,7         -    146.6         35.3         569.3        -    604.6
STRUCTURES                                     353.6         419.1     40.7    813.4   35.4    41.9        4.1    81.3        120.1   132.8      13.3    266.2        509.1         593.8     58.0  1,161.0
--------------------- ------- ---- .    ................   ...... ......   .. .......... ........ ....  ...... -    --....---.- -------- ..  - - - - - -  --- ----- ----- - 
Sub-Total IRRIGATION SYSTEM                       377.6         81146    40.7  1,22S.8   37.8    91.2         4.1   123.0        129.1   270,4      11.3    412.9        544.4       1,163.1      58.0  1,765.6
Sub-Total CIVIL IOR)S                              5#746.9      17.973,2    576.5 24.296,5  574.7 14797,3       57.6 2.429#7    2M106,2 5.715S1    208.6  89029,9         8.427,7'    25P485.7    842.8 34,756,1
C. EGUIPIENT                                       1.328,0         124,9    92899  2.391.7        -       -         -       -        291.3    26.0    202.9    520.3       1.619.3        150.9  1.131,8  2M902.0
D. SiMUCYS ANW  IHIESTIGATION                      2.991,2         57$.5    265.9 3272225         -       -         -       -        493,0   132.8      40.3    666.1     3374.1          708.3    306,2  4.389,6 '6
E. STUDIES                                           98E.7         447.2      42.1  12378.0       -                 -       -        270.5   115.3       5.3    391.0    1159.2          562.5      47.4  1,769.1
F, ENCIN.   A1A,                                          -      3,635,2         -  3p635t2       -       -         -       -            - 1.075.5         -  1:075.5            -      4.710,7         -  4,710,7
C. TECHIICAL ASSIST. I TRAINING                    2P518.0         601.8         -  3119.7        -       -                          675.0   159.1         -    834.1     3.192.          760.8         -  3,953.8
Totel IWYESTIENt COSTS                               13,362.6      30.505.4  1813.3 45681.3  574.7 1.7973          57.6 2o429.7      3935,  9 M700.7    457,1 12t993.7    17773.2         410003.4  2%328.1 61.104,7
11, RECURRN  COSTS
A. OPERATION I MAINTENANCE                          267.6       2,010.5         -  2,278.1       -       -         -       -       167.8 2.244.0         -  1.411.9        435.4       3.254.5         -  3.690.0
.   ....   ........ .................... ............ ........ ............ ....... -------.. -----  ----    ------  -----  -----  -----    ------- -_----- --------
Total RECUIRREN  COSTS                                  267.6       2.020.5         -  2.2789,       -       -                 -        167.8 1,244.0         -  1,411.9        435.4      3,254.5         -  34690.0
Total                                                 13Y630.1      32P516.0  l913.3 47.959,5  574.7 1.797,3        576 2.4290.        4003.9 9,944.7    457,1 14.405.6    12,6            4425,0  2,3289  64,794.7
Birch 27, 1985 10150
fb
I ' 



THIRD FLMOO CONTROL AND T1AIWA MtOCT
IRIMN OF SUWA ACCC1MTS
(TA '000)
late Cstsg                           Physical Contirwaoias                        Price Co.t4aum.ifs                             rotal. mcl. Cant.
Local ((xcl, Duties I                        Lecal ((Mcl, Duties A                      Local IE.cl. Duties A                        Local ([xcl, MAiss I
for. Exch.   taxes)     Taxes    Total       for. EKCh,    TAxes      TaAIS    Total   for. Exch.   Tax")    ITaxes   Total          rot. ExOh.   Taxes)    Taxes    Total
I. ZNVlSTMNT COSTS
A. LAND ACUISITIWI                                         207,280.0        -207,230.0              -                                                5.5)5.1        - 65.SI0.1                   2r172.19,            272t79.1
3. CIVIL MORA
to BAIK ANA[MD FLOOD CONRO
EARTI3iS                                 11.965.0   277o5.37O             294840.0      Is&%6,      27.87370         29,484.0    3,193.01l31.06.3             - 139,263.1      26452.3    434,731.38            463,067.1
5TKTURtIs                               233,099.4   160139.4 20,38.9  3150773.1    23,010.0    18P0I4.0  W503,9 319077.3   30.026.5    90,030.9  3,979.3 179,034.3            223,636.1   266.734.5 264072.1  521e442.7
... .. ..   .. .. .. ..   .. .. .. .  ... .. ..--- -- -- -                                                                            - -- --     ---   -- -- -    -     ---- 
Sub-Total ORA2MAC ANDT FLOOD CONTROL       152tOL4.6   433.0414. 10,033.9  600.613,1    10,206.0    43,01.0  1,033.9 Ho,06.3   89,20.3   221i.25.   3,979.3 313,549.9            255o491.4   703,446,3 264072.1  935.028
2. ROAM                                      3.643.3    59P674.3         -   6341.370        364.3      5o967,4        -  W.31.3     1.002,2    23.413?          - 30.21503        50309.3    94,0015.3        -   99.340.1
3. IkiRGATION SYSTEM
CAMAS                                       494.3    11.330,1         -    12,074.3        4.0       1.133,0        -1207.5         403.3      4,339.3        -  49.737         3,173.1    13,907.9         -    20,032.0
STR1ITL1(S                               290.4.6    12,15534  ,1479,0   23,589,4        1,0235.      1,215.0    117.9  MM38,      5,032,2      6.239.2   619.5  122,30.9       26,822.3    19,610.0  19917.0   38o33.2
tub-Total IRRIGATION ISYSTEM                10949.4    23.030,3  1,179.0   30.664,2        1,094.9      2t353.5    127.9  3.066,4    5.941,0    12,429.0   619.0  19I9,13.        17,93.4    33,017.3  2,917.0   03,420.2
Sub-Total CIVIL kOA                           166,60.3   021.224.2 16,713.4  7044099.9   26.600.?    02,22.4  1,471.3 70.440.0   95.463,6   242,492.3  9,0919 361,2003              " 2794.26,   336.39,05 27,93.1 1.43,315.1          j
C. QUdIPIEN                                    33.021,0      3,421.7 26,937.3   69,070.0            -                                  13.700.6      l.242.3  9.053.7 249496.6       53,211.6      4,544.0 36,490.9   93PU.065 
Do SIRYS AnD IWYESTIOATION                     8363,534     16,490.2'  7,7100   107,953.6           -                                   229003       5,750,4  1,644.?  20,684.9     104,343.3   '22.440,4  9,304.2   236,633.0
C. STUDIES                                    '20.771.7    12.970.0  2.221.5   39,943.2             -                                  11,360.9      4*707.8   212.7  286,334        37,632.4     2707.7,   1*434.1   06,324.6
r. ExSim. % AN.                                       -    1050420.7            1 05s420.7          -                    -        --    49.039,9                    - 49,539.9              -    1549960.6        -   204,960.6
0. TECHNICAL ASSIST. I IRAININO                73,020.3    1715.402,             901472.3                                              30.464.7      7,223,?        -  37.617,9     103.485,0    24,674.2         -   123,109.7
lotal 1II'JST)ENI COSTS                          337P024.2   334,607.3 52,037.1 1.24.759.1    26.M0.7    52s122.4  1,471.3 70,460.0  173P23.1   396.751.6 21,009.4 092,041.1           577o460.1  I.333.031.8 75.268.41.936,260,2
It. R[CUDRNT COSTS
A, OFIRA1ION I MAINTENMIC                      7,740.2    803.054          - 66,065.6              -                                   7,033.2    02o265.1         - 59.919.3       24.793,3    11O0,40,             123.463.9
total RECUUINT COSTS                               7,70.1    53.305.4          -   66.065,6--                                              7,033.2    52165.3             590193,3      14,793,3   110.470,4             120,263.9
total                                             395,274.3   942,963.2 52,037.11.P390.324.7   264660.7    52.222,4  1,671.3 70.460.0  230413233    448,916.  21,009.4 400,239.4        592*203.3  1,444002.4 73,261.4 ?2t21.024.1
.--------------------------------------                                  .- -     .--    ---     -  - ~---~-                                          -   …     ---…            -     - -- ----------          ------ -…   -----



* ~~-95-
AnueXC 9
BALADESH.                                           Table 14
THIRD FLOOD CtOTOL MID IDRi6E PRIECT
Siurv Accint by Priot Couant
IK '0N0)
Phugsela
Coini_min_
NADON
NTPISE1 POLDER,                  n IIN ATI-I N   Total     Z   Aount
I. INVESTNIET COSTS
A. LAND ACISITN                                  97o250.0  55,710.0             54320.0   207t200.0  0.0         0.0
D. CIVIL IRtS
1. MDRAIAN FLOOD CONTRL
EATUOS                                    130799.0  79P261.1              857904.   294940.0  10.0 29P494.0
STRUTUCES                                  71,042.0  153,607.0            86,129.2   3109778.1 10.0 314077.8
Sub-Total DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CDNTROL         201,830.0 231W868.1            1714920.1   6054618.1  10.0 60,561.8
2. ROADS                                      149716.8  10,725.1             37475.6    63,317.5 10.0  6P331.8
3. RRGATIO  SYSiTE
CANM.S                                     12i074.8          -                   -    12P074.8 10.0  1p207.5
STRUCTUES                                  23,589.4          -                   -    23W589.4 1O.0  2,358.9
Sub-Total IRRIGATION SYSTEN                   35v664.2          -                   -    35P664.2 10.0  3p566.4
Sub-Total CIVIL IOR16                           252.211.0 2429593.2            209w79M.7   704,599.9  10.0 70v460.0
C. EUIPIENT                                      45095A.4  13947.9              104126.7    69,070.0  0.0        0.0
B. SW"UETS AND INDESTIGATION                     754113.6  l6p339,0             16P501.0   107P953.6  0.0        0.0
E. STUDIES                                       13,456.0  14,391.2             12,116.0    39Y963.2  0.0        0.0
F. ENGIN. S AMH.                                 379697.0  36,254.3             31U469.4   105,420.7  0.0        0.0
G. TECHNICAL'ASSIST. I TRAINING                  30,157.3  30w157.3             30M157.3    909471.8  0.0        0.0
Total INUESTIMNTCOSTS                              550,980.2  4092M.9             364p486.1 1,324759.1  5.3  70460.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION I NAINTENDNCE                      29,871.1  14,198.2             21096.2    66,065.6  0.0         0.0
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                               29,871.1  149198.2             21;996.2    66P065.6  0.0        0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                580,951.3 423p491.1            3964982.3 1,390,B24.7  5.1  70,460.0
Physical Contingencies                            25M221.1  24029.3              20v979.6    709460.0  0.0        0.0
Price Contin9encies                              257,783.5 2034573.1            1884882.9   650v239.4  5.1  33r477.8
Total PRMJECT COSTS                                 863M55.9  651,323.5            596,344.7 2,112,524.1  4.9 103m937.7
Taxes                                             37,877.8  21424.8              1595C5.8    75,268.4   3.4  2,544.5
Foreign Exchange                                 2494029.2  195,996.9           1479337.3   592,253.3  4.3 25,389.7
harch 29y 1985 10:53



-96-
Annex 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Polder Concept and AgricuLtural Development
Polder Concept
1.       Depending on the topography and available financial resources,
different technical solutions to achieve a degree of flood control and
drainage may be considered:
Embankment along the river banks to prevent overspilling;
gi!!le Polders:  Construction of a surrounding embankment, with
sluice structures (regulators) to permit the discharge of the internal
runoff as Long as the outside river leveL is low enough;
Tidal Drainage Polders: Construction of same embankment, with
sluice structures to permit tidal drainage. This is only possible in low
Lying areas, close to the sea where the tidal range is sufficient to
permit discharge of internal runoff at low tide; and
Pump Drained Polders: Construction of same embankment with
sluice structuresp supplemented by pumping units to help discharge the
internal runoff when the river Level outside gets too high for gravity
outflow.
2.       To the above categories of flood protection, correspond various
solutions for irrigation:
- in the case of embankments and "simple" polders, irrigation
may be provided through (i) LLPs operating along the embank-
ment if there is a sufficient perennial flow in the outside
creeks or rivers, or (ii) by allowing the outside water to
enter the drainage chnnels through the regulators if the
topography and river level at low stage flow so permit or
(iii) by using DTis or STWs, if the groundwater conditions are
favorable. Supplementary irrigation during dry spells of the
monsoon season can be arranged by opening flushing gates to
let the outside water in. Check structures at convenient
locations within the polder area would be needed to retain
water for irrigation purposes.



-97-
Annex 10
Page 2
- the tidal drainage polders may also benefit of tidal irriga-
tion, if the tidal range during the dry season and the topog-
raphy are adequate. Generally, tidal irrigation needs to be
supplemented by LLPs. In low-lying tidal areas, aquifer
conditions are generally poor and preclude the use of
tubevells.
the polders with drainage pumps can generally be equipped vith
reversible pumps to provide irrigation during the dry season.
This is the costliest solution, both with regard to initial
investment costs and the ensuing operating costs. ThiS alter-
native may, nevertheless, present the only choice in
deep-flooded areas where the topography makes gravity drainage
impossible.
3.       The proposed project consists of one subproject of the tflood
protection embankment' type (Cumti Phase I) and of two subprojects of the
'simple polder' category (Naogaon Polder I and Madhumati-Uabaganga). This
approach to flood protection, although incomplete, permits to (i) serve as
large an area as possible with available funds and does not require high
recurrent Costs for operation and maintenance, (ii) provide basic flood
protection to as many people as possible, (iii) create conditions and
motivation for gradual agricultural development by eliminating the major
risk of crop failure and (iv) provide partial flood protection which may
be upgraded by 'pump drainage' when nad if economic conditions would
warrant it at a 14ter stage.
'I
4.       The degree of flood protection of the 'simple polder' system is
limited by the interplay of two conflicting factors:
- the (outside) river level range (between low and higb stage)
is about 15 to 20 feet. The rivers start rising in May, cause
damaging inundation from mid-July, reach the peak level
usually mid-August and recede below inundation level in
October;
- the (inside) monsoon rainfall may total about 50 inches for
the months of June to September, while the evapotranspiration
for the same period is only about 22 inches. The resulting
runoff gets impounded inside the polder, causing the internal
water level to rise and flood the low lying areas. The extent
of damaging inundation depends largely on the topography of
the area. The feasiblity of the 'simple polder' concept
hinges on the existence of a deep low lying portion of the
polder area sufficient to temporariry impound the runoff from
the mosoon rainfall.



-98-
Annex 10
Page 3
5.       For the three subprojects, the hydrograph analysis has been made
and the results are shown in-the form of the flood routing curves attached
to this Annex. The analysis of the inundation conditions after the
project is completed indicates that ti) flood depth and duration are
reduced, (ii) the rise of water level is retarded, slowed, and the peak is
reached later in the cultivation season.
6.       Increased crop production in & polder or an embankment protected
area would mainly come from (i) reduction of crop losses due to Late
arrival of flood and reduced flood Level, (ii) shift from broadcasted deep
water to transplanted shallow water rice cultivation, (iii) substitution
of low yielding varieties, and (iv) increased cultivation of dry season
crops in case irrigation is provided. .
7.       Based on flood depth, the present land use in Bangladesh has been
classified into the following four groups:
Cropping Pattern
Land Class        Flood Depth, m           Rainy Season        Dry Season
(1)  Highland         Above flood level         Broadcast Aus   +  Rabi Crops 1/
or less than 0.3 m       Transplant Aas  +  Rabi Crops
temporary submersion    Jute              +  Rabi Crops
B. Aus + T. Aman+  Rabi Crops
Sugarcane
(2)  Medium Highland       0.3 - 1              T. Aman          +  Rabi Crops
T. Aman         +  Scro Rice
Jute            +  Rabi Crops
B. Aus          +  Rabi Crops
Mixed B. AuslAman* Rabi Crops
Sugarcane
(3)  Medium Lowland        1 - 2                B. Aman          +  Rabi Crops
Nixed B. Aus/Aman+ Rabi Crops
Bora Rice
(4)  Lowland               Over 2               B. Amen             Rabi Crops
Boro Rice
1/  Pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and wheat are the major rabi crops.  Their
cuLtivation is dependent upon the presence of enough residual soil
moisture and/or irrigation.
8.       Following the completion of a polder or embankment protected
scheme, the cropping pattern would be modified &ccording to different soil



-99-
Anntx 10
Page 4
Cypes, availability of irrigation vater and reduction in level and dura-
tion of floods. Possible major cropping pattern changes in each land
group within a protected area include:
1. Lowland area. Low yield, long stem and long growth period b.
man would be substituted by improved b. *us or mixed b. aus
and amen. Boro rice and wheat could be expanded if irriga-
tion is available in dry season.
2. Medium lowland area. To aus and t. aman would replace b.
amen in rainy season. Boro rice and wheat could be grown in
dry season if irrigation is available.
3. Medium highland area. Mixed b. aus and aman would decrease
and be substituted by either t. aus or t. aman and b. &us
followed by t. mamn. In addition to other rabi crops, boro
rice and vheat could also be dry season crops when irrigation
can be supplied.
4. Highland area. Cropping patterns would remain the sam as
pro-protection stage but reliable irrigation would be needed
to achieve higher potential yields.
9.       The success of a well designed and constructed polder project
would mainly depend on sound operation and maintenance of the polder
facilities and on the farmers' awareness of and adaptability to the new
environment. Farmers in different parts of a polder area would face
different problems. Generally speaking, the reduced flood level in lower
lying areas would necessitate substantial changes in cropping patterns and
farming techniques for the farmers who have traditionally cultivated deep
water and broadcast rice and may be less familiar vith shallow water
transplanted rice. They may also be short in knowledge on the use of
water for irrigation of dry season crops. In higher land areas, farmers
could get less water on their fields during the monsoon season because of
the polder facilities and would have to depend on reliable supplementary
irrigation for their crops. All farmers would have to improve their
farming techniques to increase yields and cropping intensities. Thus,
an agricultural and a well planned fisheries development program would
need to be prepared for impleentacion following complecion of project
facilities.
10.       In order to facilitate the transition of the polder areas, the
project provides for i) aerial photography and mapping of ths lands to
help with project implementation and provide a basis for defining suitable
cropping patterns, demostrations to test the need and utility of field
bunding, the use of adequate on-farm irrigation channels, and possible
alternatives to remedy animal power shortage.



-100-
Ae  10
Agricultire in the Cumti Phase I Subproject area
11.      The subproject area is located in he Comilla  District and to the
west of Comilla town. It is bounded by the Cunti river on the north and
east, the Daudkandi-Couilla road on the south and the Couripur-Homna
feeder road on the west. It has a geoss area of approximcaLy 37,300 ba of
which abouc 29,500 ha are cultivable. It is a part of the Negna-Cucti
flood plain and is intersected by a network of natural drains (khals), old
river courses and spill channels of the Cuati river. It has a population
of 315,000 with a density of 960 inhabitants per square kilomter, making
it one of the most densely populated areas in Dangladesh. The total number
of farming families is around 44,000; the average farm size is 0.8 hat
however, thirty percent of the farm household cultivates only 0.4 ha. or
lses which puts them bdlow subsistence level. The current annual cropping
intensity in the subproject area, 177Z, is among the highest of the
nation. The better cultural practices generally adopted by farmers in
Comilla ara lea d to a higher yields when ezcessive flood and drougbt do
not occur.
12.      Crop production is usually affected by floods and drought spells.
Floods are a combiacion of (l) flash flood from the Cauti river in early
moansoon period, hay and June; (2) overbank flow from the Meghna-Custi
rivers during periods of high Meghna stage in late monsoon seasons and (3)
impeded drainage during periods of high Keghna stage. Flood depth and
duration are variable in time -ad location, but generally increase towards
the low lying area in the west. In an average yuar about 26.000 ha. t70Z
of the subproject area) is inundated to a depth of more than 0.3 a-and the
maximu depth in the lauest araa could reach around 3.0 m.
13.      Cropping pattern is Eoverned by the flood s:tuation in monsoon
season and the availabili:y of irrigation in dry season. Jn the sub-
project area, b.aus, mixed b.aus and ama.t t. &us, t. aman and jute
dominate in monsoon season. Wheat and boro rice are the major dry season
crops, but, their present acraeAgs are rescricted given the inadequate
supply of irrigation water due to low river flow in the dry season and
limited underground water development. Only about 3,7CO ha. is irrigated
under manual lifting, low-lifc pumps and tubewells at present.
14.      The extent of flood damage to croy production depends on the
depth, duration and time of occureace of flat%ds and the kind of crop
grown. Heevy crop losses usuaLly occur frna a-rly flood in Kay and June
which submerges the maturing t. aus and boro rice pls-tu and msakes the
harvest impossibld.  The  subsequent flood would4affect the noracl growtb
of b. aus and aman crops.  A.rs.ual loss due to floods are estimated by SlDS
from about j: to complete lost of crop with an averacE of about 20.



-101-
Annex 10
page 6
1S.      The provision of flood control and drainage works and additional
irrigation in the subproject area would result in the following improve-
meats in the future: (1) reduction of flooded arable land area from about
26,000 ha to about 18,000 ha; (2) delayed arrival of floods; and (3)
increase in the irrigcetd sre from about 3,700 ha. to over 13,000 ha.
These changes, in turn, would have the following impact on crop produc-
tion: (1) a decrease in the acreage of broadcasted rice; (2) acreage of
high yielding t. aman expands from its present 6,000 ha. to 11,000 ha;
and (3) boro rice acreage almost quadruples through the increased supply
of irrigaton water.
16.      Ton water management demonstration units each covering an area
served by a low lit pump (10-20 ha) would be organized on farmers' land
following completion of major civil works. The doaonstrations would
follow the principles under the existing Irrigation Management Program
(IMP). The purpose would be to train farmers in the efficient use of
water (irrigation and drainage) under varying soil conditions and to meet
the requirments of various crops.
Atriculture in the Waosaon PoLder I Subproject area
17.      The subproject area is in the uaogaon District.  It is bounded by
the Little Jamna river to the east, the Atrai river to the west and south
and the Kaogoan-tobadebpur road to the north. rt covars a gross area of
46,100 ha of wbich about 37,000 ha is cultivable. The total population is
around 324,000 people, including, 31.000 farm families. The average farm
size is about 1.2 ha, but 45Z of households cultivate 0.8 ha or less.
Amgng the latter group, 24Z cultivate 0.4 ha or less putting them below
the subsistance level.
18.      The flooding problem in the subproject area is due to a combina-
tion of: (1) inflow of river water through the khals; (2) overbank spill
from the main rivers at high flood stage; (3) drainage congestion from tho
north. In a normal year, about 32,000 ha. or 70o of the gross area is
subject to flooding. Approximately 9,000 ha, is inundated to a depth of
0.6 - 0.9 m. and about 5,000 ha, including three beel areas, is under a
depth of more than 3.0 m. During the dry season, about 2,000 shallow
tubewelLs and 30 deep tubewlls are serving in tbe subproject are.
19.      Current cropping intensity is about 1402.  In monsoon season,
b.aus, b.aman and t. local amn are the major crops. In dry season, boro
rice is the leading crop, next to wheat, pulses and oilseeds. arly flood
usually causes severe damage to the maturing boro and t. &us crops and
also affect sowing or transplantinp of aman crop.
20.      The project flood control and drainage improvement works wouLd
reduce flood levels and delay flood occurrence time, thur minimizing boro



-102-
Annex 10
Page 7
and &us lossos and allowing more land to be cultivated into improved
t.aman. In addition, the re-excavation of khals, construction of new
secondary canals and installation of water control structures would make
it possible to maintain water at a level which allow irrigation of aman
crop when dry spells occur during monsoon season or for limited irrigation
of boro and aus crops in dry season.
Agriculture in the Nadhumati-Nabaganga Subproject area
21.      The subproject area is located in both Kagura and Narail Dis-
tricts. It is bounded by the Kadhumati river to the east and the Nabaganga
river to the west. It has a gross area of 45,000 ha of which about 38,000
ha are cultivable. The current population is about 230,000, including
39,000 farming families. About SOX of farm families cultivate less than
1.2 ha. About ISZ of those cultivate less than 0.3 ha.
22.      Annual flooding in the subproject area originates from: (1)
inflow of river water through the khals in early monsoon season, Kay-July;
(2) overbank spill from river during high river stage in late monsoon,
July-September; and (3) rainfaLl run-off accumulated in the low lying
areas due to drainage congestion. About 20,000 ha. or 45Z of the total
area is flooded in a no.mal year to a depth of maore than 0.3 m, of which
about 10,000 ha is flooded to over 1.0 m. Croundwater irrigation through
shalLow or deep tubewells is limited due to watertable depth in northern
and central parts, high percolation rate of the soil and water salinity
content in the southern area. Surface water irrigation is also constrained
by the limited river flow in the dry season and the saline water intru-
sion. Rainfed pattern characterizes agriculural production in the sub-
project area.
23.      Present cropping intensity is about 142S.  In monsoon season,
rice cultivation is dominated by b.aus, b. aman, and mixed b. &us and
amn. Low yields inherent in the varieties are exacerbated by floods in
early growth stage (aus) and prevailing dry spells in late stage (aman)
Complete crop loss happens frequently in areas where floods com or recede
early. In dry season, pulses and oilseeds are the main crops; wheaL 5
limited due to lack of irrigation water supply.
24.      Construction of embankment and instaLlation of control structures
along the main rivers in the subproject area would delay the arrival and
reduce the depth of floods. They would also maintain water level in late
monsoon season to permit supplementary irrigation. These changes would
have the following imapct on crop production: (1) expansion of b. &us, (2)
reduction of mixed b.aus and amn; and (3) increase of t. aman.  In addi-
tion, crop yields would be increased as farmers would use more inputs and
adopt available farming techniques under improved cultural conditions.
I



-103-                     Annex 11
BANGLADESE
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Related Documents in Project File
Drainage Analysis Charts
Project Description
BWDB Organization Chart
Procurement Schedule
Feasibility Studies
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-104-
BANLDESH
THIRDa FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PRO0JECT
OrganbcHon of the Bangkxdesh Wcr     D       ocrd
Chl              Ch-            Ch r id    X 1
_Monltdr &    _ food br     _NOIW          _  Accotunts
ENaluction      Wlcz
f re {X  X  S~~~~~~~or
HVmig         Rj      2SuvE                 Prcho,
_  vm       _   Enohr      _   Engioi
invegf  _      EE_uarwt
Enginew     Laind &
Waft Boric-27225i



-105-
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Headquartes Organization
BWDB Chalbron l
MemberPlanning
Chbl Engineer
|Plonrinrg I|
Pmortin                P I                    Po MO             rwnaf
Project Reied Orglanization
|Chief Engir0er 
| upewlntendn
Engineer      l
I                                        7
lnewue Cftbor            Sub&Enoml                                    & 1  dM*l   l  
Land Pcquliton             ftne                Coineeruo                Engnorw
& Conoacts   lupe96bn
Wodd Bonk-27224



BANGLADESH
I XN D I A           THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND
DRAINAGE PROJECT
b;O   GUMTI PHASE I
NAOGAON POLDER I
G <MADHUMATI-NABAGANGA
-x  A    *, U~~~~ R                                                25' -j''  ~  g~N
JSHANHJI'                                                                  '     ,
~~~~E~~~A      IPbR



Jib                                                 I~~  LP R    ~         m A\?
U~~~~~~~~~~~NV NeJ I \                                                                                                                          RANOMAj
L L~~~~~~~--
This map has been prepared by                          Y~~?IA                               H oUAIigtV
for the convenience 01 trthX¢~$ite                 iS  l          ''ja' P)    TO.AKH   Ll {9t v            /     0    /                                   X r       ,,
readerJs and isexclusively fr he   Mj *,^} \4.  l    !;\,         /, |-   7/                                                                                       V......|S  v{/29#'  -1 Af  '
internal use of The Worldt Bank   1'v  ,  2i\<, '4b) ,,,'-\ /<  1 2  ' (    ..- '.i  , ~ /-r~  1          Lv'6 /i'2Ji                                      \¾ 't 
vsed and the looundaties shown    *.~                   'l, l                        o       -'.5'.''      <': :~                     CH I T    "-G  iNG        \ i X      
I N    D    I A                                                                                            K~~I    1 
on this map do nt7im7ply,on the   ,2|    i   1 ;-1j     ,       S',t                U.JJ l, i,       L;v' c.  .9 
Internahosnal Fin,ntceCorporationi,  sX.\,    ,        ;                                                                                           !rX      ?t                r 
ttny jtudmentnt on the teQaol status  *, i  -                                                                                                       )(  '           ,       ?g
at any territory or anyv          -- 9   '                                               - Roads                                                     i Sitak r  
endorsement or acceptantce ol     1             I                            I---. Railways 8''>\ 
suchbounJtdaries.              .,                                                         ---District Boundaries                                    <1         2,         ,     : 
PAKISTAN                ,2'\-1  /tJioj                                                                                                                                J       <  
r.         I N DIA      Ohk. r«                                                                                                                                      )(>
lBHANOLADE8H  ,                       UA
2                                         A -_                                        0     10   20      Xt    O 30 40    S
This map has beenpreparedbyyailes                                                                                                                                                       W
W                     Bi l   Th WoSAf Bang                                            9 
C       a   )s mp d     ink
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O 
par ofTe                                                                      0 dBnkad h 
Vnen )aalFnneCrprfo.         ~



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
GUMTI PHASE 1 SUB-PROJECT    \                                                    Ghorasal          Dilaiptwr Murad
Panitan   \ 
Jur                       =       ---      -------
\bindpur            - - -
[aska           d-- _-----
.j
,-      {Ri gulaor- -               -----            ---------
*, ~~~Cum Lock                                                ------~ 
*i                  -       - - -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -    -    -     -cipt - -~ -   -~ -  -   -~ -D -  -                          
-~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     - - - - - - - - __  - -  - - - -=  - ===  - -= -= ==== -  _= -  ==
D ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~       '     . l  lr3Jir ed-, 
D''!!,                  I'D                                                           -- - -!II. - - - -lsgn - - ---------
-- '~~~~~~~------
V,~~ 
' '  -   = ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~PROPOSED PROJECr:
* o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A   rEmbonkmenh
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 >    Nin Droixoge Kbols
O       RepAotor Lod,
Rood Improten_nt
EXISTING:
lSbtolltB1d Roads4
0    w_e _@Xs _&+ X,e.r M                       ___    Ptut~~~~~~~PrgyMetalled Rod
-26 Q. : INDIA                     _                            Kh ls
;,- .:_._....-    MNow Drainage Khols
i.BANGLADESH  up,ke...                                                       ___  Now lfrexjliion Khcis
-2t              hd            x                                        ---           a
. x 9 9 _ . , K ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Now Irrigdion Intak Sfutitus
INDIA                                                                               zioe  opEo
D Rgulto RgLator
Emr itgoeRonAdea
.'0   E. Z BA-3GlADESHt  jW pR                                      ---    West Iigation AKei
DI?                                                                              Ne Irgtin. .nak Strudr
Br:9:.*eD



IBRD 18558R
igar               panigonj
Kailkopur
'-I"                 4   Q</) Escapt- Spiliwciy LakShmnipur
N'Jibanpur
Comnpanyganj             Jibionixi Shibnagor                   Monoharpur
Inle
,'Dhvungar
-Bingolboi\%       \
-lampura    14                          Bishnupur          Moloparo
n          ~~~A la mp      u   \    z   4 ?
- --        t                   sw,   t~~~~~~~~~~~Monobopur
--=                      4 r        ll      -S                                 KumoIn
==  ~~~~~~~~             >            1z11s~~~~~~~~~~~mlmI. .:uq  r
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne
'     t Begnabair .                                Jatoropur
A --                                                   Snipur
i..~East            Gobindapur
Ramdiandvapu ~ ~    ~     urbri
20   Mlick-\rc,
.,Bcsfihow.   Kahetar
,'    IC  /       ---                                            Ka.na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rkhara
Chandina       Pk
a               ~~~~~~3 KLOMETrSt
0                       2MILES
- __ MWI - E.~ MwMwv -~- -0
APR IL 1985



AV. .J   I t  ll-
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRINAGE PROJECT
Mahadebpur   NAOGAON POLDER SUB-PROJECT
Mahadobp45           -    mpu
--  .-           Raypuw C               purI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD
F/<F PrpRu u
d0                           '  ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~MONISOR  g         
-4-~~~~~~~~~~-r
_S-s _  e_E oru
1ls  ;X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Of



~~~~~~~U*hbIhmm    ~~~~~~~~             l~anga                                                                             EE
Joteboo
< = = = k   /\                            CHAMAN          BEE                                                     K
POLERS                                                       A.                / C, 
010
0                    3                    6 KILOMETERS
I L I I 
PROPOSED PROJECT:
A  A  A      Resectioning/Raising Existing Low Embankrimenis
rn .   s   r ,.   ThE bAr 1 r t s, dtt ru IIW  rbP nr   o                             New Embankments or Resectioning/Raising Existing Trocks
. c> ., .-k   row   . h   l 1   N     a-   N   **   r4-
P. V rt wx It. 'w u N 0to rJEWw rFC. CawaIar UN ax-A--                                             New Drainage Canals
Nival WQ                    ar"01111,11:. Io                                                       Drains to be Re-excavated
'88 * -*             L . Rver                                                    F °        Flushing Sluices
-26_   3         Brahma.                                                                                Regulators
-26°   i        Aiz-INDIA                                                                     <         Water Control Structures
-  -. -    .  _ .* Rood Improvements
\\ BANd LADESH                                                                                 EXSTNG
t   t   J                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING:
-24      1 D        haka o         24°-                                                    -             Metdled Rood
Portly Meolled/.Unpaved Roods
llrNgl/ (.         %   t-      \   f                                                     >     -       Rivers
LocationR                                                                                 __*_i__  Khols
5* -22°        j       *x\}        'p \     rP                                                             Beels                                                                                            w
AAA UAAA    Retired Embonkments                                                                               v
~i.   BAY     Of    BENGAL    SURMA                                                                     Contours m
0 [.s   ,   .   .                                                                                                                                                                       c



BANGL
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL A
MADHUMATI-NABAG.:
i/ i'       ,6ati~~otak         . .       ~      \~kmasu
Knm/rkholi /  /                                                                           ,
20.,,/ffi/AlS,                 1 ,,__2
Lahuric~
Ck                            '0                             =                            0m
ceoinodonya1- II'
Durgopur/                                           Ab >V""                            | ¼
A,,,,     I  s=Binodpur
-24   Dha m S    24 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aat'
LoguIo1b~/,/~..#
N,h,~~~~~~~~~~
Re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaapr\
26-                  26'
IDA
-24"        Dh.aka.   24' -
INDIA CU?. 
Location I 
-27~~~~~~~~~~~'



IBRD 18560
ESH
D DRAINAGE PROJECT
IGA SUB-PROJECT                                                     Bhir
4                                 N ikd/    '               'a
I      ~~~                                     fr I', hg*r/
Dhopcda s  '
-    0  S  /  R guhror~ ~ ~ ~~*plfo
.  J                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PROJtECT:
10-  _ i R   <                                                ^  ^  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Embanktments
-              0  -                            R     uKolochndpuo                   cm      Regu;laors    n
=  <_  >   ,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING:
f  -   ;/                                                   --_    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Partly AMPolbod Roods
2^0---                                           ;                                            Unnmeiaed Roads
Si, ,//                                                        ,  ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
I  I~~~~~~~~on
Q   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                        T~~~~~~Rivems
'7Wdi>                                                                                           Moin DnoguxjeaKhmas
Qegulotor                                                                                       KhRs
Beals
'0  ^ a .Poved Embankments
A- * *&   Embonk fnenh
u        Regulators
-- --Roo3Imp-ve Contours
0        ~       ~~3 61OLOMETERS
,E,2I   I                                                                            Railways
0              2              4 ALES
FEuUAoRY 1985






