Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15977
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Cr. 1591-BD)
September 4, 1996
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
FY 86  FY 87  FY 88  FY 89  FY 90  FY 91  FY 92  FY 93  FY 94
USSI.OO equivalent in Takas    29.20  30.68  31.34  32.00  33.42  35.58  37.77  39.26   39.89
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BWDB        Bangladesh Water Development Board
DAE         Department of Agricultural Extension
DOF         Department of Fisheries
FCD         Flood Control and Drainage
FCD III     Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
FCD IV      Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
PMU         Project Management Unit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
WB          World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE ..............
EVALUATION SUMARY    ..ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                 .         .I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .....I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                              .3
Factors Not Generally Subject to Govermnent Control             .3
Factors Generally Subject to Govermnent Control              .3
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control .......................................5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABLITY                                   .6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                     .6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                     .7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                   .8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                    .8
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
I . Summary of Assessments .10
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
3. Project Timetable                                                                  13
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                          14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their
official duties. Its contenls may not othenise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................  17
7.  Studies Included in Project ...................................  17
8A. Project Costs ....................................                                                   18
8B. Project Financing ....................................                                               18
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................  19
10. Status of Legal Covenants S ...................................  20
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............                   ....................... 22
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................                                     22
13. Bank Resources: Missions ...................................                                         23
APPENDICES
1.    Aide Memoire
2.    Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
3.    Agriculture Tables
MAP #: IBRD 18549



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1591-BD)
Preface
1.        This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Flood Control and Drainage
Project (FCD-III) in Bangladesh. for which Cr. 159 1-BD in the amount of SDR 50.1 million (US$48.0
million equivalent at that time) was approved on May 7. 1985 and made effective on November 19. 1985.
2.        The Credit was closed with one year delay on June 30, 1994. On August 17, 1993 an amount
of SDR 3.0 million out of the Credit was cancelled, while at the final disbursement date of July 14, 1994,
the remainder outstanding balance of SDR 3.97 million was also cancelled. Co-financing for the project
was provided for technical assistance and training by UNDP and the Government of the Republic of South
Korea.
3.     This draft ICR was prepared by a missionI from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
which visited Bangladesh from March 14 to March 30, 1995. 2 It is based on material in the project files at
the Bank office in Dhaka. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the draft ICR by providing
required data and participating in finalizing the Aide-Memoire.
ISee Appendix I for Aide-Memnoire.
2 Mr. Dirk J. Lens (Project Analyst/Mission Leader) and Volker Branscheid (Land and Water Development
Engineer).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1591-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Third Flood Control and Drainage Project (FCD-III) was designed and implemented as
part of the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB) policy to promote full use of the productive potential of the
country's scarce land resources by controlling floods, improving drainage and increasing access to
irrigation. The project was similar in objectives and design to several then on-going projects, including two
supported by other IDA credits (Cr. 864-BD for FCD-I and Cr. 1184-BD for FCD-1I) A feasibility study,
financed by IDA's fourth technical assistance credit (Cr. 1124-BD) and prepared by the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) wvith the assistance of the Netherlands Development Consultants
(NEDECO), and a review of the two aforementioned IDA projects, had been the basis for the Bank's
appraisal.
Project Objectives
2.        Project objectives were to protect human life, crops and property from floods and to improve
the physical environment for better agricultural practices in three sub-project areas (Gumti, Naogaon and
Madhumati-Nabaganga) covering a total net command or agricultural area of 104,500 ha.  Further
envisaged were establishment of new surface-water irrigation facilities and irrigation improvement for an
overall area of 14.350 ha in Gumti. Finally, the project was to strengthen BWDB implementation capacity.
To achieve these objectives the project included: (i) construction and rehabilitation of embankments, water
control structures, drainage channels and irrigation facilities, and upgrading of roads; (ii) support to
BWDB to improve the planning, design, and monitoring of FCD projects, and to improve land acquisition
and operation and maintenance of works, and (iii) the preparation of programs for development of
agriculture and fisheries within the entire project area.
3.        During implementation some infrastructure works that were initially envisaged under the SAR
were either modified or eliminated.  Some of these changes led to cost increases and others to cost
reductions. A significant cost increase occurred due to the heightening of several embankments by one
meter as a result of a redefinition of the design flood criteria following the catastrophic floods of 1987 and
1988. Omissions/modifications that led to cost reductions include elimination of construction of the
Kalikapur sub-polder (about 650 ha) from the Naogaon sub-project, and the reduction of the irrigation and
drainage sub-components of the Gumti sub-project.
4.        Although special loan covenants to promote project objectives were included in the DCA, their
effectiveness has been mixed. The covenant (DCA Section 3.03) to accelerate land acquisition was only
partly complied with and did not have the expected results. The design of agricultural and fisheries



iii
development programs to be prepared under the project (DCA, Schedule 4, para 5) for the preceding
project (FCD II - Cr. 1184-BD) and this project have been completed. A follow-up action plan has been
proposed, which is being revised and will be shortly ready for implementation.
Implementation and Results
5.        The project has achieved most of its flood control objectives. While some project components
for irrigation and drainage were dropped as uneconomic, the components completed are expected to achieve
most of their agricultural objectives within the next three years. However, increased costs, a lengthened
construction period and unfavorable impact on fisheries have reduced estimated economic returns to
marginal levels, and poor O&M raises severe risks to sustainability. The technical assistance component,
which was mainly financed by UNDP, was implemented satisfactorily but it's lasting effect is doubtful,
particularly for the operation and maintenance component. The strengthening of BWDB has been a
continuing process which was also supported by the two preceding IDA projects (Cr. 864-BD and Cr. 1184-
BD) as well as by the immediately succeeding project in the same sector, namely, the Fourth Flood Control
and Drainage Project (FCD IV) or Cr.1784-BD (see Part 11, Table 2). Despite continued support to
BWDB for more than two decades, the results of water sector projects have been mixed. Construction was
completed for most projects by Credit closing but arrangements for operation and maintenance are
inadequate up to now.
6.        The main unfavorable impact of FCD-III concerns the project's likely adverse effect on flood
plain fisheries. A fish culture program in the polder's ponds is being implemented to mitigate floodplain
fisheries losses. However, while fish culture may compensate for reduced floodplain fish catch, it would
not fully compensate for either the income loss of inland fishermen (who belong to the lowest social
stratum) or the loss of fish bio-diversity. Consequently, GOB should actively pursue and ensure that the
recommendations emanating from the project-supported agricultural and fisheries development programs
(para 4) and any further follow-up recommendations to redress this issue that are available are fully
implemented as part of post-project operations plan. IDA has indicated willingness in principle to consider
financing under the ongoing Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP - Cr. 2099-BD) of any mitigation
measures that can be completed before the December 30, 1997 SRP Closing Date. Thereafter, mitigating
measures are being considered under a proposed Water Sector Rehabilitation Project under preparation.
7.        Maintenance of the structures is the responsibility of BWDB but is at present hardly being
done.  Similarly, no routine maintenance work has been carried out on the embankment and the
embanmanent roads. O&M initially fell behind schedule due to delays in completion of project works.
However, inadequate efforts were made to prepare O&M systems to be operational as works were
completed. Presently, there appears to be no O&M system in place even though an O&M Manual was
developed under the SRP in 1993. This manual defines BWDB's role and requires beneficiary participation
and is to be used as a guideline for the maintenance of the polder embankments and related structures.
Prior to the field visit of the ICR mission, BWDB prepared and submitted O&M plans for all the three sub-
projects based on the SRP O&M Manual. Implementation of these O&M plans is now the highest priority.
(The likelihood of adequate maintenance of a portion of the project is increased in this case by the
subsequent pavement of roads on top of about 50% of the embankmnents.)
8.        The SAR estimated total project cost at US$65 million. At project completion, actual total
cost was US$81.2 million. However, favorable movements in SDR/US$ and US$/Taka exchange rates



iv
during project implementation period and supplementary GOB financing permitted funding of increased
cost despite the fact that some SDR 7 million out of the IDA Credit have been canceled.
9.        Of the seven years originally planned for project implementation, four were intended for the
construction of the infrastructure and three for O&M of the works. Unfortunately, the construction phase
was spread over the entire eight years and not even O&M of completed works was initiated., a key element
for assuring project sustainability. The main reason for this delay has been problems in land acquisition
which is the responsibility of the Borrower. Mainly as a consequence of these delays and the changes in
design (see paras 10 & II below), the ERR of all three sub-projects is lower than estimated at appraisal,
i.e. Gumti - about 14%; Naogaon - about 11% and Madhumati-Nabaganga - about 11%.
10.       Embankment heights and hence costs for the Gumti I and Naogoan polders were increased
because of changes in the design flood levels. At appraisal, the Gumti I sub-project flood embankments
were designed on a single project basis to the BWDB standard which specified protection against flooding
up to the one-in-20 year flood level. However, it was recognized during appraisal that multiple polder
projects within the same river basin would cause design flood levels to increase for the same flood return
period. Accordingly, the appraisal for FCD Ill project in July 1984, included technical assistance for a
basin-wide study to determine the new flood level. The Gumti 11 study was completed before the actual
construction of the embankments of Gumti I and recommended that the original embankment height for
Gumti I be increased by about one meter, as a result of which the cost also increased.
IL.       At the same time, and independently of the entire Gumti exercise, BWDB changed its design
criterion from a "one-in-20 year flood event" to "the highest flood level ever" in view of the unprecedented
high water levels in rivers during the 1987 and 1988 floods. By pure coincidence, this level was about
equal to the redefined embankments height of Gumti I already estimated by the Gumti 1I Basin study and
thus did not really affect the Gumti I polder. In contrast, the new BWDB criterion did affect the Naogaon
polder which had to be increased by one meter. while the Madhumati-Nabaganga polder was not at all
affected since the new and old BWDB criterion led to the same flood level for this particular polder.
12.       Three deficiencies are noted in IDA handling of the above issues during appraisal and
implementation:
(i)      As the appraisal team was apparently fully aware of the fact that Gumti II was
under serious consideration (the study of the Gumti Basin needed for the appraisal
of Gumti 1I was part of the FCD III project), the embankment height required to
acconimodate Gumti 11 should have been determined and applied at appraisal and
the costs concerned included in its estimate of project cost and its economnic
analysis:
(ii)     BWDB's decision to change its design criterion from a "one-in-20 year flood
event" to "the highest flood level ever" should have been recognised as a serious
policy issue, affecting not only this project but all past and future flood control
projects, and the effects of this decision should have been the subject of thorough
economic analysis and policy discussion; and



V
(iii)    when BWDB or its consultants had recalculated the ERR on the basis of the
increased costs due to the heightening of the embankments. the Bank should have
considered the increased heights on the basis of its oWnl review rather than just
accepting the BWDB's consultants' recalculation.
13.        Another, more general, appraisal deficiency concerned the fact that although appraisal had
claimed that measures would be introduced to minimize the increased flood hazard resulting from the
possible shifts in floods through the intervention of the project, nothing was actually done. Similarly.
relying on a study during implementation to design fisheries mitigation measures reflects what by today's
standards would be considered inadequate preparation.
14.        The estimated economic rates of return of 11-14% for the three sub-projects could be regarded
as marginally satisfactory. However, the key to achieving these rates of return is progress in carrying out
planned measures to ensure project sustainability (i.e., to ensure adequate execution of the O&M program
recently designed by BWDB) and to mitigate fisheries losses. Given the disappointing performance of
current efforts to improve O&M  under the ongoling SRP, the estimated outcome, considering the risks of
inadequate O&M  performance, is rated as unisatisfactory.  However. good performance on O&M  and
fisheries mitigation measures could raise the final outcome to a satisfactory level.
15.        Borrower perfonrance is also regarded as unsatisfactory.  Works that were intended to be
completed in four years took eight y'ears to complete. O&M of completed works had not been initiated by
project completion, and work required for sustainability is only now being started. IDA performance must
also be regarded as unsatisfactorv. The project as designed at appraisal included some components which
had to be dropped later as uneconomic. The appraisal mission took inadequate notice of: (i) project effects
on fisheries; (ii) project effects on those living outside the benefited area who are affected by higher flood
levels due to the project embankments; or (iii) the possibility of future projects under active consideration
affecting the design requirements.  Supervision. while generally quite good, even meticulous, was
inadequate in handling the issues of proposed chaniges in embankment heights and overall design standards
(see para 12), i.e., the thvo decisions that were policy-related.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.       Despite being identified as a possible risk, the difficulties with land acquisition were significantly
underestimated. This has been the principal obstacle to timely project implementation and contributed to the
reduction in the ERRs.
17.        The BWDB's Operation Wing will be responsible for O&M  of the infrastructure and thus for
project sustainabilitv. It is BWDB's intentioni to involve the polder beneficiaries in O&M. The limited
funds which are available are largely used for setting up BWDB's Operation Wing and little is left for
doing the actual maintenance wvork. BWDB has recently prepared O&M  plans to deal Xvith these issues.
and implementation of these plans must be undertaken with highiest priority.
18.        Key lessons learned are that: (i) Board presentation prior to detailed enginieerinig investigationi and
design increases the risk of need to modify project componients and of pre-constructioni delays. (ii) market studies
on land values ought to be undertaken before credit negotiation or credit effectiveness to ensure that land
acquisition compensations offered are fair; (iii) to facilitate and arrive at a sound embanikimienit design a study of the
overall river basin development, rather than of merely the project area located within the river basin, should be



vi
carried out; (iv) environmental issues (particularly fisheries and flood externalities) should be addressed well in
advance of project appraisal: (v) adequate and timely O&M plans and availability of funds for post-project
sustainability should be ensured by the Borrower in close participation with the beneficiaries, (vi) public
consultation should take place to incorporate local knowledge and ensure acceptability of proposed designs; and
(vii) consideration of any proposals for major changes in design standards should be based upon recalculation by
the Bank of the expected ERRs.
M: FCD31CR\BGD-3EVA.SMP
9/4i 1996 01:40 PM






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROTECT
(Credit 1591-BD)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.     The main objectives of the project were: (a) to protect against crop losses, loss of life and
property damage due to floods; (b) to improve the physical environment to allow farmers to adopt
improved agricultural practices; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB). The project consisted of three sub-projects (Gumti Phase 1, Naogaon Polder I and
Madhumati-Nabaganga) which were designed to provide flood control and drainage (FCD) to
104,500 ha and irrigation for 14,350 ha. About 115,000 farm families or about 670,000 people were
expected to benefit. The project interventions included: (i) the construction and rehabilitation of
embanknents, water control structures, drainage channels and irrigation facilities and the upgrading of
roads; (ii) support to BWDB to improve the planning, design, and monitoring of FCD projects, and to
improve land acquisitions and operation and maintenance procedures; and (iii) the preparation of
programs for further development of agriculture and fisheries within the project area.
2.     The SAR Nvas based on a feasibility report commissioned by BWDB and prepared by
intemational consultants (NEDECO). The final design of project facilities was completed by BWDB
during implementation with the help of technical assistance (local and intemational) provided under the
project. Due to appraisal prior to completion of final designs, some items originally included in the SAR
were later dropped or modified (see paras 10). Two changes in the design criteria for embankment
height were adopted during project implementation and they significantly increased civil works costs in
two of the three polders. However, the resulting increase in costs of the project were partly compensated
by the elimination or modification of other items under the project (see para 8).
3.     The overall objectives of the project were sound and clearly defined. They were in line
with GOB's policy of promoting full use of the productive potential of the country's scarce land
resources by controlling floods, improving drainage and increasing access to irrigation. While the
SAR recognized that the project would adversely affect floodplain fisheries and increase flooding
in adjacent areas, to date no effective mitigation or compensation plans have been implemented by
GOB. IDA has indicated willingness in principle to consider financing under the ongoing BWDB
System Rehabilitation Project (SRP--Cr.2099-BD) of any mitigation measures that can be
completed before the December 30, 1997 SRP Closing Date. Thereafter mitigating measures are
being considered under a proposed Water Sector Rehabilitation Project under preparation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The majority of the project's flood control objectives have been achieved. While only 30% of
the irrigation component and 40% of the drainage was completed, for the components completed the
projected agricultural benefits are expected to be achieved. The polders have been established and



2
agriacultal production has increased wihout any further project intervetion. Yields are substantially
higher than in adjacent areas outside the project Most farmers living in the project polders have been
able to cultivate their land without fear of floods, which has led to the inroduction of higher value crops,
even though the polders have been operating for only a year. It is expected that the polders should reach
full agriculhural production levels projected respectively for irrigated and non-irrigated portions of the
polders over the next three years. However, increased costs, a lengtned construction peirod and
unfavorable impacts on fisheries have reduced estimated economic returns to marginal levels. Poor
O&M raises severe risks to sustainability.
5.     The technical assistance component, which was mainly financed by UNDP, has been
implemented satisfactorily (see para 29). Some 595 staff' have been trained during the project.
The close working relationship of the Task Manager at the Bank's office in Dhaka with the Project
Management Unit (PMU) has been beneficial to BWDB in terms of prioritizing of problems and
issues, and problem solving. Despite all these effort and despite the successful training, the lasting
effect of the technical assistance component on BWDB performance has been limited.
6.     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value (NPV - opportunity cost of
capital 12%) has been estimated for all three sub-projects. The presently estimated ERRs (which range
from about 11% to 14%) are significantly lower than those estimated at appraisal (which ranged from
16% to 28%), as are the newly estimated NPVs. Main reasons for the less than expected performance in
economic terms are: (i) the higher than expected investment cost - all expressed in 1994 Taka (in the case
of Gumti and Naogaon it nearly doubled, while it increased by about 40% in the Madhumati-Nabaganga
sub-project) and (ii) the more than doubling of the investment period (for Gumti about four years and for
the other two sub-projects five years each). The Naogaon sub-project economic performance suffered
the most. Its ERR dropped from an expected 28% to an actual 11% and its NPV from an anticipated
Tk 468 million to minus TIk 37.2 million. The main reason for its poorer economic performance was the
serious delay in benefits and the much higher fish production loss it had to suffer in comparison with the
two other sub-projects and which was not taken into account in the SAR (see Pant I, Table 9 and
Appendix 2).
7.     Although the project has satisfactorily achieved most of the flood protection objectives of the
project (the exception being protection of Naogoan town, see para 12), it has had an adverse impact on
the environment and the livelihood of the floodplain fishermen. Polder construction has impeded the free
movement of several fish species to their spawning grounds and jeopardised the existence of these
species. Floodplain fishenmen are experiencing reduced catches and now need to obtain permission for
fishing the areas within the project's polders which were formerly an open access common property
resource. An attempt is being made to compensate for the decrease in fish catch through promoting
culture fisheries, but this would neither benefit the floodplain fishermen, nor help mitigate the
environmental concerns about diminution of fish species. In this situation, GOB should actively pursue
the recmmendations of the agricultral and fisheries development studies financed under the project
(par 23) and ensure that they are fully implemnted as part of post-project operations plan. As far as
can be deemined, there has been no attempt to mitigate or compensate for increased flood hazard
outside and upstream of the polders. It is extremely important that people disbenefited by the project are
adequately compensated to avoid group action to (a) restore fisheries losses and (b) attempt to alleviate
increased flooding through breaching of the projects' embankments.
i Trainer, executive development, training policy and strategy, and O&M courses.



3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
8.     During implementation four project components originally envisaged were omitted or
changed for reasons beyond Government control: (i) omission of the Kalikapur sub-polder (about
2                                      .  3
650 ha) in the Naogaon subproject, (ii) reduced irrigation in the Gumti sub-project; (iii) reduced
drainage canals from 821 km to 316 kin; and (iv) reduced length of new embankinents from 212
kmto 129km.
9.     The changes to project design were caused by the fact that IDA went ahead with appraisal
on the basis of preparatory work carried out by consultants without prior detailed engineering
investigation and design. Subsequent detailed design showed that the Gumti irrigation component
and Kalikapur sub-polder were not economic. It is not clear from the information available if the
reduction in the drainage component was the result of a rational reappraisal of drainage needs or
was a response to reduce overall project cost overrun caused by greatly increased embankment
costs. However, GOB should be given credit for canceling the SAR project components which
were subsequently found to be uneconomic.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
10.    Five problems should be highlighted: (i) land acquisition; (ii) omission of about one km
length of embankment that left the town of Naogaon prone to floods in a one in five year event
(instead of one in 20); (iii) an increase of the embankment height by about one meter in the Gumti
and Naogaon sub-projects; (iv) fisheries losses; and (v) increased flood risk of adjacent areas as
result of the project.
ll.   The land acquisition for construction of the embankments and drainage channels was
rather cumbersome, not only due to resistance of the local population but also due to obstacles at
local political and ministerial levels. The local resistance reflects in part inadequate compensation
levels and procedures. As a consequence of delays in land acquisition, completion of construction
was delayed by four years4 and the O&M, envisaged by the SAR to be undertaken over the last
three years of the project, had barely commenced at project closure. Unfortunately, the lack of
O&M on civil works completed earlier in the project is already apparent and their sustainability
already in doubt (para 24).
12.   The omission of a length of embankment at Naogoan was due to the insistence of
inhabitants in the town not to construct the embankments within the town itself and is indicative of
inadequate public consultation during project design. This omission will not affect the Naogaon
polder which is partially-protected against floods by a highway east of the town and constructed at
the same level as the embankment. However, this highway can only provide full protection once its
cross-drainage culverts are gated. As far as the ICR mission could determine, GOB is not taking
any steps to provide alternative flood protection to Naogaon town.
2 Dropped due to high cost per ha.
3 Only 3.700 ha have been covered rather than 14.350 ha anticipated at appraisal due to a 10-fold cost
increase for the envisaged pumping system.
4Three for Gumiti.



4
13.    Embankment heights and hence costs for the Gumti I and Naogoan polders were increased
because of changes in the design flood levels.  At appraisal, the Gumti I sub-project flood
embankrnents were designed on a single project basis to the BWDB standard which specifies
protection against flooding up to the one-in-20 year flood level. However, it was recognized
during appraisal that multiple polder projects within the same river basin would cause design flood
levels to increase for the same flood return period. Accordingly, the appraisal for FCD III project
in July 1984, included technical assistance for a basin-wide study to determine the new flood level.
The Gumti II study was completed before the actual construction of the embankments of Gumti I
and recommended that the original embankment height for Gumti I be increased by about one
meter, as a result of which the cost also increased.
14.    At the same time. and independently of the entire Gumti exercise, BWDB changed its
design criterion from a "one-in-20 year flood event" to "the highest flood level ever" in view of the
unprecedented high water levels in rivers during the 1987 and 1988 floods. By pure coincidence,
this level was about equal to the redefined embankments height of Gumti I already estimated by the
Gumti II Basin study and thus did not really affect the Gumti I polder. In contrast, the new BWDB
criterion did affect the Naogaon polder which had to be increased by one meter, while the
Madhumati-Nabaganga polder was not at all effected since the new and old BWDB criterion led to
the same flood level for this particular polder.
15.    The project's possible effect on nigration of certain fish species was recognized at
appraisal, but little action was proposed other than studies on how to minimize this effect. No such
study was included in the final project design and, even if it had been, it would have been of little
use, since such studies should be carried out prior to project implementation. The only study
carried out concerned the preparation of plans to harvest the residual fisheries potential after
project completion. Government and the appraisal mission must have been aware of the project's
possible adverse effects on the flood plain fisheries (in terms of the environment and of the
fishermen's catch) and should have taken a strong stand on this and insisted that the study be
carried out prior to project design. Indications are that about 7.000 fisherman5 have been deprived
of catch in the order of several thousands of tons per year.
16.   It was recognized during appraisal that the project could shift floods to other areas not yet
protected from flooding. While GOB took no action to identif, or mitigate these impacts resulting
from the project. it was clearly recognized in the parallel basin-wide planning activities for Gumti
phase II that additional polders in the same region would raise flood water levels by up to a meter
because of backwater effects. Similarly, regional planing carried out under the FAP in 1990-92
for the north west region clearly highlighted the drainage congestion in the Atrai river caused by
the Naogoan polder which causes external flooding earlier and delays upstream drainage.
17.    Government has recently recognized in their Bangladesh Water and Flood Management
Strategy (September 1995). the complexity of water resources planning. the critical importance of
beneficiary participation in project design and O&M. and the need for a more complete
understanding of the flood plain ecology - including fisheries - before embarking on new rural flood
control and drainage projects. The Strategy contains a plan for action over the period 1995-2000
and it is anticipated that Government will address the issues related to flood design criteria,
externalities of polder-type projects (including fisheries), and improved national land acquisition
procedures under this plan. Building on the experiences of this and other polder projects, and the
work of FAP. Government has introduced significantly improved procedures for land acquisition,
Para 12 of the Agriculture and Fisheries Study prepared by the project.



5
compensation and resettlement procedures into two new IDA-funded projects (River Bank
Protection Project (Cr. 2791 BD), and Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2783- BD).
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
18.    Day-to-day management by the PMU was satisfactory considering the need to supervise
and coordinate numerous small contractors dispersed over the three subprojects6 throughout
Bangladesh. It also dealt successfully with ICB procedures under which the contract for the
important Gotia Beel embankment of the Naogaon subproject was awarded and the construction of
which has been rated as highly satisfactory. Noteworthy also has been PMU's positive approach
in dealing with land acquisition where it occurred, which avoided extensive resettlement common in
other similar projects in Bangladesh. It largely avoided acquisition of homesteads, gardens, ponds
etc. in the subproject areas except in Gumti, and prevented any beneficiary becoming landless.
This was possible because of the isolation of the PMU from BWDB at large.
19.    The flood protection aspects of the project are of particular relevance in the Gumti
subproject where more than 400,000 persons are at risk of inundation if the previous highest flood
level is exceeded. In such a case, breaching of embankments would be at an unpredictable location
with tremendous force. Flood warning systems and fuse plugs should have been installed to flood
the polder in a more controlled manner. At the time. these concepts were not known in Bangladesh
and the first pilot project testing such concepts has only started recently. It is not too late to do this
retroactively.
20.    BWDB advocated a change in flood level protection after appraisal which affected the
Gurnti and Naogaon sub-projects in that their embankment levels and hence their costs had to be
increased (see paras 13).  The costs of these increases were covered through cost-effective
alterations and omissions in the final designs (para 8).
21.    The increase in embankment heights of the Gumti and the Naogaon sub-projects would
increase the flood levels in the adjacent polders since their embankments were constructed on a one
in five year confined basis. This would increase the risk of farmers of the adjacent polders
breaching the project embankments in the belief that the flood level in their own polders would
significantly decrease. With better public relations and information dissemination by BWDB these
risks could be substantially reduced.
22.    The recommendation made during appraisal to forfeit cropping of river beds on publicly-
owned lands could not be fully implemented. The ICR mission observed that much of the river bed
is in fact cropped, giving rise to higher floods than anticipated.
23.    The studies on agriculture and fisheries in the completed polders were done generally
satisfactorily except that: (i) no comparative analysis was made on fishery production with the
earlier Base Line Study, and (ii) evaluation of project works was deficient - due to inconsistencies
in data presentation. The collaborative action plan had been prepared but was flawed and is now
being revised.
6 In addition. PMU also looked after FCD-IV



6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.    Project sustainability depends upon the ability of BWDB's Operational Wing to effectively
maintain the works.  Experience with the existing 40 polders throughout the country is not
encouraging, partially due to lack of O&M funds. Beneficiaries' participation in maintenance is not
yet common and embankment cuts are done occasionally by the public for various motives
including flood release by outsiders,7 drainage by insiders and for irrigation and fisheries.
Moreover, due to the late completion of civil works, operations began only recently and an
appropriate O&M system has not yet been introduced. First deteriorations are visible on structures
and embankments, brick roads are undulating and eroding due to heavy traffic and bricks are
pilfered. Unless adequate funding of O&M is ensured and the benefiting public is involved in
maintenance of at least the embankments and the drainage channels (as is customary in other
countries), through, for instance Water Management Associations, sustainability would be
uncertain. BWDB has recentiv prepared O&M plans to deal with these issues, and successful
implementation of these plans is required for project sustainability.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
25.    IDA appraised the project based on preliminary designs and cost estimates which resulted
in considerable changes of items and components during implementation when detailed design was
carried out (see para 2).  During appraisal insufficient attention has beeni given to reaching
agreement on overall design criteria. including those related to flood by-passes or controlled
flooding and mitigation against the loss of fisheries, although the severity of the 1987 and 1988
floods could not have been foreseen. These led to the change of the design criteria for the levels of
the embankments.
26.    Three deficiencies are noted in IDA handling of embankment height issues (para 13 & 14)
during appraisal and during implementation:
a) As the appraisal team was apparently fully aware of the fact that Gumti 11 was under
serious consideration at the time (the study of the Gumti Basni needed for the
appraisal of Gumti 11 Nvas part of the FCD III project), the embankment height
required to accommodate Gumti II should have been determined and applied by
appraisal and the costs concerned included in its estimate of project cost and its
economic analysis:
b) BYWDB's decision to change its design criterion to "the highest flood level ever"
should have been recognized as a serious issue, affecting not only this project but all
past and future flood control projects, and the effect of this decision should have been
the subject of thorough economic analysis and policy discussion; anid
c) When BWDB or its consultants had recalculated the ERR on the basis of the
increased costs due to the heightening of the embankments, the Bank should have
As adjacent polders would flood first, their inhabitants would in all likelihood breach the higher
embankments of the project. as they would be fallaciously convinced that such action would release the
flood waters in their own polders.



7
considered the increased height on the basis of its own review rather than just
accepting the BWDB's consultants' recalculation.
27.    Appraisal also ignored two possible environmental consequences that the project could
bring about, i.e. possible hindrance to the migration of certain species of fish in the project area
and possible shift of floods to areas not yet protected from floods. SAR claimed to introduce
measures in the project design to minimize any negative impact on natural fisheries. No such
measures, other than operational (opening and closing of gates at critical periods of fish migration),
were listed in the SAR or implemented by the project.8 Likewise, SAR claimed that a study was
being carried out to measure the impact of the project polders on the adjacent areas and that
sufficient flexibility had been built into the project design to allow the undertaking of corrective
action in light of new information. No evidence of such studies could be found by the ICR
mission; also no funds had been allocated for any of these actions under this project.
28.    IDA assigned a Task Manager from its Resident Mission in Dhaka which allowed close
and continuous supervision and frequent contact with the PMU. Ten supervision missions were
fielded and the problems of implementation were clearly spelled out.  Particularly the land
acquisition problem was highlighted by all missions. Reporting was done in great detail and is
rated as highly satisfactory. However, supervision was inadequate in handling the issues of
proposed changes in embankment heights and overall design standards (para 26), i.e., the two
decisions that were policy related.
29.    Although the IDA was not responsible for technical assistance and training, it should be
mentioned that it was successfully completed, even though with some delay. UNDP conducted an
evaluation of this component (for which it was mainly responsible), the outcome of which had been
rated satisfactory. The technical assistance funded by the Government of the Republic of South
Korea, which was mainly concerned with the design aspects, has also been satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.    The detailed designs of civil works have been prepared quite satisfactorily by the Borrower
and its consultants with the exception of the flood protection aspects (see para 19). The Borrower
established a competent PMU and effectively used its BWDB field offices for implementation of
civil works.
31.    Nevertheless, some of the works have still not been completed for a variety of reasons.
These include: (i) one km of embankment in the town of Naogaon (resisted by the popu!ation); and
(ii) 14 irrigation inlet gates in the Madhumati-Nabaganga sub-project (not placed). In addition,
some work in the Madhumati-Nabaganga sub-project needs to be redone, such as misfitted gates,
loose gate lifting devices or a low road crossing. Of the three sub-projects, the works performed in
the Gumti sub-project have been considered the most satisfactory.
32.    The operation of polder regulators is either done by farmers' representatives or by BWDB
staff on the instructions of farmers' committees.  BWDB staff participates in the committee
The project financed agriculture and fishery studies did look into the adverse effects of the project on
the flood plain fishery. As anticipated these studies were completed only in August 1994 and thus io
measures as yet have been taken to mitigate the adverse effects of the polders on flood plain fisheries.



8
meetings and advises as necessary. Maintenance of structures is the responsibility of BWDB even
though this so far has been hardly done. Similarly, no routine maintenance work has been carried
out on the embankment and the embankment roads. At the initial stage of the project, O&M was
delayed due to the continuous lag in land acquisition, which delayed construction and maintenance.
O&M plans for the project works have been recently prepared by BWDB with the help of an
overall O&M Manual which was developed in 1993 under the Flood Action Plan. This manual
stipulates BWDB's involvement and has emphasized beneficiary participation. (The likelihood of
adequate maintenance for a portion of the project is increased in this case by the subsequent
pavement of roads on top of about 50% of the embankments.)
33.    All nine studies to be prepared under the project have been completed largely satisfactorily
(see Part II, Table 7). On the basis of the Agricultural and Fisheries Studies, a collaborative action
plan was prepared by BWDB, the Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE), and the
Department of Fisheries (DOF). This plan was found unsatisfactory, since the Engineering and
Development Program had been based on inadequate data regarding the amount and condition of
the project's civil works. A revision is under way.
34.    BWDB is now implementing the recommendations that have been made by the Institutional
Capability Study financed under the Credit which made specific suggestions to strengthen its
institutional capacities in planning, construction, operation and maintenance. It was understood
that so far, funding does not appear to be a problem.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.    Certain embankments were increased above SAR design level; irrigation facilities over
10,000 ha were not constructed due to the excessive cost involved; and one km length of
embankment was deleted because of disagreements among the beneficiaries, which left the
Naogaon town prone to floods once every five years, as before, instead of the once in 20 years
intended. On the other hand, the embankments have been constructed and farmers in the polders
have increased cropping intensity and are cultivating high-yielding and high value crops. ERRs of
11-14% for the three sub-projects could be regarded as marginally satisfactory. However, the key
to achieving these rates of return is progress in carrying out planned measures to ensure project
sustainability (i.e. to ensure implementation of the recently designed O&M program) and to
mitigate fisheries losses. Given the disappointing performance of current efforts to improve O&M
under the ongoing Systems Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2099-BD), the likely outcome,
considering the risks of inadequate O&M performance, must be downgraded to unsatisfactory.
However, good performance on O&M and fisheries mitigation could raise the final outcome to a
satisfactory level.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.    BWDB's Operation Wing will be responsible for O&M of the project in future. Some
funds are available but these are largely used for establishment (salaries, etc.) and little is left for
actual work. The on-going program of farmers participation (Structure Committees) in operating
small structures should be expanded to also include the larger structures. Full participation of
beneficiaries in maintenance and vigilance of the embankments and the brick roads - as practiced in
other countries - is essential to render the investment sustainable. Some thought should be given to
actually handing over ownership of part of the infrastructure for maintenance and operation by the



9
beneficiaries. Measures have been taken to continue support by IDA of the implementation of
operation and maintenance arrangements under ongoing projects (SRP) and improving O&M
systems is intended to be the focus of a proposed future Water Sector Rehabilitation project which
would also include mitigation measures for past investments
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.    Key lessons learned under this project are:
a) Board presentation prior to detailed engineering investigation and design increases the
risk of need to modify project components and of pre-construction delays;
b) people's participation at project formulation and detailed design stages is necessary to
avoid unacceptable project elements and enhance effectiveness of planning for
implementation and O&M;
c) a study of the overall river basin development and its effects on hydrology, including
flood levels and frequency, rather than merely of the project area within that river
basin, should be carried out to facilitate and arrive at a sound design for flood control,
drainage and irrigation works,
d) land acquisition compensations should be based on land value market studies and the
land acquisition system itself ought to be carefully planned and the bureaucratic
process streamlined before project negotiations or credit effectiveness;
e) FCD projects need to be carefully planned taking due note of possible environmental
consequences (such as reduced fish production and higher flood water elsewhere) and
be designed to include specific measures to mitigate them and also should take into
account in project evaluation the economical losses that may occur;
f) timely preparation of an appropriate O&M  plan and adequate funding for its
implementation are essential to ensure sustainability of project-supported investments.
g) monitoring and evaluating must be broader than just measuring project impact on
project farmers and should include project and control studies to assess the impact of
the project on other project affected people (PAPs), particularly those whose
livelihood is affected by externalities of the project (e.g. fishermen); and
h) consideration of any proposals for major changes in design standards should be based
upon recalculation by the Bank of the expected ERRs.
M:\FCD3ICR\TXTFCDIC.DOC
9/4/1996






BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES






10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1591-BD)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNE=S
Table 1: Summary of Asueumenbt
A. Achievement of obiectives       Substantial     Parial    NeJlipble  Not Aoflicable
Macro policies                      9             3          9            [3
Sector policies                    []          ED           [D            [
Financial objectives               [Ii          ED           FI 
Institutional development          F               ]         ED           ED
Physical objectives                 El                       [Z]          [I]
Poverty reduction                 [| F|                                     El 
Gender issues                      El           F            El 
Other social objectives            E]                        ED           EI]
Environmental objectives           []           El           ZI           El
Public sector management           EII          EI]          [Fi            ]
Private sector development         ED                        El            El
Other (specify)                    ED           Fn          El            m
B. Proiect sustainability          Likelv      Unlikelv    Uncertain
CG    L             E~~~~~



11
Hizehlv
C. IDA performance             satisfactory   Satisfactv   Deficien
Identification 1/ "9                         E9           r9
Preparation assistance            [I           [D           EDn
Appraisal                       ED           EDF   2v
Supervision                     []           [D           E] 3
HiEhiv
D. Borrower performance          satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                      9           E            [9
Implemcntation                               [IE          [ E
Covenant compliance             E] [                      E
Operation (if applicable)       []            K ]
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactor   unsati
I   Not applicable, the project was prepared by NEDECO and BWDB.
v/ Appraisal was based on insufficient design details and ignored the possible adverse environmental effects of the
polders.
v/   Downgraded primarily due to inadequacies in handling issues of proposed changes in embankment heights and
overall design standards.
4   This could be upgraded to satisfactory if the recently prepared O&M plans are effectively implemented,
fisheries losses are fully mitigated, and measures taken to protect outsiders against increased flood risks.



12
Table 2: Related EDA Credits
Loancredit tide                   Purpose                    Yea of appqval                       St-m
Preeding ePweda'
1. Chanpur Irrigption I        To increase yields and cropping            1972                           Clbad
Project (Cr.340-BD)          insenity and sengthn the
agriculural support prog
2. Danirge & Flood Control     To provide flood protection to             1978                           Closed
Project (Cr. 64-BD)          268,000 acres and inmroved
extension service.
3. Small Scale Drinage &       To provide flood protection and             1979                          Cloed
Flood Control Projea          irrigation schemes in about one
(Cr.955-BD)                   nillion acre of which 0.35 million
will be inigated
4. Drainage & Flood            To develop flood control and               1981                           Closed
Control 1 Project            drainage structures for about
(Cr. 1 184-BD)               200,000 acres of land in thfree low
lying acres.
5. BWDB Snuall Schemes         To raise crop production and farm          1985                           Closed
Project (Cr. 1467-BD)        incomes through improvements in
the water regime.
6. Flood Rehabilitation        To rehabilitate the damaged                19S5                           Closed
Project (Cr. 15S7-BD)        facilities due to the flood of
October'84, May'85 Cyclone and
June'85 Cyclone.
FoLouieng operaouns
1. Fourth Flood Control &      To protect cropped areas, people           1927                           Closed
Drainge Project              and property from floods and
(Cr. 1784-BD)                strengthen BWDB.
2. Small Scale Flood Control   To provide for an incremental              1988                           Closed
Drainage and Irrigation I    production of paddy, wheal, jute
Project (Cr. 1870-BD)        etc. through flood protection and
irrigation from minor facilities.
The project would also strengthen
BWDB.
3. Second Flood Rehabilitation  To rehabilitate or replace priority       1982                           Closed
Project (Cr. 1876-BD)        elements of flood-damaged
infrstructure and equipment in
five sub-sectors: flood control,
drainage and irrigation; main
roads, local roads; priority
education; and inland wawer
traunport
4. Third Flood Rehabilitation  To restore priority infrastructure         1989                           Closd
Project (Cr.2048-BD)         damaged by flooding.
5. BWDB Systems                To protect and increae                     1990                         O0-going
Rehabilitation Project       agricultural production through
(Cr.2099-BD)                 rehabilitation and improved
opemtion and maintenance.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                         Date plnned                    Date acual/
latest estimate
Identification                                              _                                   January 1980
Preparation                                                 __                                  January 1984
Appraisal                                                                                         July 1984
Negotiations                                                    March 18, 1985                March 18, 1985
Board presentation                                                 May 1985                     May 7, 1985
Signing                                                                                        May 22, 1985
Effectiveness                                                                                November 19, 1985
Project completion                                            December 31, 1992              December 31, 1993
Credit closing                                                   June 30, 1993                 June 30, 1994
" BWDB and The Netherlands Development Consultants.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
FY86    FY87      FY88       FY89       FY90      FY91     FY92        FY93      FY94
Appraisal cimnae               200    3,500    14,500    26,500      38,500    43,500    45,700     48,000     48,000
Acb*al                        3,520    4,360     9,000    15,450     22,430    32,800    44,280     53,700     57,750 &
Actualas%ofestimate         1,760%    125%        62%       58%        58%       75%       97%        112%      120%Y
Date of funl disbunarnent  July 14, 1994
' On August 17, 1993 SDR3.0 million was cancelled and on July 14, 1994 the balance of SDR 3.97 million was also cancelled.
v' The prcentiles after 1990 are rather misleading since the SDR value vis-a-vis the USS increased.



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project IiupIu.u.maion
Sub-Project Naie: Gumi Phaset-I
Project Arac 37,340 ha
Protected Area: 29,500 ha
I.      Key implementation                        Esidmated                        Actual
indicators in SAR
SAR"         P.P.           Revised                        I
1. Land Acquisition
Structures (ha)                                        6                6                   6
Embankment (ha)                                      402              402                402"
Canals (ha)                                           42                2/
Total (ha)                              778          450              408                408"
2. Flood Embankment                                                       75
New (km)                                106           75               67                  75
Resectioning (km)                        35           67                                   67
21
3. Drainage Canal (BWDB) (km)               -           142              121                 21
FFW Draunage Program (km)                                                                 121
4. Hydraulic Structures                     4                             4
Drainage Regulator (no.)                  2            S               23'                  4
Intake Sluice (no.)                     S0             3               184                  2
LLP Inlets (no.)                                     184                                  184
5. River Train/Protect.               100,000                         39,916
Rivetment (m2)                                     50,000                              39,916
6. Road Works
Resectioning (km)                        41           40              31.6
Improvement (kn)                         14           38                15               31.6
Bridges/Culverts (no.)                                27                                   15
540                           540
7. Buildings (m2)                                      540                                  540
II.     Modified indicators
1. Preconstruction
Soil Investigation (no.)                               14               14                  14
Design (no.)                                           73               73                  73
Contract Award (no.)                                  705              705                705
cont'd/.....
Project Proforrna (P.P.) was based on the final design of the sub-project and the SAR was based on original
feasibility study. Some work-loads of drainage excavation were transferred to Food for Work Program.
2' No land required since canal already existed and work concerned only re-excavation.
31 BWDB decided to delete one since it would adversely effect Gumti Phase II.



15
Sub-Project Name: Naopon Polder-I
Project Ares: 46,100 ha
Protected Area: 37,000 ha
1. Key implementation indicators                 Estimated                        Actual
in SAR                                                                                         l
SAR1'        P.t."         Revised
1. Land Acquisition
Structures (ha)                                    23.81            23.81              23.81
Embankment (ha)                          .        321.70           321.70             320.01
Canals (ha)                                       198.49           198.49             199.87
Total (ha)                             619        544.00           544.00             543.69
2. Embankment                                        32.31
New (kmn)                                6         34.26            32.31              32.31
Resectioning (km)                       84                          34.00              34.00
35.00
3. Drainage Canal (km)                   299        163.00            35.00                 35
FFW Program (km)                                                   163.00              14.45
4. Structures                                            4
Drainage Regulator (no.)                 6             5                4                  4
Flushing Sluice (no.)                    5           141                5                  5
LLP Inlets (no.)                       200             4              141                141
Cross Regulator (no.)                  170             2                4                  4
Water Control Structure (no.)           18                              2                  2
S. Protection Works                                  7,510
Brick Matress (cum)                  15,600       64,629            7,510              7,510
Brick Matress (Beel) (m2)           72,000                         64,629             64,629
61.21
6. Road Works (km)                        22             8            67.21              67.21
Bridges (no.)                           24                              8                  8
2471
7. Buildings (m:)                        540                            995                995
II. Modified indicators
1. Preconstruction
Soil Investigation (no.)                  -           17               17                  17
Design (no.)                                         197              197                 197
Contract Award (no.)                                 650              627                627
cont'd/....
" Project Proforma (P.P.) based on the fnal design of the sub-project and the SAR was based on original
feasibility study. Some work-loads of drainage excavation were transferred to Food for Work Program.



16
Sub-Project Nme: Madhumati-Nabapa
Project Area: 45,000 ha
Procted Area: 38,000 ha
I. Key implementation indicators
in SAR                                         Estimated                       Actual
SARt         p.P. I/       Revised
1. Land Acquisition
Structures (ha)                                   21.47            21.47              21.47
Embankment (ha)                                  369.00           369.00             369.00
Canals (ha)                                      358.87           339.95             338.95
Total (ha)                            776        750.87           729.42             729.42
2. Flood Embankment
New (km)                               100         22.1             22.0              22.00
Resectioning (kcm)                     55         135.32          125.85              125.85
FFW Program                              -            -             9.47               9.47
3. Drainage Canal (km)                   317          204              141              135.82
FFW Program (km)                         -            -               63              16.07
4. Hydraulic Structures
Drainage Regulator (no.)                7             7                7                  7
Flushing Sluice (no.)                  11            15               15               15.00
LLP Inlets (no.)                       80            70               70              70.00
Cross Regulator (no.)                 190            49               49              49.00
5. Road Works (1m)                     101.5        164.42          164.42              164.42
Bridges & Culverts (no.)               98         63.00            64.00              64.00
6. Buildings (m2)                        540         1,337           1,244               1,244
II. Modified indicators
1. Preconstruction
Soil Investigation (no.)                 -                            43                 43
Design (no.)                                                         181                 181
Contract Award (no.)                                                 763                763
Project Proforma (P.P.) based on the funl design of the sub-project and the SAR was based on original
feasibility study. Some work-loads of drainage excavation were transferred to Food for Work Program



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
NVot applicable for this project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpoe as defined
Study                          at appraisal                       Status             [npactof smdy
1. Consuhancy for Design and    Design of FCD II civil works,      Completed                     Impoved infrasruct.
Cosutruction Monitoring         construction monitoring and
preparation of O&M mnnual.
2. Hydrological and             To develop a simulation model to   Completed                     Facilited preparation of
Morphological StUdy of i) Gumti   predict a proper qualitative                                   follow-tap projecL
river basin; ii) Airsi river bain  of the hydulic nd morphological
changes in the river basins associated
with a variety of alterative
development
3. Hydrological Study of Gorsi-    To develop a proper dats bae for  Completed                   Soundly dmigod sub-project
Madhunmti river,                detailed design of the project work.
4. Groundwater Study of         To determine reliable yields from the    As decided in the inter-
Madhunati-Nabapan  Sub-         potential aquifers and to indicate  ministerial meeting held on
Project                         possible number and distribution of    March 12, 1989 the study wa
tubewells.                         suspended.
5. Aerial Photography of the    To deternine major drainage chamel    Completed                  Facilitated preparaion of
project areasof all the three sub-    patterrs, to asesn present land use and                    follow-up project.
projects and also the area of  to prepare contour maps for irrigation
Gumti Phas-II.                 in Gumti Phase-fl.
6. Agriculture and Fisheries    To serve as  basis for modelling the  Comnpleted.                No impact yet
Development (coven the three    neeessary complementary resourcea
sub-projects of FCD-III project).    and services to make optimal use of
the newly improved production
environment.
7. Study of BWDB's Institutional   To review the past studies, ayse  Completed.                  Study recmmetions under
Capability.                     diagnostically and prepare                                       implementation.
recommendations for desirble
improvements along with a timetable
and procedure for implementing such
recommendationsr
S. Bench Mark Survey and       To ases socio-ago-sconomic          Completed.
Evaluation Studies,             conditions before the implementation
of the project.
9. Feasibility Study of Gumti   Flood Control, Drainage and        Study completed and final     No impact yet
Phase 1I Project                Irrigation to an ares of 140,000 ha  report received.
bounded by Meghna, Titas and Gumnti
rivers.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate      ActualAatest esfimate
Itern
Tk million   US$ million   Tk million   USS million
1. Land Acquisition                    223.6        8.6         569.9        16.41
2. Civil Works                         904.8        34.8       1,699.5       47.73
3 .Equipment                            75.4         2.9         10.9        0.33
4. Survey & Investigation              114.4         4.4        119.5        3.56
5. Studies                              49.4         1.9         61.7        1.81
6. Engineering & Administration        122.2        4.7         233.6        6.59
7. Technical Assistance & Training     104.0        4.0         135.7        4.34
8. Operation & Maintenance              96.2        3.7          17.6        0.46
TOTAL                                1,690.0       65.0       2,848.3       81.23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estmate        ActualAatest estimate
Source
Tk million    US$ million    Tk million    US$ million
IDA                               1,248.0        48.0        2,060.5       57.75
UNDP                                85.8         3.3          113.4         3.57
Republic of South Korea             18.2         0.7           22.2         0.70
Domestic contribution              338.0         13.0         652.2        19.21
TOTAL                            1,690.0        65.0        2,848.3       81.23



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits"
Appraisal Estimate              ICR Estimate
Assumptions:
- Project period                       30 years                      30 Years
- Labour cost                    70% of financial wages       70% of financial wages
- Standard Conversion Factor              0.80                          0.90
- Cost of capital                         12%                           12%
Completion of project
embankments:
- Gumti                                 June 1990                     June 1993
- Naogaon                               June 1990                     June 1994
- Madhumnati-Nabaganga                  June 1990                     June 1994
ERR
- Gumti                                    22                           14.1
- Naogaon                                  28                           13.4
- Madihumati-Nabaganga                     16                           11.6
NPV (in Tk million)2/
- Gumti                                    286                         144.5
- Naogaon                                  468                          87.1
- Madhumati-Nabaganga                      78                           -14.4
Farm Family per Crop Income3/
- Gunti
- without project                       Tk 1,710                     Tk 1,961
- with project                         Tk 2,;80                      Tk 2,502
- Naogaon
- without project                      Tk 1,880                      Tk 2,868
- with project                          Tk 2,980                     Tk 3,484
- Madhumati-Nabaganga
- without project                      Tk 1,070                      Tk 2,285
- with project                          Tk 1,420                     Tk 2,791
11 See Appendix 1.
C1 Opportunity cost of capital 12% in SAR as well as ICR.
/ For ICR estimate, see Appendix 3, Tables 2,  and 8.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfilment    fulfilment     Description of
Agreement   Section      type     status      date          date          covenant             Comments
DCA         3.03        5        CP                               Timely acquisition of Part (a) as well as part
lands: (a) BWDB to  (b) were sometimes
submit to Deputy    complied with.
Commnissioners plans Nevertheless, delays in
at least 9 months   land acquisition were a
before land is needed  major impedirnent to
for construction, (b)  timely
BWDB to provide    implementation..
funds, vehicles,
survey equipment and
staff necessary for
processing and
approval.
DCA       4.01 (b)      I         C                               Furnish audit report
(ii) and                                               and a separate
(c) (iv)                                               opinion on
expenditures, on SOE
not later than 9
months after the end
of the Financial Year.
DCA        Sch.4        5        CP          -                    PMU to organize     BWDB has formed
Para. 2                                                quarterly meetings    structure committees to
with farmers and    operate structures and
local bodies and    meetings are arranged
inform GOB and the  from time to time.
Association of results
of such meetings.
DCA        Sch.4        5        CP    December 31,   June 30,   Study to identify ways Study completed and
Para. 4                         1986          1990    to improve BWDB's  phased implementation
motivation in       of recommendations is
planning, design and  progressing.
construction and
furnish findings and
recommendations to
IDA.
DCA        Sch.4        9        CD       July 31,     July 31,   Prepare and fuinishto The studyhas been
Para. 5                         1987          1990    IDA for its comments completed for Cr.1184-
programs for        BD areas and report
agriculture and     has been accepted by
fisheries on: (a) areas BWDB. Consultants
covered under the   submitted draft final
Drainage and Flood   report for similar
Control Project Cr.   studies in areas under
I 184-BD; (b) areas   this project.
under this project.



21
DCA        Sch. 4      12       CD       June 30,    Marrh 31, Complete the        Study has been
Para. 6                        1987         1990    Feasibility Study of   completed. Final report
Gumti Phase IL     received in September
1993.
DCA        Sch. 4      12       CD      June 30,      Dec. 7,  Institutional Study of Study now completed.
Para. 7                        1986         1987    BWDB                Recommendations are
untder implementation.
DCA        Sch. 4      5        C           -           -      Discontinue leasing   However, private lands
Para. 8                                              of public lands in    are being cultivated.
river beds for jute
cultivation.
DCA        Sch. 4      9        C           -           -       lnclusionof
Para. 9                                              compaction stndards
and certification by
BWDB staff that
standards were
maintained before
final pavments are
done.
Covenant Type
I.  Accounts/audit
2.  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3.  Flow and utilization of project funds
4.  Counterpart funding
5.  Management aspects of the project for executing agency
6.  Environmental covenants
7.  Lnvoluntary resettlement
8.  Indigenous people
9.  Monitoring review and reporting
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
Status
C   = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Not complied with
CP = Complied with partially



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank operational rnanual/statement (O/D or OP/BP) was
noticed.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                          Actual
Stage of
project cycle            __ll
Weeks             USS            Weeks            USS
Prior to appraisal (LENP)                                      -            32.5          88,600
Appraisal until negotiation                                    -            55.6         158,400
(LENA)
Negotiations through                                                         5.3          14,900
Board approval (LENN)                                                                          l
Supervision (SPN)                                              -           202.2        452,700
Completion (ICR)                           13 2/          37,600          13.0 3/       37,600 3_
TOTAL                                                                   308.6 3/      752,200 3/
' Source: IDA annual reports on project detail by staff member. (Report: 00SR47).
E Eight of which contributed by FAO/CP.
3/ Tentative estimate.



Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Performance rating i
MontWV         Number           Days in        Specialized      Overall     Development  Compliance    Project    Available       Types
Mission Type               year             of             field         staff skills      Status      Objectives      with      Manage-       Funds     of problems
persons            1/         represented 2V                               Covenants      ment
Identification 41               January 1980                                        . -
Preparation/Pre-Appraisal 4/    January 1984
Appraisal                         April 1985                                       EC, IE (2)
Supervision 1                   October 1986          2              n.a.          EC, IE (2)         2              1            3           2            2           F 
Supervision 2                   October 1987          3              21            EC, IE (2)         2              1            2           2            3
Supervision 3                     July 1989           2              25               IE              3             2             2           3           3
Supervision 4                  December 1989          -
71
Supervision 5                     April 1990          3               18           IE (2) DO          3             2             2           2           3
Supervision 6                     April 1991          3              9             IE (2), DO         3             2             2           2           3
Supervision 7                    March 1992           4              n a.          IE (3), DO         2             2             2           2            1
Supervision 8                  December 1992          3              n.a.          IE (2), DO         2             2             2           2            1
Supervision 9                     May 1993            5              n a.          IE (4), DO         2             2             2           2            1
Supervision 10                  January 1994          3              n.a.          IE (2), DO         2             2             2           2            1
Supervision 11                   June 1994            3              na.           IE (2), DO                       91            W           9'          9
Completion                       March 1995           2             171             IE, EC            IO0           10o          101         101          IO/
From supervision aide-memoires.
2/   EC = Economist; iE = Irrigation Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; 2 = Engineer; A  Agriculturist: H  Hydrologist; DO = Disbursement Officer.
X   These ratings were obtained from the Forms 590 concerned. 1 = Problem free or minor problems: 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
4/  8y private consultants.
u   Supervision mission of October 1986 referred to earlier supervision mission, but no works of this could be found.
6/ Funds given for land acquisition to BWDB, but BWDB had not released the totality of funds to the Deputy Commissioner.
7/  From the record it is gathered that a supervision mission was undertaken in December 1989, but the report could not be traced.
&' Mission time shortened due to political uncertainties and security problems.
9'   F590 was not obtained.
l01 See Table 1.
"'f     Includes FCD IV ICR.



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
APPENDIX 1
AIDE MEMOIRE






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (FCD-III)
(CREDIT 1591-BD)
AIDE-MEMOIRE (MARCH 30, 1995)
Appendix I
Introduction
1.         The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission' from the FAO World Bank
Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) comprising Messrs. D.J. Lens (Project Analyst/Mission Leader)
and V. Branscheid (Land and Water Development Engineer) visited Bangladesh from March 14 to
March 30, 19952 to: (i) assess the project implementation and operation performance, including the
operational plan if prepared; (ii) solicit the Borrower's views in the same; and (iii) advise and support
the Borrower in the preparation of its own contribution to the ICR.
2.         Upon its arrival in Dhaka the mission held meetings with officials from the Project
Management Unit (PMU) of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), the World Bank
Project Task Manager and the FAO Country Representative. Subsequently it undertook field visits to
all project sites where it met and discussed project implementation with BWDB field staff and
representatives of the agricultural extension services, and held interviews with project farmers.
3.         The Aide-Memoire reflects the findings of the mission which was reviewed and agreed
upon first with the Project Task Manager and the PMU, and subsequently with all institutions involved
in the project at a wrap-up meeting held on March 30, 1995 and chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of
Water Resources.  The Aide-Memoire covers: (i) the project's implementation performance and
reasons for its drawbacks; (ii) the status of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan; and (iii) the
In Dhaka the mission recruited the services of Dr. Tajul Islam (Agronornist)
under separate Terms of Reference through the FAO Representative's office to undertake
a rapid assessment of the agricultural situation in the project area.
2 During this period the ICR mission also covered FCD-IV for which a separate
Aide-Memoire has been prepared.



25
Lnpementation Conpletion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Cowtol and Drainage Project
(Cr.1591.BD)
Appendix 1: Aide Memoire
necessary actions to be taken to maintain the project's established infrastructure and to complete the
Government's contribution to the ICR
4.         The mission wishes to thank the staff of PMU, BWDB and the Ministry of Water
Resources for the assistance, cooperation and courtesy they extended to the mission and would like to
express its appreciation on the frankness with which they discussed and reviewed the implementation
issues.
Objectives, Area, Components and Cost of FCD-m
5.         The principle objectives of the project were to (i) protect crops, human life and property
against floods; (ii) enhance agricultural potential; and (iii) strengthen BWDB. The project comprised
128,440 ha3 of flood protection and drainage in three sub-project areas, i.e. Gumti, Naogaon Polder
and Madhumati-Nabaganga and 14,350 ha irrigation improvement in the Gumti sub-project area.
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) components included: land acquisition (13% of project cost); civil works
(54%); studies (3%); technical assistance and training (6%); operation and maintenance (O&M - 6%);
and others (18%  - covering equipment, surveys and  investigations, and  engineering and
administration).  Total project cost was estimated at US$65 million of which 28%  was foreign
exchange. The project was to be funded over a seven year period by IDA (74% of project cost), the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB - 20%), UNDP (5%) and Korea (1%). The two latter were to
finance the technical assistance and the training component.
Implementation of FCD-IE
Land Acquisition
6.         Despite the special arrangements incorporated into the project design to minimize the risk
of delays in land acquisition, slow land acquisition had been a problem all along from project outset to
project closure. It resulted in a delay of project effectiveness' as well as in an extended project
construction phase (from three to eight years) causing the envisaged O&M component to be seriously
squeezed and the overall project to be extended from seven to eight years.
3 Net command or agricultural area 104,500 ha.
4 "The land required for construction during the first year of the project had to be acquired
by the Borrower" was a condition of effectiveness and could not be met on time.



26
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 159 I-BD)
Appe,idix 1: Aide Memoire
7.         Despite the many assurances given by GOB during project implementation that the
continuously reset land acquisition targets would be met, land acquisition remained a drag on project
execution. At the extended project closing date of June 30, 1994, about 97% of the SAR target area
had been acquired, while according to the SAR implementation schedule, all land acquisition was to be
completed by the end of 1987. However, the mission feels that the SAR implementation schedule
could be regarded as unrealistically tight and the conditions set forward by the Bank to ensure smooth
land acquisition as too meek, considering the fact that land acquisition is a difficult activity to undertake
anywhere. Nevertheless an overrun of about six years is quite excessive and hence an unsatisfactory
rating would not appear incorrect for the implementation of the land acquisition component In this
context it is recommended that the experience obtained under this project should be used to bring
about a possibly more appropriate land acquisition system.
Civil Works
8.         Much of the construction of civil works has been completed as envisaged in the SAR with
the particular exceptions of (i) the irrigation component in the Gumti sub-project which was to improve
and provide irrigation facilities on 14,350 ha, of which only 3,700 ha were improved;5 and (ii) the
drainage canals which were reduced from 821 km to 316 km due to detailed/revised designs and
incomplete works.
9.         Much of the civil works implemented were rated "good" or "fair" by the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Studies financed under the project, although, a significant portion was also
rated as "poor" and considered not functioning as designed. This includes 17 km of embankkments, six
irrigation inlets and eight km of road improvements. The mission had not been able to verify this
during its field visits, but understood that some of these works had been improved as recommended by
the same studies. Nevertheless the mission noticed that in the Naogaon sub-project the embankment
road brick lining was incomplete (4.6 kin) and about one km of embankment was missing which could
be harmiful for the town of Naogaon in case of flood. The latter is mainly due to the town's resistance
to the construction of the embankment within its perimeters. Apart from these two issues the works in
Naogaon have been carried out satisfactorily. In regard to the Madhumati-Nabaganga sub-project the
civil works there could be considered satisfactory provided the still not rectified defects (14 irrigation
inlet gates were not installed, two gates were misfitted and other items were defect) are being put in
place. Finally, the civil works in the Gumti sub-project area have been considered generally
satisfactory.
5 No irrigation facilities were provided on the remainder as the pump originally envisaged to
be included was considered not economically viable during detailed design and dropped from
the project.



27
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-3BD)
Appendix 1: Aide Memoire
10.       In this respect the mission is also concerned about flood hazards when the design flood of
"once in a 20 year period" will occur. In such a case the breaking of embankment would be at an
unpredictable location and with a tremendous force. Flood warning systems should be installed and
possibly spillways be designed to flood the polders in a more controlled manner.
Studies
11.        All 12 studies to be prepared under the project have been completed and either accepted
by or submitted to BWDB. On the basis of the Agricultural and Fisheries Studies a collaborative plan
of actions was to be put forward by BWDB, the Department of Agriculture and Extension (DAE), and
the Department of Fisheries (DOF). These plans have been submitted and include a construction and
engineering development program that proposes to rectify the infrastructural shortcomings of the
project plus those items which are rated as "fair" in para 8. In respect of the agricultural development
proposals made by the study, the ICR mission queries whether expensive additional plans are justified
to increase the agricultural production within the polders, since it noted that the polder farmers have
already started to exploit the enhanced agricultural potential brought about by the project.
Government should therefore carefully evaluate the actions proposed and verify the expected economic
impact of the agricultural development proposals suggested by the study.
12.        BWDB is now implementing the recommendations that have been made by the BWDB's
Institutional Capability Study which made specific suggestions to strengthen its institutional capacities
in planning, construction, operation and maintenance. So far, funding for these changes do not appear
to be a problem, although the additional activities for which BWDB will become responsible may
require additional funds.
13.        The Gumti-II feasibility study has been carried out and further action on this is awaited
depending on the collaborative action plan (para I 1) and BWDB's reforms outcome (para 12).
Technical Assistance and Training
14.        All activities under this component have been successfully completed, although with some
delay. UNDP has conducted an evaluation of this component (for which it was mainly responsible) the
outcome of which has been rated satisfactory. The technical assistance provided by Korea which was
mainly concerned with the design aspects has also been satisfactory.



28
Implementation Comnpition Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 1: Aide Memoire
Operation and Maintenance
15.        The operation of polder regulators is either done by farmers' representatives or by BWDB
staff on the instructions of farmers' committees. BWDB staff participates on the committee's meeting
and advises as necessary. Maintenance of the structures is supposed to be carried out by BWDB even
though this is hardly done. Similarly no routine maintenance work has been carried out of the
embankment and particularly not of the embankment roads. At the initial stage of the project, O&M
fell behind due to the continuous lag in land acquisition, which delayed construction and thus
maintenance. Presently there appears to be no O&M system to be installed even though an O&M
Manual was developed under the Flood Action Plan in 1993.  This manual requires BWDB's
involvement as well as beneficiary participation and is to be used as a guideline for the maintenance of
the polder embankments and related structures. So far, no O&M plan for any of the three sub-projects
has been submitted to the ICR mission. It was agreed that the O&M plan for each of the three sub-
projects would be prepared along the lines of the above mentioned and by BWDB approved O&M
Manual and be sent to the Bank together with the Government's contribution to the ICR.
16.       Once the O&M  plans would be completed sufficient funds would also need to be
allocated by the Government to ensure sustainability of the project. Otherwise the benefits to be
derived from the investments would be foregone in a relatively short period.
Government Contribution to the ICR
17.       The Government's contribution to the ICR is still in preparation and could not be
provided to the ICR mission, although all data required were made readily available to the mission.
The ICR mission explained that its draft report will be submitted to the Government for review and
that the Government's contribution to the ICR should then be completed and sent to the Bank together
with their comments on the draft ICR. It was agreed that the World Bank Operational Manual
guideline for ICR preparation be followed for the preparation of the Government's contribution to the
ICR.
Conclusions
18.        The overall assessment of project implementation can be rated satisfactory once the still
pending and urgently required completion and rectification of the project infrastructure have been
carried out. Nevertheless project beneficiaries have clearly expressed great satisfaction on the
enhanced agricultural potential that has been brought about by the project. It appears that many
farmers are now encouraged to grow at least two crops per year and use high yielding varieties
whenever they can.



29
Implementation CoMpletion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Codrol and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 1: Aide Memoire
19.        So far, the principal and most important dissonant on FCD-UL concerns the project's
possible adverse effect on flood land fisheries in the project area. An attempt to neutralize this is now
being made by a fish culture program in the polders' ponds. This may indeed countervail eventually the
possible reduction in flood land fish catch, but would not compensate the inland fishermen6 who
already belong to the socially lowest population stratum in Bangladesh. The introduction of fish
culture would neither remove the environmental concerns that have been expressed in respect of the
fish species disappearance, claimed to be possibly due to the water flow obstruction caused by the
embankments. This matter should be looked into in depth as soon as possible to avoid a continuous
debate on the subject and thereby delaying any further development action in these areas. If the
claimed allegation would be true, other "polder" concepts would need to be studied and introduced to
mitigate the adverse effects of the embankments on the flood land fisheries stocks.
20.        In brief, the project implementation performance and probably also its outcome can be
rated as satisfactory on a sustained basis, once the required rectifications are carried out and the O&M
system introduced and properly funded.
6 The ICR mission observed many fisherman during its visits despite the allegation made that
the project would have had an adverse effect on the flood land fishermen.



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
APPENDIX 2
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND NET PRESENT VALUE



r



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (FCD-III)
(CREDIT 1591-BD)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND
NET PRESENT VALUE
Appendix 2
Assumptions
1.     Project Life: Thirty years, with full development reached in project year 13 (FY98).
2.     Prices: Farmgate prices for traded goods are all expressed at international 1994 prices (World Bank
Conmnodity Outlook), while non-traded goods are based on financial prices. These, as well as other domestic
prices are translated into border prices using a standard conversion rate (SCR) of 0.9.
3.     Project Benefits: The project benefits observed (so far two years for Gumti and one year for the other
sub-projects - since the project embankments have been completed respectively in FY94 and FY95) are not
conclusive in quantitative terms, but would result from an expected reduction of crop losses, and changing risk
perception of farmers leading to higher value cropping pattern, yield increases, and an increase in cropping
intensity due to a diminished flood risk brought about by the project. No benefits are assumed before the
embankaments have been completed, which is the reason for the empty spaces in Tables 1, 2 and 3 for the
production in the with-and-without-project situation until the time that the embankments are completed (the with-
and-without-project situation is considered the same during that period).
4.     The annual losses in fish production (Tk 11.5 million in Gumti; Tk 53.7 million in Naogaon; and
Tk 19.8 million in Madhumati-Nabaganga),' due to the project, have also been taken into account. These
losses would be compensated over a five-year period after completion of the embankrnents by fish
production through fish culture, which is now being practised by an increasing number of farmers in the
polders.
5.     The estimated with-project benefits so far, have been significantly lower2 than the with-project
benefits estimated in the SAR, but judging from observations elsewhere in similar projects are expected to
increase at their full development level within three years with the same rate as estimated in the SAR, i.e.
for Gumti 25%; for Naogaon 36%; and for Madhumati-Nabaganga 18%. The without-project benefits
Source: Agriculture and Fisheries Development Studies prepared under the project. These were
mentioned but not taken into account in the SAR.
2 See Appendix 3 for estimates which are based on a survey conducted by a local consultant and the
agricultural studies prepared under the project.



31
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591.BD)
Appendix 2: Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
have been estimated on the basis of the yields (which are relatively higher than those estimated in the SAR)
and cropping patterns in the adjacent areas to the polders and have been assumed to remain stable.
6.     As in the SAR, the project benefits do not include an assessment of the potential impact of floods
with a recurrent period of over 20 years on the project area in the without-project situation, because the
statistical basis is too poor to estimate any potential damages.
7.     Project Cost: The project costs, including O&M until completion of embankments - and
excluding land acquisition, expressed in current Takas have been converted in constant 1994 Takas by
applying the Bangladesh annual consumer index of the International Financial Statistics (IMF monthly
bulletin); the foreign cost component was relatively small. The costs then were adjusted by the SCF in
border prices and form the basis for estimating the ERR. The O&M costs, which have been separately
calculated after completion of the embankments and assumed to be equal to the BWDB projected amounts
required, have also been adjusted by the SCF and taken into account in the estimation of the ERR.
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value (NPV)
8.     The ERRs and the NPVs (opportunity cost of capital = 12%) in Tk million (Tk M) of the three
sub-projects have been estimated on the above basis and are as follows:
Gumti 9           Naogaon i' Madhumati-Nabaganga
ERR - ICR                               14.1                 13.4                   11.6
:ERR - SAR                              22.0                 28.0                   16.0
NPV - ICR (-Ik M)                      144.5                 87.1                 -14.4
NPV - SAR (Tk M)                       286.0                468.0                   78.0
' See Tables 1, 4. 5 and 6.
w See Tables 2, 4. 7 and 8.
_SeeTables3,4,9andIO.
9.     There are two main reasons for the less than expected performance in economic terms of the
project. Firstly, the higher than expected investment cost (land acquisition and civil works), which
increased from Tk 1,128 to Tk 2,269 million (all expressed in 1994 Tk). Secondly, the more than doubling
of the investment period due-to the delay in land acquisition - for Gumti about four years and for the other
two sub-projects five years each - during which no benefits (delayed production improvement) could be
obtained, since the embankments were not yet completed.



32
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 2: Economic Rate of Retum and Net Present Value
10.    The Naogaon sub-project was most affected in economic terms. This should have been expected in view
of the fact that: (i) the SAR's sensitivity analyses for that sub-project showed that the ERR would decrease from
28% to 18% if the project cost would increase by 100%; (ii) the serious delay in the completion of the
embankments; and (iii) the loss in fish production (which was much larger than in the other two sub-projects and
was not taken into account in the SAR).



Sheetl
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project
(CR. 1784-BD)
Appendix 2: Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Table 1. Economic Benefits and Costs (Tk million)
Sub-Project GUMPTI
1985    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999 2000-14
With Project
Agricultural Production Benefits                                                                 1041.9  1128.7  1215.5  1302.3  1302.3  1302.3  1302.3  1302.3
On-Farm Cost                                                                                     366.7  397.3  427.9  458.5  458.5  458.5  458.5  458.5
Floodplain Capture Fisheries Losses  0.5    1.0    1.5    2.0    3.0    5.5    7.5    9.5   11.5    11.5   11.5   11.5   11.5   11.5    11.5   11.5
Project Culture Fisheries Gains             0.0                                                            0.5    2.5    5.5    7.5    9.5    11.5   11.5
Benefits   -0.5  -1.00    -1.5   -2.0   -3.0    -5.5   -7.5   -9.5  663.7   720.4  778.6  837.8  839.8  841.8  843.8  843.8
Without Project
Agricultural Production Benefits                                                                 875.6  875.6  875.6  875.6  875.6  875.6  875.6  875.6
On-Farm Cost                                                                                     338.2  338.2  338.2  338.2  338.2  338.2  338.2  338.2
Benerits    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0  537.4   537.4  537.4  537.4  537.4  537.4  537.4  537.4
Benefits with Project   -0.5    -1.0   -1.5   -2.0   -3.0    -5.5   -7.5   -9.5  126.3   183.0  241.2  300.4  302.4  304.4   306.4  306.4
Investment Costs                   25.7   86.4   149.7  130.7  150.4   176.8  262.8  106.4   21.1
O&M Costs                                                                                         17.3   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7
Total Project Costs   25.7   86.4   149.7  130.7  150.4   176.8  262.8  106.4   38.4    16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7
Net Project Benefits  -26.2  -87.4  -151.2  -132.7  -153.4  -182.3  -270.3  -115.9   87.9   166.3  224.5  283.7  285.7  287.7  289.7  289.7
ERR   13.8%
NPV, Tk million   126.8
Page 1



!neeti
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project
(CR. 1784-BD)
Appendix 2: Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Table 2. Economic Benefits and Costs (Tk milion)
Sub-Project NAOGAON
1985   1986   1987   1988   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999 2000-14
With Project
Agricukural Producion Benefis                                                                        978.6  1096.0  1213.4  1330.8  1330.8  1330.8  1330.6
On-Farm Cost                                                                                         416.5  466.5  516.5  566.5  566.5  566.5  566.5
Flodplain Captum Fishers Loses            7.5   15.0   22.0   29.0   36.0   43.0   50.0   53.7   53.7   53.7   53.7   53.7   53.7   53.7   53.7
Projeet Cultre Fsheales Gains                                                                                 10.7   20.5   32.2   43.0   53.7   53.7
Benes      0.0  -7.50   -15.0  *22.0  -29.0  -36.0  *43.0  -50.0  -53.7  508.4  586.5  663.7  742.8  753.6  764.3  764.3
Wlihout Pr*cet
Agculw  Production kneEfi                                                                            849.6  849.6  849.6  849.6  849.6  849.6  849.6
On-eFm Cast                                                                                          397.0  397.0  397.0  397.0  397.0  397.0  397.0
Benens     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  452.6  452.6  452.6  452.6  452.6  452.6  452.6
Benefits with Proet    0.0   -7.5  -15.0  -22.0  -29.0  -36.0  -43.0  -50.0  -53.7   55.8  133.9  211.1  290.2  301.0  311.7  311.7
Invesivws Costs                   6.5   60.1  122.7   93.9  147.1  163.8  165.9  141.8   71.4   29.7
OW  Cosis                                                                                             22.6   22.6   22.8   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6
Total ProjectCosts    6.5   60.1  122.7   93.9  147.1  163.8  165.9  141.8   71.4   52.3   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6
NetProjectBinefts    -6.5  -67.6  -137.7  -115.9  -176.1  -199.8  -208.9  -191.8  -125.1    3.5  111.3  188.5  267.6  278.4  289.1  289.1
ERR  11.5%
NPV. Tk mIlbon   -37.2
Page 1



Sheetl
Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Founh Flood Control and Drainage Project
(CR. 1784-BD)
Appendix 2: Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Table 3. Economic Benefits and Costs (Tk million)
Sub-Project MADHUMATI
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999 2000-14
With Project
Agricultural Production Benefits                                                                         923.0  978.4  1033.8  1089.2  1089.2  1089.2  1089.2
On-Farm Cost                                                                                             378.7  401.4  424.1   446.8  446.8  446.8  446.8
Floodplain Capture Fisheries Losses                 2.2    4.4    6.6    8.8    11.0   15.0   17.5   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8
Project Culture Fisheries Gains                                                                                    3.6    7.0   10.7   14.0   19.8   19.8
Benefits    0.0   0.00    -2.2   -4.4   -6.6   -8.8  -11.0  -15.0  -17.5  524.5  560.8  596.9  633.3  636.6  642.4  642.4
Without Project
Agricultural Production Benefits                                                                         793.4  793.4  793.4  793.4  793.4  793.4  793.4
On-Farm Cost                         -                                                                   301.5  301.5  301.5  301.5  301.5  301.5  301.5
Benefits    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  491.9  491.9  491.9  491.9  491.9  491.9  491.9
Benefits with Project    0.0    0.0   -2.2    4.4    -6.6    -8.8  -11.0  -15.0  -17.5   32.6   68.9  105.0  141.4  144.7  150.5  150.5
Investmnent Costs                   7.1   51.5   43.5   73.3   51.7   81.1    81.4   117.5  124.7    8.5
O&M Costs                                                                                                  8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7
Total Project Costs    7.1   51.5   43.5   73.3   51.7    81.1   81.4   117.5  124.7   17.2    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7
Net Project Benefits   -7.1   -51.5   45.7  -77.7   -58.3  -89.9  -92.4  -132.5  -142.2    15.4   60.2   96.3  132.7  136.0  141.8  141.8
ERR   10.7%
NPV, Tk million   -46.9
Page 1



36
BANGLADESH: Tid Fboed Ce md Drsiam ?tje
(Or.1591-11D)
Appnix 2: Eismaoc R3 f J3un dANf Pr  Vain
Table 4. Economic Prices (Taka) I/
Crop-year
Unit        93194
Outputs
Paddy                               ton              5,114
Wheat                               ton              8,699
Pulses                              ton              7.200
Oil Seed                            ton             14,501
Vegetables                          ton              3,600
Potatoes                            ton              3.600
Tomatoes                            ;on              3,500
Jute                                "on              8,837
Sugarcane                           ton              1.400
Spices                              ton             12.000
Inputs
Production costs
Production costs                 Taka        Value Basis
Fertilizers
Ure2                             kg/ha             4.i2
TSP                              kg/ha             10.07
MP                               kg/ha              9.13
Other
Hired-Animal traction              ad                36
Labor
Labour                               , d               35
1t For Financial prices see Appendix 3: Tables 3. 6 and 9.



37
BANGLADESH: Tbid Flood Caol and Dmmp Pject
(Cr.1591-BD)
App2iix2: Ecoic Rme of Rwn md Net Prs Vabhe
Table 5. Production Volume and Cost (Units)
(Sub-project GUMTI)
Crop-year
Without
Project     With Project   Increments
Unit
Main Production
Paddy                    ton          89.352.5     108,992.0      19,639.5
Wheat                    ton           6.876.0        8,400.0      1,524.0
Pulses                   ton           1,180.0         876.0        -304.0
Oil Seed                 ton           1,672.3       1,607.2         -65.1
Vegetables               ton          27,360.0      34.200.0       6,840.0
Potatoes                 ton          47,312.5      54,612.5       7,300.0
Jute                     ton            773.3          773.3             -
Spices                   ton           4,203.8       4.502.0         398.3
Operating
Production costs      'OOOTaka       338,231.0     366,684.0      28,453.0



38
-z ~          Co-kd RDp*
BANGLADESH: T1d Fbod Caol md D,aae Project
(Cr.1591-BD)
Appomdix 2: Eaaau c RAafRAum  d No Pfaun Value
Table 6. Economic Budget (Taka million)
(Sub-project GUiTMI)
Crop-year
Without    With
Project   Project  Increments
Main Production
Paddy                             456.9      557.4        100.4
Wheat                              59.8        73.1        13.3
Pulses                              8.5        6.3         -2.2
Oil Seed                           24.3       23.3         -0.9
Vegetables                         98.5       123.1        24.6
Potatces                          170.3      196.6         26.3
Jute                                6.8         5.8           -
Soices                             50.4       55.2          4.8
Sub-total Main Production           875.6    1,041.9        166.2
Production Cost
Production costs                  338.2      366.7         28.5
OUTFLOWS                          338.2      366.7         28.5
Cash Flow                           537.4      675.2        137.8



39
hzpkan"aZoa Competor Rqpoi
BANGLADESH: Tlhird Flood Contol and Dinage PrRjeCt
(Cr.1591-BD)
Appnix 2: Eoonomic Rae of Retu and Net Praent Value
Table 7. Production Volume and Cost (Units)
(Sub-project NAOGAON)
Crop-year
Without
Project     With Project   Increments
Unit
Main Production
Paddy                    ton          137,065.2      156,133.6      19,068.4
Wheat                    ton            3,856.0        6,678.0       2,822.0
Oil Seed                  ton            340.0          202.5        -137.5
Vegetables               ton            3,687.4        4800.0       1,112.6
Potatoes                 ton           10,450.0       12,600.0       2,150.0
Jute                     ton             861.9           508.2       -353.7
Sugarcane                ton          26,075.0        25,326.0       -749.0
Spices                   ton            1,265.0        1.380.0        115.0
Operating
Production costs      '0OOTaka       397,005.4       415,638.6      18,533.2



40
L      Qutia Coina. Repot
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Coatol and Draiag Projea
(Cr.1591-BD)
Apendix 2: Eoooowic R*e of Rnmm and Net PrcEa VaLue
Table S. Economic Budcet (Taka million)
(Sub-project NAOGAON)
Crop-year
Without   With
Project  Project  Increments
Main Production
Paddy                              701.0    798.5          97.5
Wheat                                33.5     58.1         24.5
Oil Seed                              4 9      2.9         -2.0
Vegetables                           13.3     17.3          4.0
Potatoes                            37.5      45.4          7.7
Jute                                  7.5      4.5         -3.1
Sugarcane                           a6.5      35.5         -1.0
Spices                               15.2     16.5          1.4
Sub-total Main Production             849.5    978.5        129.0
Production Cost
Production costs                   397.0    415.5          18.5
OUTFLOVIS                          397.0    415.5          18.6
Cash Flow                             452.5    563.0        110.4



41
Impiania  Cqapion R4p-t
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Cotrol and Draizp Prjed
(Or.1591-BD)
Appendix 2: EcoFc Rate of Return and Net Prcna Value
Table 9. Production Volume and Cost (Units)
(Sub-project MADHUMATI-NABAGANGA)
Crop-year
Without
Project     With Project   Increments
Unit
Main Production
Paddy                    ton          76.900.9       97,908.0      21,007.1
Wheat                    ton           5.872.5        7,505.5       1.633.0
Pulses                   ton           3,430.0        2.730.0        -700.0
Oil Seed                 ton           2,286.0        1.866.0        -420.0
Vegetables               ton          10,035.0       14,465.0       4,430.0
Potatoes                 ton          25,498.0       33.816.0       8,318.0
Jute                     ton           7,752.0        8,236.5         484.5
Sugarcane                ton           5,440.0        5,950.0         510.0
Spices                   ton           7,260.0        4.615.0      -2.645.0
Operating .
Production costs      'OOOTaka       301,543.8      378,728.3      77,184.5



42
kapia-Wi- Coat- R4pn
BANGLADESH: Third Food Caoluro and Druina Project
(Cr.1591-BD)
Appendix 2: Eonamc R  af Rtum and Nc Presew Value
Table 10. Economic Budget (Taka million)
(Sub-project MAD1lATII-,ABAGANGA)
Crop-year
Wittiout   With
Project  Project  Increments
Main Production
Paddy                             393.3    500.7        107.4
Wheat                               51.1     65.3         14.2
Puises                             24.7      19.7         -5.0
Oil Seed                            33.1     27.1        -6.1
Vegetables                          36.1     52.1         15.9
Potatoes                            91.8    121.7        29.9
Jute                                68.5     72.8          4.3
Sugarcane                            7.6      8.3          0.7
Spices                              87.1     55.4       -31.7
Sub-total Main Production            793.4    923.0        129.7
Production Cost
Production costs                   301.5    378.7        77.2
OUTFLOWS                          301.5    378.7         77.2
Cash Flow                           491.8    544.3          52.5






BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
APPENDIX 3
AGRICULTURE TABLES






43
Implementation Completion Report
3A,SGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 3: Agriculcure Tables
Table 1. Estimated Cropped Area.and Yield of Crops Grown in the
Gumti Sub-Project (1993-94)
Crops                                  Area (ha)                                       Yield (/h3a)
WOSAR      WOICX  I    WSA2 I        wIcaX  I   OSA X      W%oK   I   WSAf        WICX
Rice
B. Aus(LV)             2,000       1.625      1,200          627       1.35         1.50       1.90       1.60
T. Aus (LV)            7,900         435  -- 1,800           435        1.70        2.50       2.40       2.50
T. Aus (HYV)           4,000       3.i95      4.200        3.195       2.90         2.50       3.80       3.10
B. Aman (LV)           3.700       3,000      2.$00        3.173       1.90         1.70       2.20        2.0
T. Aman (LV)           9,000       j.873      4.500        4.721       2.22         2.00       2.45       2.20
T.Aman (HYV)           6.000       6.000     11.000        6.413       2.70         2.30       3.00       3.20
Aus-Aman (LV)          7,500       7,500 [ 5.700           4'732       2.10         2.00       2.30       2.10
Boro (HYV)             3.200       9.105     12.000       13.105       3.20         3.10       4.40       3.30
Vhetnt                   6,000       3.820      7.000       4,200        2.00         1.30      2.40       2.00
Jute                    2,300         407       2.S00         407        1.60         1.90 f    1.30        1.90
Potato                       0       3.735         0        4.3 69         0         12.50|        0       12.5
Pulses                       0       1.47z5        01        1.095|        0         0.80          0       O.80
Oilsee Is                    0       2.339          0        2.009         0          0.70         0       0.80
Spices                       0        335           0         885           0         4.75 [       0       5.20
Vegetables                   0      2.280          0        2,230          0         12.00         0       IS.0
Total Cropped           52.100      51,649     53,000      5l.649T
AreaI
Cultivable Land         29.500     26.547    2S,700        26.139
Cropping Intensity        1.77        1.95       1.30         1.93 |
Source:  Agriculture and Fisheries Development Studies of BWDB and adjusted by the ICR Mission atler
discussion wvith DAE and the tarmers.
Estimated from  1993-94 data of DAE.
Estimated from the average vield of the Daudkandi. NMluradnagar. Debidwar and Burichang Thanas of tEle Comilla
district.
Adjusted yield from Agriculture & Fisheries Studies of BWDB. 1994 and ICR Mlission discussion with ranrmrs
and DAE otTicials. .
Note:   WO   -   Without-Project Situation
W         With-Project Situation



Iiliuiptecntation Conmpletion Report
BANGLADESII:  Third ftood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591 -uD)
Appendix 3:  Agricutture  Tables
Table 2.    rai'm BOt,ciket - I Ila Model Farm
Sub-Pr'oject:  GUHTI
Crops I                      Aus    T.Aus    T.Aus 11 Aus-       E.Amnan  T.Aman T.Amati Oaro    Wneal   Pulses  0-  Jute    Potato Spces   Vegel-   Total
Variate  /a                  LV       LV      HYV    Ainlui        LV        LV      NtYV    IYV                        seeds                            attes
Peiceitago Vo icn            3.14       0.54   6.17       14.4u       5.-/9   11.35   11.59   17.50      7.38    2.a5    4.G1   0.79    7.31        1.71   4.40         103
WICI1                  1.21       0.01   G.19       9.16       6.15    9.1-1   1242  2537         0.13    2.12    3.0W   0.79    8.46        1.71   4.47         too
NIXI hla WOICOn             0.01       0.016  0.120      o.;e:3      0.113   0221   0.Z2G  0.313        0.144   0.OGG   0.030  0.015   0.143      0.033  0.0c6         1.95
WICFt          0.oo4      0.017  0.122       0.101      0.122   0.101   0.245  0.501       0.181   0.012   0.077  0.016   0.1G7       0.034  0.0r7         1.9D
Procin. Cosl. 1k/Li
LaUOot    WOICR               13.t        36    325        513         179     4tt2    559    BO0         191      31       DI     44      3u6        70    21D3       4117
WICRI                   51         36    33)         329)       ID2     393      607   3183        217      28       69     44      451        71    288     . 4278
LluIlock  WOICn                32          9     66         12)        41       OG      134    1a9        69      11       30      a      82        14      52         953
W ICR                    13         9      67         83         44      Ui7     124    277         77        8      26       9      98        15     52         905
Seed    WOCIcn                 61         18    41         29/        124       66      81    123         117      33      54       3    3508        33      86       2703
WICA                    24          1/    49         190        134      54       B8   13         2tl      25       46       4     D1139      34     87        2900
LUera    WOICRA                 0          6    103          0          0 o0           363    370         112       0       65      5      154         7     02        1171
WICll                    0           8    103          0          0      87      177    130        125        0.     55       5     181         7     84         957
TSP     WO Icn                  0          0     63          0          0       53      90    247          75       0       58      4      1G0         9     55         813
W ICR                    0          0      64          0          0      43       98    361         84        0      49       4     187         9     56         9SS
tP      WO ICA                  0          0      9          0          0       15      32    103          20       0       Sa      1      60          4     i8         283
W ICA                    0          0      37          0          0      13       34    158         22        0      13       1      70         4     38         351
Pesticide W  ICR                0                15          0          0        0      28      60          7       0        4      2      38         0      21         174
W ICR                    0          0      15          0          0.    0         31     88          a        0       4       2      42         0     22         211
llrlatlton WOICR                0          0    4131         0          0        0     901   1372         2D8       0        0      0      215        14    258        3002
W ICfl                   0          0    409           0          0       0      9e1   2005        321        0       0       0     334        25    2G2        4418
Misc Ic WOICn1                 12          4     5s         49          38a     44      304    173         50       4       36      4      144        8      45         731
W ICf3                   5          4      60         32         19      36      133    231         56        3      14       4     168         9     46         797
Total   Wo ICA                23G         70   1367        91313      352      873    207G   3450        3933      OG      324     70    21U73       15.    903       34627
wicn                    92         71   1394         G33        379     712    2253   4619        3120       65     277      71    3369       174    914       35042
Prodci:ogi WO ICR              92         41    337        565         392     443     633   1053         250      44       63     29    1712        15   1031        6733
(Ko) W ICII                 3B3         42    379        300        243      397     705   1905        321       34     G6       30    20t39      176   1308         8109
Gross VdIuc WOICn             643        267  2359        3955       1335    3100    4.330   744.3       2072     GG7    1038    233    7129       1930   4122        40G92
(ttK) WICrI                260        291   2G52        2/; 1      1702  2753       5-19G  13336      2571      503     9D1    237    8357       2113   Sz34       49105
Net IICOL,s t 1k  j
wo Icn                 407        217   t192        2913       9DI3    2z27    2354   3902        IOG9    U51       Gat    163    4255       1741   3222       2G065
w IcR                   176       220   1459        21)ta      31323    2039    3243   U717       1451      4311    707    1G5    4 09       1939   4319       13243
tecl uicoriiejFariii I 3onitn  (Avtrace stie 0.45 na)
WO IC                  1e3         9D3   536       1335         447    1002    1059   1797         481      261     30a      73   1315        703   1450       11729
wICn                    79.        99    G5G         913        535    931    1459   3013          653      397     31a      74    2245       873   1914       34959
Per CapIpta l(couiu tMfI famlilly (Avafaije size SLOUI)
wo Cn                   31          36     90        22Z         75     I13      377    300         D0      44       5l      12     320       131    242        1961
W ICI1                  13         17    110         153       130      156      244    65         1393      33      53      12     375       146    325        2502
la   WO cn = EsllinaledOnacual Wil3iou3-roItml Siluatlol rnid: W Icn   ESLiil3ilcd ticluial WIlI-Plro1eL5 Silutdiorl.
/I)  t.athu. sLu. lur3A . Itser    ,IIIIiZSaS pcsIlACks itwl ultiI1 I I, SIcuS ( lUil .1).
III  0Ct,  litJ*i,Ot  NllAo  I ,iCou3



45
[mplementwion Compledon Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Dminagc Projecc
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 3: Agdcuimr4 Tables
Table 3. Summary of the Financial Price
(Sub-project: GUMTI - Phase I)
I:, ,,   i, I'rirr   1:'
Va riah Wes                    Unit                 SAR. lf9Nl-%f5    ICR. I9'J4-95
Outfnut:
Ricc                           Kg                                                    l.;tl
Paddy                          Kg.                             '1                    7.011
Ricc Scrnw                     Kg                                                       .l.i
Wheatc                         Kg4-(1                                                .S 1(
%Vhcat SLraW                  KL                                                     ,t.l)
Pu Ii;s                        K                                                     1 5.n
Oil Sced                       '9g.                                                  I 6. I 1
V:eee ,ble                    iKg.                                                   4.1i11
'VaLerMcioo                    Ki.51(
OiUiVU                         Kg.                                                    .011
Garlic                         .<g                             .                       ij.0t
PvtitCut                        Kg.                                                  4.110
utrilvg: l                     Kg.                                                  .4,
Tomrato                        ,9g.                                                  J l)oi
J uLc                          K                                                      Kg-
Inouc
Labotur                        D y                             211 (0i               Simo0
Builuck                        Pair/day                        .o (11               411.1111
Irr ic:16olil                  11:14sca:.1,,11                                     -10.X500]{.00
Frrtili7er
U rca                          Kg                              4.3( 6.
TSP                            Kg.                             4.13                 Kt.MIII
M1P                            Kg.                             2.24                 711U
Cowd:iIg                       Kg.                             1).15               IJ.511
PC.YtjCjdC.l                    Kg.                            27nlu (1(1            (1.R
Set:de:
Au. (LYV)                      Kg.                             4.11                  1(1.110
AUS (HY V)                     Kg.                             5 1(1                  1.' un
Ainan(LYV)                     Kg.                             4.D0 il. I IO
Ainaum(HYV)                    Kg.                               4-u1
Burk(HYV)                        .g.                           5 4t1                 [!.(It3
B. AinaLi                      K                                1g.                  IIIA 1 I
PuiLsces                       Kg.                                                   20.00
Oikeud.s                       K g.                                                  'X1
Chdilli                        Kg.                                                  .i25.11
Garlic                         Kg.                                                  4M .001
PeCtualml                      Kg.                                                   1131
Pt)(aW                ~~~~~~~~K 11.111
WTLfnav                        .Y1lo  g.                       *'O 1 0(Zs-](
TkuMriam                      K,--.                                                I11(11.11CO
Wheat                          Kg.                                                   10.t
/a     AvcraL:c Ai:iu:ul Pric,



46
lmplemenmwion Compiction Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Conrol and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD)
Appendix 3: Agriculture Tables
Table 4. Estimated Cropped Area and Yield of Crops Grown in the
Naogaon Polder 1 Sub-Project (1993-94)
Crops                            Area (ha)                                Yield (ttha)
WOSAR    WO'CR     WSAR |    WICR:   WSAR W1 ICR             WSAR    WICR
Rice:                                               ,2         .011               12          .
B. Aus (LV)        9,700     4,824    10,500      3,024      1.00        1.1      1.20      i.3
T. Aus (HYV)         400     4,686       800      3,186      2.90        1.8     3.80       3.0
B.Aman (L)         2.150       276    Il:550        276      1.20        1.4      1.40      1.5
T.Aman (L)        18,000     6,890   11,500       5.890      1.30        1.8      1.50      2.0
T.Aman (H)         1.100     7,836    7,500      10.836      3.20        3.0     3.50       3.4
Boro              17,000    22.902   18.000      23.402      3.20        3.8     4.40       4.0
Wheat               1.700     2,410    2,500       3,710     2.00         1.6     2.20       1.8
Jute            |   1,650       663     1,650        363      1.30        1.3      1.40      1.4
Potato                  0       950         0 J     ,0j                  11.0        0      12.0
Oilseeds                0       425         0       225         0         0.5        0 |    0.9
Spices                  0       230         0        230        0         5.5        0       6.0
Vegetables              0       358         0       400         0        10.3        0 |   12.0
Sugarcane               0       745         0        603        0        35.0        0 |   42.0
Total Cropped      5 i,700    53,195   54,000     53.195
Area
Cultivable Land    36,900    31,091   36,300      30.550
Cropping             1.40      1.71      1.49       1.74
Intensity _ _
Source: Agriculture and Fisheries Development Studies of BWDB and adjusted by the ICR Mission
after discussion with DAE and the farmers.
Estimated from 1993-94 of DAE.
Estimated from the average yield of >Naogaon Sadar, M,lohadebpur, Manda & Raninagar rhanas.
Adjusted yield from Agriculture & Fisheries Studies of BWDB, 1994 and ICR Mission discussion with
farmers and DAE officials.
Note:  WO  =  Without-Project Situation
W    =  With-Project Situation



I iqIctiitc t itorn Coipl o(t i on Repovt
BAIIGLAOESI1f   Ihird  I lood Contitl u iivJ Drainajae l'roject
(Cr.1591-BID)
AppeLliA  :1  Age-iculttuw   labLcs
Table 5.   Farm 0udqlet * I Ila Hodel Farm
Sub-Project: NAOGAON POLDER I
CQopsJ                     D.Aus  T.Ais  D.Amail  T.Amagn  T.AtIvin  Dtro    Wlital    Oll-  .bla    Potalo Spices   Veagel- sua -   Towl
ValilabI   /n               LV    IIW        LV       LV      IIW     IIW                seedis                           5bl0  coane
Iciceo,it.g  wo lcn          9.07   e.01       0.52    12.95   14.73   43.05       4.53    0.0o   1.25    1.79      0.43   0.87   1.40        100
W ICR                 5.C0   5.99       0.52    11.07   20.37   43.99       6.97    0.42   0.60    1.97       0.43   0.77    1.15       100
Area Ila WOCf               0.155  0.151      0.009   0.222   0.252   0.737       0.07a   0.014  0.021   0.031    0.007  0.012  0.024        1.711
w Ieft               0.099  0.tO4      0.00o   0. tu:I  0.355   0.76C      0.121   0.007  0.012   0.034      o.ooa  o.0013  0.020     1.741
Pliodut. CosL I'kc/b
LAboL*   WO ICII             321   309           12     492     e3s   2160          119      10    59       93        17    37       93      4450
W icn                  205    269         12    42tl    899    2252          InC        a     33     104        17    42      78      453I
Ljuilock  wo ICn               2      83         3      lo     127      407        37        4      12      II        4      7      14       904
W IcR                   52     sa          3      93      17Ji    423         50        2      7      20         4      a     12        910
Scud    WO ICII               132     54         a       119    127     203         124       3      5     319         7      12    120      1202
WICII                   04     38          0      7?      179    294         194        4      3     359         a     13    99        1359
Ica    woilen                 33    113          0       47     219     791          70       8      II     30         2      1     25       1302
W Icn                   21     78          0      40      309     827        109        3      a      34         2     13     21       1403
*SP     WO ICri               19    90           0        0     131    56G          47        4      a       Ia        2      a      to       929
W ICII                  12    03           0       0      114     o13         73        2      3      21         2      7      13       993
Ml'    WO Icn                  5      42         0        0      82     232          10        1     4      20          1     2       6       397
W ICII                   3     29          0        0      07     241         20        1      2      29         1      2      5        426
Pesitcicie vU Icn              0      19         0        0      32      129          4       1      3        a        0      3       0        197
witn                     0     13          0       0       44     134          a       a       I       9        0       3      4        215
IHlhnllon WOICIl               0    52a          0        0     802   2578          1S5       0      0      48         0     23      24      4236
W ICII                   0    365          0       0    1241    2GoI         243        0      0      52         0     28     20       4020
Mic Ic WOICII                  31    69           1      39      117    378         30        2      5      29         2      5      10       724
W Icn                   20     48          t      34      104     393         47        1      3      33         2      a     13        765
Totul . WO ICII              C23  1308          23      772    23J5    7557        601       37    104     587        34    1o0    314      14480
WICIt                  397    980         23     612    3207    7059         042       23     so     660        35    120   203       15298
Procsltlorl woIcn            171   414         12    309       756   2799          124      1I    28      330        d1    119   839        6048
#<(() W ICA                129   313          14    424    120G    3064          219        7     17     4 12       45    144    700       0782
GlossValuoWOICII            1024   2487         75    2393    4537   16795         992      175   222    1344        488   474   1000       32013
(Ik) W ICII                772   1077         at    2545    7230   15305        1749      loo    133   1650        542    578    947      31599
Nttklcouuc, lIdAia /d
wo ICn                 401    109        52    1021   2201    923a          391       3a    18la    758       454    389    092      17532
W ICII                 375    917         5a    1073    3949   10520         807       03     75     990       507    450   065      21301
Nol kccou,w/Fauni lIoIdng (Averna sle 0.88 In)
Wo Ieln                353    087         45    1427    1937    0129         344      122    104     007       400    324    609      15428
wicn                   330    807         51    104a    3475    9203         710       73     66     871       448    401    603      18745
Ilur CuplU tiu:cosu bulljtA nillty (Avrueo slkc 5.3d)
Wo IlCI                 68    180          a     205      380    1511         84       23     19    124         74     so    113       2800
wicn                    61    150          9     300      646    1722        132       14    12      102        S3     75    112       3484
At  WO ICfl a EsIkIsI ed idadwWIdmuA  l-rclact Shudlu  aoload W lCfl - Eaki,n loucila aLU Will - Pico)uc SlIwlou t0
Ab   LabUour. buSodcK seeds, 1eUtlUt1er. ieshickJes suxh olluIi prIces (See Table SI.
IC  IncIIHLks cost of lam IIplemnenM . litareUtl of aops toCll ec.
id   C,oss Value vwUs Total Coml



48
Implemen=ion Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Conmrol and Drainage Projecct
(Cr.1591-BD)
AppendLi 3: Agriculcure Tables
Table 6. Summary of the Financial Price
(Sub-project: NAOGAON Poider 1)
Ii ziafl1cial I'vicc /.I
Variables                   Unit                       SAR. 1984-85   ICR. 1993-94
Outout:
Paddy                       Kg.                                 4.i()               7.(0
W\Vhet                      Kv.                                 11 t(0U
Pulscs                      K=                                                      15.(1
Oil Seed                    K                                                       16.00()
VLgetahIe                   Kg.
WaccrMcILuI I                                                   -                   S.l)
Ociiil                      Ki. .                               - L.(1.
Garlic                      Kg.                                 -                  'U.0
Pocaco                      KE.                                 -                   4(U)
B.ric! ,;l  .              .9x.                                 -                   4.0(1(
Toinarn                     .9g                                 -                   4.(1()
Jule                       ;9K                             4.SOt                     3. M(
Sugarcanc                   K.                                  *.                     .(M
Inut:
Lahour                      Day                           5(.                      S(1.0U(
Bulklck                     Pair/d:y                      M(1.(1                   4(((
Irricatiol                 h:l/sc:c..nii                 25(1(1(1 3200(1(1
Fertilizer
UJr_a           .Ks2 6.00(,(.t
TSP                         Kg.                            4 1;                     S. (M
NIP                         Ke.                           i.24                      7.(0
Cowdunig                    Kg.                   .        0. iS                     .(1
P-sticidcs                 Kg.                           27i (1(1                 25(l.(X)7
Seed
Aus (LYV)                   Ke.                                 '(.00               I1(10
Aus (HYV)                   KL2.                                5.4(0               12.UU
Aniaii(LYV)                K9.                                  4M(1                I10. 0
.kiiiall(HYV)               K,g.                                5.4(1               I '.(1M
Boru(HYV)                   K'-.                                51                  1'2.0(1
B. Amilant                  KA                                  4.1(11              1(,((
Pulscs                      K u                                 -                  20.0(1
Oilsc:ds                    K2.                                 -                   25.(1(
Chiilli                     Kg..I)J((
Oicii:i                    K19.                                                    25(0.(0(
Garlic                      K:..                                                   4(1.(l(1
YV2cahl-                    K2.                                 -                  ;()().(H()
Po(ato                      K                                                       II .00
Wa[cr Mcloii                Kg.                                 - -(1(((
Tonato                      KL.                                 -                  I()(i(.()
Wheat                       Ku                                                      l((()
Suurcaitc  cut-ings        set                                  -                   (1.5()
/a       Avcra!c Annlual Pricr



49
Implementaion Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drinage Project
(Cr. 591-BD)
Appendix 3: Agriculture Tables
Table 7. Estimated Cropped Area and Yield of Crops Grown in the
Madhumati-Nabaganga  Sub-Project (1993-94)
Crops                                  Area (ha)                                        Yield (ttha)
WOSAR_J  WOICK I           A         W,s x                 WOICR2       WVsAR x    VIcA
Rice:
B. Aus (LV)              g,500      9.872      11.600       3.872        1.00          1.3       1.20        1.5
T. Aus (HYV)                 0        155          0         1.555          0          3.0         0         3.5
B. Aman (LV)            10,j00      6.513      3,000        5,513.       1.20          1.5       1.45        1.6
T. Aman (LV)              900        1.559      3.900        1.5S9       1.30          1.7       1.60        1.8
T. Aman (HYV)                0      6.320       3.600       8,320           0          3.0       3.70        3.5
Aus-Aman (LV)           12,000       5,235     4,600        5.235        1.60          2.0       1.30        2.1
Boro (HYV)                   0      6.215          0        7.215           0          ;.,         0         3.3
Wheat                    3.000       3.915      3.500        4.415        1.10          1.5       1.30        1.7
Jute                      3.500      4.345      3.500        4.345        1.20          1.6       1.35        1.7
Potato                       0       2.;13          0        2,313          0          11.0         0       12.0
Pulses                   i,500       4.900 |   9.000         3.900       0.40           0.7      0.50        0.7
Oilseeds                 7.000       3.3 10     3.000        3.110       0.40           0.6      0.50        0.6
Spices                       0       1.210          0          710          0           6.0         0        6.5
Vegetables                   0       1.115          0        1.31S          0           9.0         0       11.0
Sugarcane                    0         170          0          170          0          32.0         0       35.0
Total Cropped           53a900      583152     55,700       59,552
Area
Cultivable Land         38.000      35,10S     37.200       34,379
Cropping                   1.42        1.66       1.50         1.73
Intensity
Source: Agriculture and Fisheries Development Studies of BWD8 and adjusted by the ICR Pission after
discussion wvith DAE and the farmers.
Estimated from 1993-94 data of DAE.
Estimated from the average yield of the Mlagora. Nlohammadpur & Lohagara Thanas.
Adjusted yield from Agriculture & Fisheries Studies of BWDB, 1994 and 1CR Mlission discussion %vith (armers
and DAE officials.
Note:   WVO   =   WiEhout-Project Situation
W     -   Wi[h-Project Situation



Ileietictit fit" on Coosl llet Ion Rceport
IIAIIGLADESII:   thirdl flood Control anrd Drainiage Project
(Cr. 1591 110)
Appedlcix 3:  Agricutture tables
Table 0.    Farm Budget - I Ila Hodel Farlm
Sub-I'toject:  HAKiWIUIATI *NI3AoAWlGA
Cropis /                    (SAU.l  tAus nI. Ais -     (I.Amia    T.Alian  T.Aman   Uoro    W"ltat   Pulses   011-  .ila        Paloto Sptces   Vagot- sugar-   Total
Vaniible  la                 LV    IIW      A'iun         LV       LV      IIW      IIW                         seeds                             elbles aclla
Plwculm gu WO ICII           10.90   0.27       9.00       11.20    2.z8    10.07    10.9        8.73    8.43     a.55   8.33    3.09        2.00    1.02   0.20        too
W (CIA                14.00   2.01        0.79       O.2u     2.62    13.97    12.12      7.4 1    6.55     5.22   8.14    4.73       1.19   2.31   0.30         tOO
Nea, nia  WO Icn            0.20 I  0.004      0. 49      0. D10   0.044    0. tao   o. It7     0. 112   0.140   0.109  0.130   0.0oa    0.034  0.032  0.005          1.85a
w ICII                0.250  0.045       o. 152     0.1G0   0.0-15   0.242   0.210       0.128   0.113   0.090  0.141   O.0O2        0.021  0.035  0.005       1.732
I',ollol. Cost 'I                                                                                                                     3St
t aboLt   WO ICII             589      11        2012       217       oil    529      520         107       90     124    393       193       72    205       19      3458
WIcn                    523    113        20a         241      too 0     12     617        193       78      103    402      240        43    120      19      3791
aOllocId   WO ICl             304       8        1ol        200       53      22/     212         120      112      87    149       92        4D      44      a       1822
WIcil                   279     57         104        113      54      305      252        139       91      72    152       115       29      54       a       1942
Suod        WO ICII           201       2        157        204       13       Gs5       4        145      04       05      31     728        34      32     24       1921
wICII                   258      l8       1G0         178       14      87       70         107      60       54     32      002        21     38      25      2095
Uca    WO :Cn                  25       4         27           0       13     1314     190         74        0      52      92      so         7      23      5        701
wIeCL                    23     41         27           0       14     247      233         85        0      43      93       74         4     20       5       917
ISP     WC) ICrl                0       2          0          0        7      130      ISO         49       0       i3      8s      63        1o      25      2        544
wICiI                     0      iti        a           0        7      114     2815        57        0       38     G8       79         a      18      2        049
hill    Wo ICi                  0    0.9           0           0       0       G3      12          10        0       15     29      1I    .   3        4      0        212
W ICI                     a o   2.5          a          0        0      85       73          la       0       13     30       23         2      5       0        258
lesitcitte  woien   o  I   o     o        o      2J       tl          a        o       ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ ~                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~5 17  17  o  a  I  iob  t-n
Plesticide v ,crt               0        I         0           0       0       23       32          8        0       5       7       1                C81               l)U
W Cit                     0      8           0          0        0      30       37          a        0        5      la      20         0      20      I        132               
dIiipil2ioi WOICII               0     15          0           0       0      830      120        223        0       0       0       29        0      84      5       1056
WICI                      0    158           0          0        0 o      D47   735        257        0        a      0      t23         0     77       5      2201
Msc /c WOIeln                  12       2         33         30       20       97      90          42       25      21      41       07        9      to      3        552
wICn                     57     22         34          31       10     131      Ito         40       12       17     42       03         8      19      3        331
Tot)!   Wo Idc               t242      43        e1s        710      195    1947    1959          042     307      412    a 8o    1335       las    311      05      11038
WICII                  1140    442        073         121      199    2021     2323        909      250      344    t35    1058       tII    374       68      12022
ProlWdlol) WOIC)l             3C0      13        290        278       75      540     G20         107       90      05    221       720      207    280    255        4115
0<0)  WfCIl                 30t    15a         :120       2 57      02     847      797        210       79       54    240      924       134    421    173        5151
Gloss Valtu WO lCfI          2193      70       1709        2O70     453    3240    3711         1330    1405    1042   17G0    2905        2481   1143    200       25470
(1k)  w iCil               2323  . 950        2919   .   15t9      490    5002    47s5         2747    1191      G0   1917    3934       lOll    1383    208      30240
Net ltcafllc. 1/tkl /Il
WOICItI                 052     34       1130         951     258    1293    1758          497    i8SO       020    949    1570      2297    It33    121       14432
w ICII                 2203    500        1245        92t     291    2415    2462          777      042      525   1081    2277       1500   1309    141       17824
Nel kicoeio/Vaimi. I luldiiig (Avrul U skI  0.o09 lu)
WO Icn                  847     32       loo2         840     230    1151      565        442    1031    SO    844    1397         2044    741    208        12244
WICII                  1053    452        110        a 17t    259    2194    2191         G92      830      467    902    2026       2335   1105    W28       ISGDS
l1ei Ca2,iti hikcoiu  tLiiii kittily (Avem I12 sko 5.02)
wo                      25I 0S 5  a        179        15 l      41     205      278         79      103      100    150      249       304    132      10       2285
wicn                    107     00         19?        14s      4G      390      390         123     149       83    171      301       230    207      22  *   2701
Al   WO ICII - EstinolaodatdiaWlitloul-flic(t clSiluatlulnaLIdWICn f   EsIltutledoccil Wili-l'rolacl SlUallon
lb   Labowt Uudocl. scecuS leriiters. puslicldes ald output Lricc. (See Table 0j.
IC  Includats cost ol lartin lnplenerits. liuerest ol aopis loan cic.
Id   GrossValue muinus Total Cost



51
InMplemenmtion Complenon Report
BANGLADESH: Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 159 I-BD)
Appendix 3: Agriculae Tables
Table 9. Summary of the Financial Price
(Sub-project: MADIUMATI-NABANGA)
Financial 1>ricc     a
Variablcs                  Unit                       SAR, 1984-85   ICR, 1993-94
Out:
Paddy                      Kg.                                 4.31)               6.0()
Wheat                      I;g.                                4.011)              SM.)
Pulses                     Kg.                                 -                   15.04)
Oil Seed                   Ka.  -                                                  16.00
Vegetable                  K.g                                                     4.0)
Water-Melon                Kg.                                 -                   5.00
OnlionI Kg.                                                    .                   X .111)
Garlic                     Kg                                                     20.00
Potato                     Kg.                                 -                   4.4)
Bringal                    Kug.                                                    4.00
Tomato                     Kg.                                 -                   4.0(1
Jute                        Kg.                            4.80 X.0IH
Sugarcane                  kg                                                       1.20
Input
Labour                     Da;y                           12.0                    511.)1
Bullock                    Ptir/:lay                     301).10                  4(.1).
Irrigation                 haI.L/:e;csi                        -                 35011.01)
Fcrtilizer
Urea                       Kv.                            4                        6.1f(i
TSP                        Kig.                            4.13                    &00
L IP                       Kg.                            3.24                     7.001)
Cowdung                    Kg.                            0l30 1-.3)
Pesticides                 Kg.                         M701M(1                    250) .1)1
Sced:
Aus (LYV)                  Kg.                                 4.t)1)              1I.01
Aus (HYV)                  Kug.                                5.41                12.1)l
Aniani(LYV)                Kg.                                 4.1))               lt)UU
Aninan(HYV)               K1.                                   ;.40)              12.10
Boro(HYV)                  Kg.                                 5.4t)               1I2.0H
B. Aman                    Kg.                                 4.01)               111.11(
Pulses                     Kg.                                2-U.0)
Oilseeds                   Kg.                                                    25.0
Chilli                     K.g                                                   lI) 0)()
Onion                      Kg.                                 -                 2511.1111
Garlic                     K4g..1
Veoct;lible                K;                                                    3()(1()
Potato                     I;g.                                                    I 1 1.UO
Wate -I lo                 K. C1011                                               M  M
Toni.lto                   I; (1))1)0)M
Wheat                      Kvg.                                                    I It) (H)
Sugarcane cuttinus          Ne *t5)
/a       Averagc Anntal P',ice






/          t  V   \    de-                                                                                      BANGLADESH
,IN D I A                         THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND
j(\',<f-0  '--                                                                                    DRAINAGE  PROJECT
g T 0h) >XCI/) ( t tZomor - x \-'<v\99 1 {_t                                            ~(D   GUMTI PHASE I
25            X1                                                                                                                                                                        2 6 u\ a ( I; &v @ NAOGAON POLDERI
D     W               X W               i                                                                                           MADHUMATI -NABAGANGA
'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
.)   &   .  A   9   t\    '<    aX       ..N      f      i009A 
J  S/ W       ,     N1
RAJSHAH                                         A
'N>DIA                                     <'    KIILLNA~                                                          Mi,,
This map has been prepared bY  :5 T I                                                      1' I  I                                                          11 
tot the convenmence ol the       L.                                   '\                     >J                                                                 r 
readers and is exclusively o, the 
internal use ol The World Bank     <                                                               *                            
_,,.  andlthe tnternaltiona FinanceI                                    '' ;             .                                                1        r    *    ! J                      y2
Corporation The denominations       J,' 
used and the boundaries shown     t                                                                                
0n this map do not rrrPly. on the  ., 
part ol The World Bank arid the    ( 
nk.ernrelionaal Finance Corporation.5
srnV judg7ment on the legal status 
o/ any territory or arny                                                                 _ _R oads 
endorsemnent or accePtance ol                                                            -'-.--. Railways 
ouch boundaries                                                                                 District Boundaries
-*-International Boundaries                       CaBrl                   J 
ID IA  lr  BURMA)
BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                        I .
na                                     5     0    20    30   00    Sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
In                                                                                    _                                                                                        B D   I A  KALJ
Th  map h                 t..                                                                                  d t                               _                      a.T  N
fr           Br    f  Btnhe c,e,,eceof\tt_
rin     raf,on    deom,ln
in     M    a   o  to                                                                                                nronth 
an0  mdgmeat on the legal_stabs
ivl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentoa Boundaries,,, 









-------



