Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C   ,S1/-6Ž
Repot No. P4027-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECT'RS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 50.1 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGL*DESH
FOR A
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 18, 1985
Ths document s a restricded disibuteion and may be ued by recipients only in the performance of
their offichd duties. Its contens may not otherwise be diosed without World Bank athoizrion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On February 25, 1985 the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 26.47 buying and Tk 26.53 selling per US dollar.
ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS                                      a
Division (4)    -  The Largest unit below the national Government.
Zilla (64)       -  The largest units within a Division (formerly District).
Upazilla (460)  -  The basic local government unit (formerly Thana).
Union (6,500)   -  A grouping of villages with a local Council.
GLOSSARY
Aman         -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December.
Aus          -  Rice planted during February or March and harvested during
June or July.
Beel         -  Saucer-shaped area subject to flooding by rain or river
water.
Boro         -  Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested in
April to May.
Khal         -  Natural channel.
ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC         -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB         -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB         -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
FCD          -  Flood Control and Drainage
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
IPC          -  Imports Program Credit
LCB          -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOI          -  Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
O&M          -  Operation and Maintenance
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANXLADES!
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower        :  The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount          :  SDR 50.1 (US$48.0 N equivalent)
Terms               Standard
Project
Descrivtion   :  The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to protect
against crop losses, loss of life and property damage
due to floods; (b) to improve the physical environment
to allow farmers to adopt improved agricultural
practices; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB). The project would consist of
three sub-projects (Gunti Phase I, Naogaon Polder I and
Nadhumati-Nabaganga), covering an area of 104,500 ha
under flood control and drainage (FCD) and 14,350 ha
under irrigation. About 115,000 farm families or about
670,000 people would benefit. The project would
include: (i) the construction and rehabilitation of
embankments, vater control structures, drainage channels
and irrigation facilities and the upgrading of roads;
(ii) support to BIDE to improve the planning, design, and
monitoring of FCD projects, and to improve land
acquisition and operation and maintenance
procedures; and (iii) the preparation of programs for
the further development of agriculture and fisheries
within the project area.
Risks               One possible risk facing the project is implementation
delays in processing of land acquisition and preparation
of engineering designs. Special arrangements have been
incorporated into the project design to minimize this
risk. A further possible risk would be the potential
decline in production of natural fisheries within the
project area. The project would provide for appropriate
design of engineering works to minimize this impact, and
for the preparation of a follow-up development program
aimed at increasing crop, livestock and fisheries
production in the project area.
This document has a resUicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Pro;ect Estimated
Costs la                                        Local  Foreign
Cost   k change   Total
-USS Million Equivalent-
Land Acquisition                           7.2       -         7.2
Civil Works                               18.6      5.7       24.3
Equipment                                  1.1      1.3        2.4
Surveys & Investigations                   0.9      2.9        3.8
Studies, Benchmark Surveys & PC.           0.5      0.9        1.4
Engineering & Administration               3.6       -         3.6
Technical Assistance & Training            0.6      2.5        3.1
Operation & Maintenance                    2.0      0.3        2.3
Total Base Costs         34.5     13.6        48.1
Physical Contingencies                     1.8      0.7        2.5
Price Contingencies                       10.4      4.0       14.4
Total Costs              46.7     18.3        65.0 /a
/a  Includes about US$2.3 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
Local   Foreign
Cost   Exchante  Total
-USS Million Equivalent-
GOB                                       13.0        -       13.0
IDA                                      33.0       15.0      48.0
UNDP                                       0.6       2.7       3.3
Korea                                      0.1       0.6       0.7
46.7      18.3      65.0
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
----US$ Million-                    -
Annual          0.2    3.3   11.0   12.0  12.0    5.0    2.2    2.3
Cumulative      0.2   3.5   14.5  26.5  38.5  43.5   45.7  48.0
Rate of Return:     232



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
deveLopment credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 50.1 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$48.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Third Flood Control and Drainage Project. Parallel financing in
the form of a grant in each case would be provided by UNDP for about US$3.3
million equivalent and by the Korean Government for about US$0.7 million
equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Primary Education Project
(Report No. 3976-BD) dated March 7, 1985.



-2-
averaged about 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30Z of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods accounting for about 60Z
of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about 15% of GDP is financed by
workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more than 5Z of GDP in FY83
(before declining somewhat during the past two years) and by foreign assis-
tance equivalent to about 10Z of GDP per annum. The capacity to finance
imports can be sharply affected by external factors that are beyond the
control of the Government; the effect of such adverse factors on the economy
is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary revenues on import duties
and sales taxes, which together accounc for about 60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to inc--ases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investmerit in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Covernment took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP.  In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries freed from requiring investment sanctions. Imports were liberal-
ized by increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and
by eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the
balance of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in
the terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows,
as well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which



-3-
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 2.7% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2Z.
7.      Economic performance remained mixed in FY84, with GDP growing at only
3%, marginally above the previous year's performance. Agricultural produc-
tion was significantly affected by late floods in autumn 1983, followed by
drought and early floods in spring 1984, which continued with exceptional
severity through September 1984. The losses caused by the floods will also
adversely affect crop prospects for FY85, although a part of the loss may be
compensated for by higher yields in areas less affected. On the other hand,
there has been a sharp recovery in the non-agricultural sectors, beginning in
FY84 and continuing into FY85, partly stimulated by a significant expansion
in domestic credit, but also supported in respect of the manufacturing sector
by the earlier liberalization of import policies and the rationalization of
investment sanctioning procedures.
8.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85
Budgets, rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax
and pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues received a significant boost from the resurgence of imports
associated with the recovery of the non-industrial sectors. A substantial
budget deficit was avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development
expenditures compared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the
Annual Development Programme expenditures may occur during FY85. Such short-
falls arise partly from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but
are also attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as
a result of implementation constraints.
9.      Although domestic prices have remained relatively stable despite the
large increases in domestic liquidity, the rate of inflation is expected to
increase from about 12Z in FY84 to about 14-15% in FY85.  However, in January
1985, the Government took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity. The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth of domestic credit. If these credit policies
are maintained in FY85 and FY86, the acceleration of inflation can be limited
and the pressures on domestic prices gradually reduced.
10.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20%, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were



-4-
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, the current
account deficit as a whole declined to 7.4Z of GDP in FY84 from 10.4% in
FY83, while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of
US$558 million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85
there has been a deterioration in the baLance of payments. Part of the
growing pressure on the balance of payments arises from the additional
foodgrain imports necessitated by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate
additional food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had
to purchase about 1.25 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$250
million, from its own resources. Non-food imports are also projected to
increase significantly as a result of the strong recovery in the manufactur-
ing sector stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers'
remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid disburse-
ments are expected to increase over FY84 levels, a substantial drawdown of
reserves of over US$150 million is projected for FY85. The decline in reser-
ves would have been even more marked if a substantial portion (about US$190
million) of foodgrain imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-
term borrowing will, however, add to the difficulty of managing rhe balance
of payments over the next three years when there will also be substantial
obligations for repurchases from the IMF.
External Debt
11.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium- and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is
estimated at about 20%, rising to between 20-25% during FY86 and FY87. The
debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 15-17% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35Z in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     Although the Second Five Year Plan period (FY81-85) is drawing to a
close, the Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on
the priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives
are: (a) reducing population growth from the present rate of 2.6% per annum;
(b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (c) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (d) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the



Government in preparing the Medium-Term Focdgrain Production Plan that aims
at increasing foodgrain production. With appropriate producer incentive,
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the
private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural imple-
ments and inputs, foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of
the decade. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the Plan's
emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective
of achieving universal primary education has been adopted. Prospects for
achieving the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain
availability would be improved by success in reducing the population growth
rate; this will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far,
especially with regard to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor
implementation and have had only limited success. The Government has
recently taken steps to coordinate its birth control activities and to
strengthen training programs for fieid staff.
13.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since imported petroleum at present preempts
about three-quarters of merchandise export earnings. Since the required
investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy, they need to be
properly planned under a phased priority program. The Government is now
endeavoring, with Asian Development Bank (ADB)/United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) assistance, to formulate an appropriate energy sector
investment program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation
measures and the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels
will also be critical to the success of the energy development program.
14.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unempLoyment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially small-
scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one subsector
will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     As noted in paragraph 6, the Covernment's New Industrial Policy has
given a greater role to the private sector in industrial development,
increased the incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import
regime. However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the deveLopment
finance institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an
increasing problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives.
The Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.



-6-
16.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
While the development priorities are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the size of the future
public investment program wilL need to be set at a level consistent with a
realistic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources. As external assistance will continue to be severely constrained,
there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive domestic resource mobi-
lization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost recovery,
reduce subsidies, and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
17.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) Level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
18.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$2,977.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved eighty new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 23.6%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
11.9% for industry; 10.6% for energy; 7.2% for transportation and
telecommunications; 7.7% for education and technical assistance; 2.2% for
urban infrastructure; 1.6% for population control; and 35.2% for imports
program support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the
composition of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to
change markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and
three investments have been approved to date.
19.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 12 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development of flood control



-7-
infrastructure, extension services, research programs and rural cooperatives,
the provision of agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output
pricing policies that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase
production. IDA has also supported the Government's efforts to encouraga
greater private sector participation in the supply and distribution of
agricultural inputs.  IDA's lending program will place increasing emphasis on
agricultural diversification through increased production of fish, livestock,
and forestry products.
20.     An inadequate supply of energy is one of the major constraints to
economic growth in Bangladesh. IDA's lending for power and gas investments
is designed to expand the use of natural gas in substitution for imported
oil, promote conservation measures and more efficient energy use, and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects to
expand the country's rural electrification system and power generation and
transmission capabilities.
21.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
22.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16 to 18 million in 1985 to
between 35 to 40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also
help the Government to address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
23.     Tu achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (see paragraph 25), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
24.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland



-8-
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and are inadequately maintained. IDA's future
lending program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading
existing roads.
25.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides for a
significant proportion of annual lending to be in the form of program
credits. In addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local
counterpart financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful
vehicle for addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues.
Due to Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing
continue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of
local currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concession-
ary assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
26.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
27.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III - FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION
28.     Agriculture plays a dominant role in the economy of Bangladesh; it
accounts for more than half of the country's GDP, employs about three-fourths
of the labor force, and generates more than 80 percent of export earnings.
Agriculture is dominated by crop production, which contributes more than 70
percent of agricultural value-added. Successive Government development plans
have emphasized the need for increased agricultural production. Domestic



-9-
foodgrain production falls about 10 percent short of domestic consumption,
and imports of grains averaged 1.6 million tons per year during the period
1980-84. As noted in paragraph 12, the Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-85) gave
high priority to achieving self-sufficiency in foodgrain production. The
specific programs, projects, and policies for reaching this goal were set
forth in the Government's Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan, which
included the objectives of:  (i) increasing the irrigatfd acreage by 1.5
million ha; and (ii) providing drainage and flood control on about one mil-
lion ha.
29.     During the monsoon season, approximately two-thirds of the cultivable
land is flooded deeper than 0.3 m for three to five months. Areas along the
rivers suffer from overbank flooding, while elsewhere heavy rains and the
flat terrain cause extensive drainage congestion. In spite of the usual
abundance of rainfall in the monsoon season, droughts do occur, and in the
dry season soil moisture is normally insufficient to support cropping without
irrigation. Drainage and flood control have been recognized as essential
elements for stabilizing growing conditions and for the development of
irrigation. As complements to flood control, drainage, and irrigation, the
Covernment has adopted programs to improve the availability of fertilizer,
seeds, and credit and to develop extension and research services.
30.     .DA Lending Strategy.  IDA's lending strategy for flood control,
drainage, and irrigation has favored support for quick-yielding, low-capital
investment per hectare and replicable projects. This strategy was developed
jointly by IDA and the Government in the context of a series of studies. Of
special significance was the Land and Water Resources Survey (1972), which
led to a change in the water resources development strategy in favor of
low-cost irrigation and water control schemes. Other joint studies include
assessments of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) (1979) and the
Minor Irrigation Sector (1982). More recently, IDA is executing agency for
the UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project, which will draw up an inven-
tory of water resources and make recommendations for their future
development. These studies have contributed to important policy reforms in
agriculture, including the transfer from the public to the private sector of
procurement and distribution of minor irrigation equipment and other farm
inputs, rationalization of Government approaches to foodgrain procurement and
farm input pricing, and improved access to institutional credit.  In
addition, IDA and the Government are discussing ways to improve the organiza-
tion and funding of operation and maintenance (O&M), and the recovery of O&M
costs from beneficiaries.
31.     Ongoing IDA projects in the agricultural sector that involve irriga-
tion and water control include: Barisal Irrigation (Cr. 542-BD), Karnafuli
Irrigation (Cr. 605-BB. Muhuri Irrigation (Cr. 725-BD), Drainage and Flood
Control I and II (Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD), Deep Tubewells II (Cr.
1287-BD), Agriculture Credit (Cr. 1147-BD), Rural Development I and II
(Credits 631-BD and 1384-BD), Small Scale Drainage and Flood
Control (Cr. 955-BD), and BWDB Small Schemes tCr. 1467-BD).



-10-
32.     The First Flood Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 864-BD) completion
date is June 30, 1985 although a one year extension is expected primarily to
permit credit savings to be used to help rehabilitate works damaged by the
1984 floods. Progress under the Second Flood Control and Drainage Proiect
(Cr. 1184-BD) has been slow because of problems with land acquisition and
revisions of the project proforma.  These problems have been adequately
addressed; the project proforma has been revised to IDA's satisfaction and
substantial progress has been made in land acquisition. It is also proposed
to utilize anticipated savings under this credit to help in the rehabilita-
tion of works damaged by the 1984 floods. Although no Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for flood control and drainage (FCD)
projects in Bangladesh, past experience was brought to bear on the design of
the proposed project. Among the important lessons that have been learned
from these projects and that are reflected in the design of the proposed
project are the following: a development plan for intensification of crop,
livestock and fish production needs to be prepared following the completion
of flood protection works; new procedures need to be introduced to avoid
delays in the acquisition of land needed for project works; available
knowledge on the characteristics of rivers must be upgraded to allow for
proper planning of future development activities and for proper assessment of
the potential wider impact of flood control works on river basins; and the
design of water control structures should take into account water transport
requirements (including country boats) and fish migration patterns.
33.     The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) is the agency respon-
sible for the implementation of flood control and drainage schemes and large
and medium irrigation schemes. Although in earlier FCD projects, IDA has
supported a number of measures aimed at improving BWDB's institutional
capabilities, experience has shown that one of the main reasons for the
delays in project implementation remains BWDB's limited capability to plan
and monitor survey, design, and construction works. This situation could be
corrected by improving work procedures, staff training, and staff motivation,
and by strengthening project planning and implementation teams. The proposed
project would provide for the continued strengthening of BWDB, particularly
in the areas of design and construction monitoring and staff motivation (see
paragraphs 45-47). However, a more comprehensive review of BWDB's organiza-
tion and management is now warranted, particularly in view of the expanding
role it is likely to play following the completion of the ongoing National
Water Plan Project (see paragraph 30 above).
34.     With respect to the future, the Government's Third Five-Year Plan
(FY86-90), currently under preparation, will need to address major issues in
the water sector, including the availability of groundwater, the appropriate
technology to exploit groundwater resources, and the maximum potential for
irrigation development and its implications for future foodgrain production.



-1l-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The proposed project was prepared by BWDB with the assistance of
consultants. It was appraised by an IDA mission that visited Bangladesh in
July 1984. A staff appraisal report is being distributed separately. A
*         timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the
credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in
March/April, 1985. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delega-
tion led by Mr. Mohammed Ali, Secretary, Ministry of Irrigation, Water
Development and Flood Control.
Project Objectives
36.     The main objectives of the project are: (a) to protect against crop
losses, loss of life, and property damage due tc floods; (b) to improve the
physical environment so that farmers will be able to adopt improved agricul-
tural practices; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water Development Board
('WDB).
Proiect Description
37.     The project would consist of three subprojects (Gumti Phase I,
Naogaon Polder I, and Madhumati-Nabaganga), covering an area of 104,500 ha
under flood control and drainage (FCD) and 14,350 ha under irrigation. About
115,000 farm families or about 670,000 people would benefit.  The project
would include: (i) the construction and rehabilitation of embankments, water
control structures, drainage channels, and irrigation facilities and the
upgrading of roads; (ii) support to BWDB to improve the planning, design,
and monitoring of FCD projects, and to improve land acquisition and operation
and maintenance (O&M) procedures; and (iii) the preparation of programs for
the further development of agriculture and fisheries in the project area.
38.     The project design is based on the "simple polder" concept that
consists of an embankment constructed around an area with water control
structures to facilitate drainage and to prevent overbank flooding. This
technique is suitable in areas with shallow to moderate flooding and does not
require a high embankment or pump drainage.  The three sub-project areas
belong to this category. The following criteria were also used in selecting
the subprojects: (a) total irrigation investment per acre was not to exceed
_         US$250 and the drainage and flood control investment was not to exceed US$200
per acre (1980 prices); (b) each subproject was to cover at least 20,000
acres; and (c) the embankment was to protect against 20-year floods, and
against 100-year floods if significant loss of life would occur. IDA has
considered the international aspects of the project and is satisfied that the
project would not be harmful to the interests of other riparians.
39.     The Guiati-Phase I subproject, located in the Comilla District, would
cover a gross area of 37,300 ha, of which about 29,500 ha are cultivable.



-12-
From about May to October, the eastern section of the project area is flooded
to depths of up to 0.6 meter and the western end to depths of up to 2 meters.
These floods are due to a combination of overbank spilling of the Gumti
River, high water stages of the Meghna River, and local rainfall. The floods
adversely affect the late growth and harvest of transplanted aus and boro
crops and the early aman crop. Cultivation of jute and sugarcane in the Gumti
river-bed restricts water flow and increases flooding. A significant propor-
tion of these crops is cultivated on government-owned land leased to private
cultivators. The Government would control the cultivation of jute and sugar-
cane in the Gumti river-bed by discontinuing the leasing of public land to
private cultivators (Schedule 4, paragraph 8 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
40.     To control flooding, the subproject would provide for an improved
drainage system, embankments on both sides of the Gumti River, and water
control structures. Although the area on the right bank of the Gumti would
not be covered by the subproject, the embankment on the right side of the
river is included to protect the northern part of the Gumti-Titas river basin
from possible increased flooding due to the subproject. Provisions would
also be made for improving irrigation facilities on about 3,700 ha and for
extending irrigation to an additional 10,650 ha by means of a primary pump
station on the Heghna River and low lift pumps at the farm level.l/ In order
to promote efficient on-farm water use, this subproject would provide for the
establishment and operation of water management demonstration units. In
addition, the subproject would provide for the improvement of the existing
road network as required for access to construction sites and subsequent O0N
of water control structures. The project would also provide for a bydrologi-
cal and morphological study of the Gumti-Titas river basin that would collect
data to be used in the preparation of further irrigation and water control
development programs in the basin. Using the data from this study, the
Government would carry out a feasibility study for a Gumti Phase II project
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and complete the study by
June 30, 1987 (Schedule 4, paragraph 6 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
41.     The Naogaon Polder I subproject, located in the Naogaon District,
would cover a gross area of 46,100 ha, of which about 37,000 ha are
cultivable. About 70 percent of the project area is flooded to some extent
each year as a result of impeded drainage and river spills. Approximately
9,000 ha are inundated to depths of 0.6 to 0.9 meters and about 5,000 ha are
inundated to more than 3 meters. These floods cause severe damage to aus,
boro, and namn crops. As in the Gumti subproject, cultivation of
Government-leased land in the river-bed increases flooding. The Government
would therefore control the cultivation in the Atrai river-bed by discontinu-
1/ Low lift pumps would not be financed under the proposed project because
of the ample supply available in the country.



-13-
ing the leasing of public land (Schedule 4, paragraph 8 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
42.     The subproject would provide an improved drainage system, embankments
along the Atrai and Little Jamuna rivers, and water control structures. It
would also provide f's: improvements to the road system to allow access to
construction sites and for O&M. In addition, provision would be made for
aerial photography of the area and for a hydrological and morphological study
of the Atrai River to assess the impact of floods on adjacent areas under
post-project conditions and to provide data for the preparation of a plan for
the comprehensive development of the Atrai basin. Provision would be made
for flushing sluices to be designed for the dual purpose of drainage and
irrigation. In addition, khals would be reexcavated, new secondary canals
constructed, and water control structures installed so that water could be
stored for use during periods of drought and for limited irrigation of boro
and early aus crops.
43.     The Madhumati-Nabaganga subproject, located in the Magura and Narail
districts, would cover a gross area of 45,000 ha, of which about 38,000 are
cultivable. The agricultural land in most parts of this subproject area is
frequently submerged during the monsoon season owing to overbank spilling of
the Gorai-Madhumati River and heavy local rainfall. Flood depths in normal
years exceed 1 meter on about 10,000 ha of the subproject area. Flooding
affects both the aus and aman crops.
44.     The subproject would provide for the construction of embankments
along the Gorai-Madhumati and Nabaganga rivers, improvement and extension of
the drainage system, and installation of structures to regulate water flow.
It would also provide for upgrading the road network to the extent necessary
for implementation of subproject works and for their future O&M. In
addition, provision would be made for aerial photography of the area and for
the hydrological study of the Gorai River, which would be required for the
detailed engineering of subproject facilities and to assess the possibility
of using surface water for irrigation. An evaluation of the potential for
groundwater irrigation would also be included in the subproject.
45.     Support to BWDB.  In order to strengthen BWDB's capacity to manage
project implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established
(paragraph 51) with technical assistance in the form of consultants; provi-
sion for training and a study to develop guidelines for improving staff
motivation would also be included in the project. The PMU would employ nine
local professionals on a long-term basis (five-to-seven year contracts) to
assist BWDB in supervising and monitoring project implementation. The arran-
gements for recruiting PMU staff would allow BWDB to offer adequate compensa-
tion and thus compete with the private sector for the best staff available in
the country. It is recognized, however, that this is only a short-term
solution to the problem of motivating and retaining a cadre of skilled staff
in BWDB. Therefore, as an initial step toward identifying a longer-term
solution, the Government would carry out a study designed to identify ways of



-14-
improving BWDB's staff motivation in the fields of planning, design and
construction monitoring and not later than December 31, 1986, furnish the
findings and recommendations to IDA (Schedule 4, paragraph 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
46.     Two senior engineers (six man-years over a four-year period) would be
provided to PMU under a grant from the Korean Government.  As advisors to
PMU, they would help project management with the identification of training
requirements of individual staff members, organization of workshops and
seminars, and the preparation and execution of appropriate training programs,
and quality control. Under the project, eighteen BWDB staff would be trained
to eventually replace the PMU contract staff (paragraph 45). Training in the
form of on-the-job training, seminars and workshops would be designed to
improve skills in (i) design and construction monitoring; (ii) organization
of management (task identification, work loading and estimating, critical
path analysis, budgeting, proposal writing, interdisciplinary cooperation,
quality and cost control) and (iii) project implementation (the organization
of engineering surveys and procurement, selection of engineering designs,
evaluation of proposals from consultants and contractors). In addition, the
staff would be given the opportunity to participate in a program of on-the-
job training abroad. The two senior engineers would also assist PMU in
supervising project implementation, providing technical support as required,
and monitoring the quality of construction works. BWDB would be supported by
a local consulting firm (34 manyears of senior technical staff) supported by
three expatriate engineers (7.5 manyears over a five-year period) to assist
at the field level in engineering design and construction monitoring.
Consultants employed under the project would have qualifications, experience,
and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 4, paragraph 10 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.     Beyond the immediate need to strengthen BWDBEs capacity for project
preparation and implementation, there are broader and longer term institu-
tional questions which need to be addressed regarding the future organiza-
tional structure of BWDB, its management, internal administration, manpower
strength and patterns, technical operating procedures and its operational
relationships with other Government agencies. Accordingly, the Government
has agreed to carry out a review of the findings and recommendations of
previous institutional studies of BWDB, supplemented as necessary by addi-
tional information and analysis, and not later than June 30, 1986, furnish to
IDA, for comments, the results of the review and an implementation program
for strengthening the operation and management of BWDB. Thereafter, the
Government would carry out institutional improvements as agreed with IDA
(Schedule 4, paragraph 7 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.     Programs for agricultural and fisheries development in the three
subproject areas would be prepared. The project would provide for the
development of similar programs in the areas under the two previous
IDA-financed FCD projects (Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD). In the case of
fisheries, program preparation would include a study of the effect of flood



-15-
control measures on natural fisheries as a means of identifying ways to limit
any negative impact. For the agricultural programs, preparation would con-
sist of detailed land surveys, and a review of technological practices,
institutional needs, and infrastructure. An operational timetable would be
prepared to indicate how the changes needed in each area would be undertaken.
Both programs would be prepared in close cooperation with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests, the Department of Fisheries, local authorities and
project beneficiaries. Government would complete, and provide to IDA for
comment, agricultural and fisheries development programs by July 31, 1987 for
the areas covered by the First and Second FCD project, and by July 31, 1990,
for the area covered by the proposed project (Schedule 4, paragraph 5 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.     Delays in land acquisition have been a principal reason for delays in
the implementation of previous FCD projects (see paragraph 32). In order to
ensure the timely acquisition of land required for the construction of works
included in the project, BWDB would (i) submi: land acquisitions plans to the
concerned Deputy Commissioners (who head the district (zila) governments and
are responsible for land acquisition) at least nine months before the land is
needed for construction and (ii) furnish to the concerned Deputy
Commissioners funds, vehicles, survey equipment and staff necessary for the
verification and approval of land acquisition plans (Section 3.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Acquisition of the land required for
the first year's construction program would be a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.     Operation and Maintenance (OE)).  The credit would finance, on a
declining basis, the O0M costs of facilities completed during the five-year
construction program and during the two additional years of the project
period. Before each subproject is completed, O&M manuals acceptable to IDA
would be compiled for the specific facilities constructed in each subproject
and staff would be trained in their use. O& duties would be the respon-
sibility of BWDB-s field divisions. Preventive and annual maintenance would
be executed through small contracts under the field division's supervision.
The Government would ensure that adequate funds are allocated in BWDB's
annual budget for the operation and maintenance of project facilities
(Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Proiect Implementation
51.     The Government would promptly establish and maintain an adequately
staffed Project Management Unit (PMU) under the Chief Engineer Planning which
would be responsible for overall planning, coordination, and monitoring of
project implementation. The PMU would be headed by a Project Manager who
would be a senior official of BWDB. The appointment of the Project Manager,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would also appoint by December 31, 1985 a senior
design engineer and a planning engineer with qualifications satisfactory to



-16-
IDA (Schedule 4, paragraph 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
senior design engineer and planning engineer would be the first key staff
employed under contract by PMU (paragraph 45). The PMU would: (i) assist
BWDB field divisions with planning the implementation of those parts of
project works assigned to them and with the preparation and processing of
tender documents and contracts; (ii) oversee engineering surveys, foundation
investigations and detailed designs; (iii) monitor the progress of the con-
struction program; and (iv) monitor the quality of construction works
(Schedule 4, paragraph 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
order to facilitate project implementation, the PMU would organize quarterly
meetings of farmers' representatives, upazila and district (zila) officials,
and officials of concerned development agencies to exchange views on the
progress of the project, and it would inform IDA of the results of these
meetings. In addition, the PHU would prepare work programs for each sub-
project and would keep IDA informed of progress (Schedule 4, paragraphs 2 and
3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   A condition of credit effec-
tiveness would be that detailed designs and a work program satisfactory to
IDA be completed for the first year of the project (Section 6.01(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The project implementation period would
be seven years. Two years have been added to the five year construction
period to allow for the establishment of appropriate O&M procedures designed
specifically for each subproject (see paragraph 50), and the demonstration to
farmers of the proper use and potential benefits of project facilities.
Proiect Costs
52.     Total project costs are estimated at US$65.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$18.3 million, or 28 percent of total project costs.
Estimates are based on actual mid-1984 contract prices, adjusted to reflect
expected prices in mid-1985. Project costs include US$2.3 million in taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies (10 percent of thu base cost of civil
works) amount to US$2.5 million or about 5 percent of project base costs.
Price contingencies amounting to US$14.4 million (30 percent of project base
costs) are estimated on the basis of expected rates for local and interna-
tional inflation as projected by IDA. Local inflation rates are estimated at
13 percent for FY86 and 10 percent thereafter. International rates of infla-
tion are estimated at 6.3 percent for FY86, 7.8 percent for FY87 and 8 per-
cent thereafter.
Project Financing
53.     The proposed IDA credit of US$48.0 million would cover 77 percent of
total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The credit would finance
about 83 percent of foreign exchange costs (US$15.0 million) and about
74 percent of local costs (US$33.0 million) excluding taxes and duties. UNDP
would finance US$3.3 million equivalent and the Korean Government,
US$0.7 million for the technical assistance and training component. The
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Funding
Agreements of the co-financiers would be a condition of credit effectiveness



-17-
(Section 6.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). The Government would
finance the balance of project costs, US$13.0 million including duties and
taxes. The IDA Credit would provide about SDR 530,000 equivalent for
retroactive financing for costs incurred by BWDB after August 1, 1984 and
before credit signing for pre-construction activities consisting of inves-
tigation and surveys and preparation of land acquisition plans (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement 1/
54.     Civil Works (US$34.0 H).  Most of the civil works are relatively
small, labor-intensive, geographically scattered in areas with difficult
access, and spread over a five-year period and would not be suitable for
international bidding. The works would, therefore, be carried out under
contracts let through BWDB's standard local competitive bidding procedures
(LCB) that are acceptable to IDA. BWDB would ensure that bidding documents
for the construction of earthworks specify the requirements for controlled
compaction and would certify that compaction was properly performed before
final payment to the contractor (Schedule 4, paragraph 9 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). For works costing the equivalent of
US$150,000 or more, tender documents and bid evaluations would be sent to IDA
for review before the contracts are awarded. For all other works, bid
evaluation reports together with the contracts would be furnished to IDA
before reimbursement is sought. Force account work with respect to
earthworks would be permitted, but is expected to be limited to O&H
activities and would be restricted to amounts under US$5,000 equivalent for
each individual case. Force account work for fabrication and installation of
gates, including embedded parts, would be limited to US$50,000 for each
structure. The use of force account in civil vorks would be limited to an
aggregate amount of US$600,000. Surveys and Investigations (US$4.1 M) would
be undertaken under contract awarded under LCB procedures acceptable to IDA
or under force account (up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million). Aerial
photography contracts would be awarded according to ICB procedures acceptable
to IDA. Equipment and Vehicles (US$1.8 N) would include primary pumping
equipment for irrigation, construction equipment, transport vehicles,
furniture, office equipment and supplies, hydrological and morphological
equipment and spares amounting to about fifteen percent of equipment cost.
With the exception of small o'f-the-shelf items (see below), equipment and
vehicles would be procured in accordance with ICB procedures acceptable to
IDA. For procurement under ICB, a preference limited to 15 percent of the
*          cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$10,000 for each contract, which are needed
urgently, may be procured by prudent shopping after comparing price quota-
1/ Procurement amounts in parentheses include contingencies but exclude
duties and taxes.



-18-
tions from at least three independent suppliers. Such procurement would not
exceed a cumulative total of US$150,000. Studies (US$1.8 H) would include
hydrological and morphological studies, a groundwater study, bench mark
surveys and evaluations, water management, preparation of the project comple-
tion report, and preparation of the Guati Phase II project.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
(Us$ Million)
-    -Procurement Method La--
FA
Proiect Component                           ICB      LCB       Other     Total
Land Acquisition                                                 8.6       8.6
Civil Works                                          33.6        1.2      34.8
(32.4)     (0.6)    (33.0)
Equipment                                  1.7                   1.2       2.9
(1.7)                (0.1)     (1.8)
Surveys and Investigations                 2.9        0.5        1.0       4.4
(2.9)     (0.4)      (0.7)     (4.0)
Studies, Benchmark Surveys and PCR         0.8                   1.1       1.9
(0.8)                (1.0)     (1.8)
Engineering and Administration                                   4.7       4.7
(4.5)     (4.5)
Technical Assistance 6 Training Lb                               4.0       4.0
Operation and Maintenance                             2.0        1.7       3.7
2.0      (0.9)      (2.9)
Total                                  5.4       36.1      23.5       65.0
(5.4)    (34.8)    ( 7.8)    (48.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by IDA.
Lb UNDP and Korean assistance.
Disbursement
55.     The disbursement profile is based on estimates that are essentially
the same as the disbursement profile for irrigation projects in the South
Asia Region and reflect experience under similar ongoing projects in
Bangladesh. Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a) civil works, 95 percent; (b) equipment and vehicles, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory price, and 70 percent
of local expenditures on items procured locally; (c) studies, surveys, and
investigations, 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 95 percent of local
expenditures; (d) engineering and administration, 95 percent; and (e) O&M,



-19-
95 percent during the five-year construction period, 75 percent the sixth
year, and 60 percent the seventh year. Full documentation would be sent to
IDA in support of withdravals except for items (d) and (e) and the portions
of items (a) and (c) carried out under force account. For these items,
applications would be supported by certified statements of expenditures. The
actual documentation would be retained by BWDB and would be nade available to
IDA on request. In order to facilitate disbursement of the BEA-Credit, a
Special Project Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The initial deposit into the Special Account would be SDR
3.2 million equivalent. Withdrawals from and subsequent replenishments of
the Special Account would be made according to the provisions of Schedule 5
of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
Accounts and Audits
56.     The Government would maintain re^ords adequate to identify physical
progress and financial transactions relating to the project. Separate
accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA, would audit the project accounts each year. The
auditors' report would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year, and would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the purposes
for which they were provided (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
57.     Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of flood control and drainage
works is a complex issue. As in many countries, protection against flooding
in Bangladesh is considered to be the Government's responsibility, and the
accepted view is that beneficiaries should not be directly charged.
Moreover, benefits from flood control and drainage work vary from one plot to
another, depending upon the topography. Unless costs are recovered through
a land productivity-based system, it appears that an equitable system of
direct cost recovery will be very difficult to design. The Government's
current view, which is accepted by IDA, is that cost recovery on drainage and
flood control projects is not feasible at this time.
58.     The project would provide for irrigation development in the Gumti
Phase I subproject area. A revised Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance went into
effect in July 1983, and new water rules were issued in January 1984. The
specific water charges for major completed irrigation projects were published
in June 1984 that would cover about 45 percent of OFM costs. As agreed under
the IDA financed BWDB Small Schemes Project (Credit 1467-BD), the Government
will gradually increase water rates to cover 100 percent of O&M by July 1,
1990. Previously, actual collections, which were the responsibility of the
Deputy Commissioners, were insignificant. As part of the BWDB Small Schemes



-20-
project, the Government has agreed to improve its collection procedures.
Under the new rules, BWDB would be responsible for both the assessment and
collection of water charges. In an attempt to strengthen BWDB's capability
to assess 06& cost estimates for irrigation projects and to develop an
institutional capability to collect water charges, the project would provide
for improving BWDB's methodology for assessing 0&M requirements and
strengthening its field organization, manpower capability, and procedures for
collecting water charges in the Gumti subproject. The results of these
actions would be incorporated in the 0&M manuals to be prepared by PMU (see
paragraph 50).
Proiect Benefits
59.     About 115,00 farm families, the equivalent of 670,000 people, would
directly benefit from the project as a result of increased production and
increased employment opportunities. Mainly as a result of controlled
flooding, improved drainage on 104,500 ha, and irrigation on 14,350 ha, the
project would contribute an annual incremental production of about 100,000
tons of paddy and 13,000 tons of wheat and other crops. Increased production
would be a result of decreased harvest losses during the aus and boro
seasons, increased yield in areas where the production environment is
expected to become suitable for more widespread use of higher-yielding
varieties, or where supplementary irrigation is expected to be feasible for
aman, boro rice, and other dry season crops. Except for the Gumti area, the
with-project production levels would be achieved utilizing existing on-farm
irrigation facilities, field services, and presently available technological
practices.
60.     Direct employment would be permanently increased by about 4.2 million
man-days per year of on-farm labor, at the full development stage of the
project (year 10). Two million man-days per year would be required for
earthworks during project implementation and 0.2 million man-days per year
for OM after the completion of the project's construction phase. Farm
income would rise on the average by about 30-60 percent compared to the
situation without the project. Although the overall income distribution
would remain essentially unchanged, the project would substantially reduce
the level of absolute poverty in the subproject areas. Most important,
controlled flooding and improved drainage would permit further agricultural
development. The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is
estimated at 23 percent.
Project Risks
61.     One possible risk facing the project is implementation delays in
processing of land acquisition and preparation of engineering designs.
Special arrangements have been incorporated into the project design to mini-
mize this risk. Another possible risk includes potential adverse impact on
natural fisheries within the project area. The project would provide for
studies that would attempt to improve understanding of the link between flood



-21-
control and natural fisheries and determine the extent of the possible
adverse effect on natural fisheries, as well as devise ways to minimize this
impact. The project design would include measures to allow fish to migrate
into poldere through properly designed and operated water control structures.
Possible losses from natural fisheries would be compensated for through
fisheries development programs to be prepared under the project (see
paragraph 48).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Funding Agreements of other financiers (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); (b) appointment of the Project Manager
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); (c) completion
of detailed designs and the work program, satisfactory to IDA, to be carried
out during the first year of the Project (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); (d) acquisition of land required for construc-
tion during the first year of the Project (Section 6.01(d) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and (e) Government approval of the Project
Proforma 1/ (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
64.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 18, 1985
1/ An internal Government document, the approval of which is a prerequi-
site for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-22-                                                ANNEX I
T AD L*   -3hxt
IUaCLn.               - SLn   IDDICAT    DAT An
uam1ma                   -amma u    CR0m  (fIICIID ARRAC) 
non             ownT Cac  TrIA) a
i,ea. i,mi        EIWt        O is zua            munoLtz  e
UUYDU&    ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
Aun (      m 1  . m)                          -                                          .
TOTAL                               144.0     164.0        144.0
ACRIaILTURAL                         94.6      97.0         97.4
r a  cMimm (9)                         40.0       60.0        140.0           278.6                1091.2
(KILOCU OIF OIL EQJ!VA1)               ..      20.0         35.0           272.0                 567.3
POPULATWIO.MID-YAIm CTHOIUALIS)    53491.0   68117.0     92859.0
1AM  POPLAION (Zo? TOTAL)            5.2        7.6         11.5            21.7                 34.7
POPULATION PROJUCTIOS
POPULATION IN TA  2000 cNLL)                             156.7
STArIONART POPUATION I(LU)                              654.1
vovUzAnos sOmarUt                                          1.1
POPULATION UwISrTY
PER SQ. %H.                       371.5     473.0        629.6           166.6                 261.9
PER SQ. M0. AGL  LAID             565.3     702.5        931.0           365.5                1735.1
POPIIATIN As STRUCTURR CZ)
0-14 Ris                          64.3      46.3         42.8            35.3                  39.0
15-    S                           52.5      51.1         54.9            59.3.                57.6
65 AED ABOVE                        3.2       2.7          2.7             4.3                   3.3
POPIMTIOUl COMM RATE (I)
TOTAL                               1.9       2.4          2.6             1.9                   2.3
DRUA                                3.7       6.2          6.1                                   6.1 4.3
cRUDE um2  RATE (P  TWOS)           46.        46L0         46.8            27.7                  30.1
SUDE DUtI RATE (PM TRUC)             22.4      20.9         16.9            10.1                   9.5
GROS DDiOIUCflOU Ra                   3.6       3.4         3.1              1.8                   2.0
PAinT PUIiOmS
ACCflES. MEEAL (TWOS)                ..     373.0       1607.0
USERIS (S or IARRICD Vai)            ..        ..         19.0 fl           *                   52.7
rworn1 s moArm
INDEX OF Foo PO. PR CAPI
(1969-71-100)                       106.0     101.0        M1.0            112.8                123.0
PE cwinA Sumr  OF
CALORIUS (2 OP REquzRiEiiS)        87.0      35.0         84.0            97.7                 114.4
PrOMI (Cs (s  PU DAY)              44.0      43.0         42.0            56.3                  57.0
OF RI9CH ANIDAL      PULSE        9.0       9.0          7.0 /d         14.9                  14.1
WILD (ACES 1-4) ODI- RATE            24.9      23.0         19.4             9.8                   7.2
LIFE EaPECT. AT EXlUR (YEAS)         43.5      44.9       4*.2              60.0                  60.4
IliAr MOR?. RATE (M ?11aK)          159.0     150.3       133.3             33.6                 66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WAT  (POP)
TOTAL                                ,.      45.0         53.0            3Z.9                  37.0
URBAN                                .       13.0         15.0  .         70.9                  54.8
RURAL                                ..      47.0         55.0 7;         22. I                 26.4
ACCESS TO E1RE    DISPOSA
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ,.       6.0          5.0 Jf         18.1                  61.3
WWRIA                               ..         ..         4.O0 iM 72                            47.4
RURAL                                ..        .            ..             4.6                  33.3
POPULATior P  PrSICIA                 ..    8430.0       10940.0 A        3684.2                7749.4
POP. ER M  SIM  PEOS                  ..   76810.0       2D450.011        4793.1                2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                                ..    7020.0 th   4240.0 /i        1066.5                1044.2
I33                                  ..  ,  810.0 7iS   600.0 dj         298.0                 651.2
RURAL                                ..        ..      23470.0 d        53.4                  2594.6
ADMISSIOIlS PC  HOSPTAL MCD           .,         ..           ..              ..                  27.0
AVERACE SIZE OF IEMSEIIWLD
TOTAL                                                   .. .5..
URAN                                 _.       61         .61
RURAL                                .9. 5_9l              5.3
AUERA MO. OF PERSORI/ROON
TOTAL                                                              ..
URU                                                                ..
RURAL                                ..        ..
ACCeSS TO ELeCr. (I oW DhELLI=)
TOTAL                                ..        ..          3.5
UB.                                  ..
RURAL                                ..



-23-                                               ANN I
TA B L S                                          'PA2
nJUoZA                - SoCIL INDICA S  AT S
KOST             (MMT  -C    UTDAI 11L
,    ,,     IIICll%lk    W LI  NCM           KID        1NK
196ito    1,7011    IuAYIzA    ASIA G PACIFIC           "SA A PACIFC
ADJUtSTD ENROLIMT RATIOS
PRIARYZ  TOTAL                     47.0      52.0         62.0             97.4                 102.0
AIAL                    66.0       0.0         76.0            110.5                 105.9
SlLUZ                   26.0       34.0        47.0             83.7                  98.2
SECONDAY: TOTAL                     8.0      19.0         15.0            35.9                  46.0
KAIR                    14.t.      29.0        24.0             44.6                  48.7
IDEAUE                   1.0        8.0         6.0             26.8 B3.1
VOCATIONAL (I OF SCOND)               1.0       0.6         14.3             2.2                   17.5
PUPIL-TEC1ElR RATIO
PRIARY                               ..      45.0         44.0             38.5                  31.
4ODA                                 ..      26.0         21.0            19.7                  23.5
ADULT LITERACT RATE (1)              21.6      23.0 LJ      26.0  d         53.4                  72.1
PASSINCEX CARS/TYOUSAND POP            ..       0.4          0.4             0.9                  10.1
RADIO REIVRS/THOUSAND POP              ..        ..          8.0           112.1                 113.6
TV RECEIVERS/IYOUSAND POP              ..        ..          0.9             15.7                  50.1
NEWPAPER ("DAILY GNERAL
INTEREST) CIRCUATIIU9
PER TWMUSAID POPULATION              ..        ..          4.7             16.2                  53.9
CINDIA ANNAL ATTENDANCAPIA             ..        ..           .              3.6                    3.4
LAR  -
TOTAL LUCB  F0RCE (flOGS)         19252.0   23611.0      33221.0
FUWA5E (PERCENT)                   15.2      16.6         17.8            33.3                  33.5
ACRICULTURE (PERNT)                87.0      B6.0         74.0            69.6                   52.2
ILDUSTRT (PERCENT)                  3.0       3.0         11.0            15.8                  17.9
pARTICXpATO  RATE (PERCETr)
TOTAL                              36.0      34.7         35.8             42.6                  38.7
HALE                               58.7      55.9         57.1             54.7                  50.9
FEMALE                             11.4      11.9         13.1            29.8                   26.6
ECONGEIC DEPSNDENCY RTIO              1.3       1.4          1.3             1.0                    1.1
ICSDISUBDIO
PERcsNr OF PRIVATE lEONE
RECEIVED ST
HIGEESr 50 oN OUSENODS             18.I3 fk    .. 41 0222
NICEST 202 oF NOOUSCUL             44.5 7i                                                       6 7j  48.0
LOWEST 202 OF OUSEILDS              6.9 ?   ..77I           ..              ..                   6.4
LOWEST 402 OF USEULS               17.9 A    19.6 7         ..              ..                   15.5
POUT ACT COUPE
ESTMAED ABSOLJTE POVERTY INCOI
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        .,        139.0 /d         133.9                 188.6
RURAL                                ..        ..        111.o 7i         111.6                 152.0
ESTIMATED RELArXV   POPUVIT  EIGCS
LEVEL (OSS PER CAPIr)
*                  URBAJI                               ..        ..           ..              .1377.9
RURAL                                .,        ..                                               164.6
ESTIAE  POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
pOVERTY INCONE LEVEL Cl)
*                  URBP N                               ..        ..         86.0 /d         43.8                  23.4
URBAL                                ..        .,         16.0 7;         51.7                   37.7
NOTr AVAILA
NOT APPICABLE
NOT  E     S
a   be sgroup enrages for edeb tndceAtor are popAlatiaa-wightad arithrtic means. Coverag  of countries nag   the
indIcators depends on availabUlity of data and la not unIform.
/b   Unleas othervia  noted, "Data eat 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "ata for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for Nonet Rleent Intimte" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  19B3-84 date; Id 1977; A 1976; /f 1975; LI 1979; lh 1972; /J 1978; 71 1973; /k 1963; /l 1967.
JUNE. 1984



-24-                                                                     AMli  I
OM"     aalb. dat  ka.. di am Ira  ad ds   raellat japd  *bp -g  agtalallfria.     I-g   iadIf  n.P                          m fhlabla.  taaawaatant
d-If uft   .1  amml. ilim        * &- P.   at  ...it. aeje  a J., ad   art are -      i                                                      at Sb
sh"Iimasmu, Iaaaap  tar mob Igam  at  lpnIlrfl a             p a;.m    Mgl. la-   fleh atisa  aI NIddl. Mt'r i shawa taaaaaa at a9NVtawe       -
artr=gaa.  ma h. Mrat... ass. dag. it. gaaasg   gak"ssala  ags  agilglu sa    ia. .gO ila-M, aI awm  aSp da.a saelt-p .5l aria"-. Ba
rp b . dt FMe sham lu,lMata.  Want alab.       r   1men    a    hatial   dapab  -a. S. asai.allity aS da.1  Sdt5.i awguiss. nwsa ma ha
analadIarlala  aaaa  a ealugageI  malta.. SC.      Tanasra.a   "tal  -asrg  Ia  -Pgaapa  It. sMag Ifa -  ila-aa  a a gIn   -mes   a. -naI a
a    -Ia   aa                                             t..i.tsM  etawes ty anla. at prau"ala
M.fliL - ltit  atM  -1inlttl"01   a          W  apgailt W-, low.atl               niMg      ag"     satasa.    astman    aaltsa
to.. Wd ntaaad . naaM. l(aam.d".a .It   aIg   a.saaa    tsg.u
aaiuitsad bytam  trrartlaacts -hargi  rat ` OlIn g151  agal'a=.1             *i,baktlSlttl   agtr.  Qutaptg. era g.atssnpaqflpairad
IWA0. ast, as  ta1 dala.                                                                he as, Sain VW ufada;at. h.Iataltiata    psgtdia   wIshy11 maSt.)i
a,-gram  sagl.d. anal haaplst. kanagr  Iniab  Wattk aI
aw lWalt.I-g  a12tsatralsy  ta bllqan- at alt a..lai PR pg-spsIa.loIt.                   pI-ld. a Haltd ta110 at assati flaglltting.
ltM. sad IsIl dAt...                                                                     igiraaatastat     Iggag -At at absta  La - dtaahara.
T~ti  If VU   ;b. flagr at bb..
NW.                    mft)~~~~~h at A. aly Is ItS, llta, a  19411          as
js1.as   aigsMA atarr aaa  ap atar  aaatsblsay al data                                -d shair -sa salt. a bagada -  1Slow  Wa  - ar Wa he instead h
ma   tnastaa  low. Im, -1 ia31 dug.                                                   tha taMeMAd tar a4,sgIgsa  Pa.aaa
a         ~           WiSLW tP   M  paaI a- prIaaSas a;. t.a - 115                 .ra.h..ss -p..raWar. I .IN,ra           f    -wrgTn.p   " sa ul      -
laa   ap-.         agatM    aOMI  -t IaNta abs   re-at mesy  as  aratla            -dnalssdaP. R.aa.ri.ttsmatdan-aaa.sla
ra t.,rjul  pa Lmr=  ta  bIahris  rats aata a sta -                                                                                     I ntptd png
!a,L:a:s. IN.I             tais1f  -aptlaag   tatltsa  at. Pr.,            ~            tor      Ttiaiba             am       stg   aa aMpams
FMagesT.    pa-asar  rae ftasti as  ral ala. lag. at-I.-..l                          at lal. arts, Ma  rar  dagillga -aapattny.
aatsdaatle  Ia t.aritlly m-rdiN ta lam  tava  aS pare ratd,
Pkmatn M =r-m.  ta    alyI   Wt asalan  ma at at..  s.
antnstn   t ssaitya  tss l,          F sata   ejsta   apn
a  as-gat a. sa. es  ra. -ha MMNga      I Ist.r ha sit. aaatat  a- ah                 esa..     gaa ss-ta.- iaa  Mt aa-lag a tats pair  "a-n in  gmna
.m    rta Mta sara. Th. ataiM-p paptl.a alga an atlntd a at.                          ela  am  pwapb ar tate a. aba  gta arttlat adai opa.
baja .5 It. prajgatd sla-aawlatsga at atfpgstsra Ngt            ..F                           asgt-saa,ng   srn   nuadO   a atmsan
ur.       a.  at  t 5ggnatlatti lyMI yal. W Iai or-tiagans lMMet                 a-d.gta Iatasm  aS laaas -at  Mpnas atI-gSaN  patmasagamass
flgalstt.   - I.It. aadaay ta paglalta grnt 5a aaaatsa1                        peals.  -anrag  ItaaatnIF  M a. taa. sta    aRan--a in
tartaaaap pagautai  t.k.    MII    . ta..p  ,it                            lS     IR ISEM sLnv p. raaeem                        garu.w
asar,ta taawS I.                                                                        1-        pt. -                            teal ania   a.ata 
wiMjbj-iilow.r papasats.. par as....M                                                                     IVlasta. m   tarct.ral at  Wareaadaadl. baIsW
-gi's  Sm      . Lt  a5   -aa
papajaltta  toaw. twoC. a   tat data                                                  IgaNala  ama Inaaaprsa   aid                     aI .haav
pagepApaiat  La. i"a  It -M    d ttfl-si.                                         aadta      - Iaty  tsram    amalt-ss - All gyp..a  ran-n- tar asI.
ParItiMan in las-d,t-i. nd Siaas.                                                     t.tts-ad iM--ra ha 't.aaetg  ad Ia yaat  a.  qalarutaos  at a.4
bad.atir tr  taa  glsnaa) - aaat-i. bsna tar ta--d ai aId-                    na  a   Ia attas  dat tar rant. rats nr at ha -ana. ama ant
paaepataatlgl tn, iN, a  lea  ea.I.                                           -aM1rt- abllat  ltI-taa
ha   gVn tVIMara    a,a rbr                         aat   a  t                      .a atha nan  a.r-catralin at                      IJAn  -Mana
rgratstryran   -tlp ragY-p. mar-  .adua It IWO  e. I           aS-1                      -1s-              annlateaa  innr   dattd a a aatad1a1i
isat.                                                                                 pda-tisa    brats MAanIly Ia "-nSie  laarat ma'n. ithamedat
adI bI.a-arlduaadempga naan  tat1 "psatst P-                                .        ama  at7 gitada  are q-- la. -   tsr- taad ag a                   a
Meaa Fshaaarddaas  s raa  niiaanaam   -dteg   a m
Cnt  iata     aataeara LAdr,55  ma.) - Praaaaa asP              eadh                         adta.    t    V1                    =    :ZA
ald asaat-aasega            a  rgltsan  aa  aadM
smar.: .. ntapi   a - II. nardtrW              t.saga ttasanaaa"ttt.ala..ag -ia~
----MM` -QM 9.   Mm, qp                                  Maat..g  t  lta5.   italamlaes..aaaga
vs am nuns..                                                     saparabtag ~~~~~~~~~ION. IWO0 ad 110 data
a.-Laagsaa allM         ham ttn Fr.rab ~        i-t  aiiam    a                                           -M.  IP.t  ran t. amatla  t.rar. ftatt   -4
ins   a    -a atada  ar- bats.  -ata    n  prtaay aS.". la.1.                         raaata  -  Mrsa-Ws .5 I.t.  taa  ta..g  Ito. toga -a  mlu  bra
agarn -atag  at WN.) Stat an  dibta ad aratata aetat Ua*N.                      tabiry tin-t  - tab. tar  t. Salsa  aantastts. -nataaift-If  a
dat."  W                                                                               acteiI S-1ataiSae-aaag) -taa14 n41      a  mall - yaitlatp.llasa
areg. aqataa.    at         (Mlagt-la  Mclaj      gaa   a  ela-                          rmm    taaa   S    srns               aaaa    it         aaalai
day. Anita1tta aarrita  -aiaa ba--tsrpab.  tM         tarta t.a u-Is. sin, aINs dm.-  ltb- aa tad  n tWa 111gattatata  rWat
-arrt. MI -ma ta  ta   ft. asetia  a-t.sd  again tnd4  Maa.                            rritalsaas  ga -agrca at aft MPgplaata. a1 t-e  tn In1,  a
qagtitta   ma L. insrrsaat.. -a  ban  Ia daata9ttatar  tetrn,                          IFM =a         a tan  -alm-man
sa 7tleity   db-`taih art.tdartaa t nrrsaa   erlaa   s    lha                         lait pia                  tatag adI" f)
ga as -  daaaltn.Z- as paralatt   aS aI.ttg     tg p-s.   In  -rt
gahasht  IanIt 1101-4. Ism0 a   ttat dat.-ar  brSSimT
-9 cla   alli aS a---t ISaran   e   ' - P-sI. ga- aai.  nt R-SWe.lgetabI tnt. a  its                                                      ft-Lrn." by nsa).
ra   p   ` a   a  par day. a--aat agta  K. d-ttd a.aa.1-                        paan        - tda  M5 paaa.P-aa  i p-ra-c. -d paat 50 ga-nS  S
sain-aI..  afl. enaela  aglattlat  ha as p-arl tat fama-                               laaal.
at .nta   ao 50ai    C t"ti prata. Par"   -1 a 0 Sca     at nint a 
pai -pttas. at Wat Ie IIa   Wti    ha  tIa prata.  cam-.fat, -                        rar         r
a   gaipra1aga  - am-arad  in at -mi. RM-ina  my pm  ta at.                       atidh llrpad   stMatt,          cat   -Ml..
tlIrd t~td Ptd SiapIrI IK1-S. tlto a.d tan dat-                                     1-Macd soalakta yaar=       aa    ia             .t     -.t    smt
ft,r Carl. erts .aal fan easel -a  ra   - pralat  Motla a a                              ta-aa.Pa--ar Maa   aah  m                  aa~ a       t.). tutl
agrisedrnaiaad          paF.Ld  it ara   Me a,g 10-1, a   ad let                       -cetVtOlty IV    aata dlat Pt- --gtta  ..-i1-1 raai       -aan
dgla.                                                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-tl.dgta
b~ill tame I-A)tagl ate  Saertrarga   - nAtald-aI -tar wtimd Iasit                                itr   trt   acmtn    a  ne satla)    acts as  ara
aneap  -                  Va - a   h tli  MPata  am-r  in -lc Sar"iati              tbIi ratitra paat I. v= k   S     ! ha            --Whrra a   par swa
- wmt. dat br--d am itt. LaI;  It, eft aS%   talt data.                                par-n  Ia  at t. atty.ata. laaa I. beta-  is at. cIAra
la.-i alIt adja-an   in ktsata  mat  I tais  C. attn aim.
rag atme ar  tma   ti    lt -. alit.  l)as  tta  data.MM
aarag-adaaaId_art.. gst n atm                                                                                            -- iratartadb=ass,       tIle. aslJantI
artsmaY  a pelts  imarasa a        .a raa P-ts1.a me s3r  -. tO aMin
f-s a Kag a   a  albead - bata  gIALtt  i--wtla a-   .1 ts
-fa. at Mt. b-taatd. S   t tar. Wa gas a dlaprpa         ftaa pai at
tg-a~ ra taiar  Oa- 1aa trarar-a  -aa.1g  -rmcata.a   at
r ab    iaapia lt.WLL at.a         ruara         gaat.1f-.S w '  -, dhaaai
M--nia at airt r-P-an , ra-aicsa-   tarat  egaraaa ny l-.t
a..bW salal  ad da-p. .ai  tata  Salea          -na. a t i. cat
ad  ats-tar by arrba   ysna  an at rPt, proria  ad
aLalarisatataa



-25-                                                  wz
PepulAtieDm 9I.9 million (UJmIra 1963)
Off Per CspLtei 05116 (196)
(milli    US$         Avern  amal lZfrmae (2)                     BIrB  of GM  at Maret PriLeo  (Z)
In asunet  _pr_c_o)    _    _    _st__ DriesC is eun tica)
green doMethi product ^         10640            4.0      -0.6       5.3     3.3        100.9  100.0  100.9  100.0  1O.0  100.0
4Lricultur  &                  5.139             3.1     -1.3       3.3     2.8         59.9   56.9   62.5   33.4   46.7  46.9
Industry s                     14468            7.9      -3.2       6.4     2.7          7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1
larviea                        4.033            4.9       3.3       6.1     4.2         30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0
Cemnmptie                       10 438            4.4      -0.7       6.0     2.5         92.4   92.0   99.2   98.0  103.9  98.1
Cros. domutic inouvtunt          1,765            10.9    -10.9       2.0     0.1          6.9   11.3    8.1   16.7   13.8  16.6
bport. of good. 6 Mt.              899           L08    -11.7         3.6    10.6         10.0    L3    3.0    7.8    7.7   6.4
lupoxte of goed. 6 eft           2. 465           8.      -12.0      6.1    -0.4           9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.3  23.2
Crse. eatioenl "evisa              691           26.5    -17.7      22.1    20.0           0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.5
-amunt
(Million as$                  Comp.ition of Mercbhadiss Trade (Z)
in current prices)                       (LU Current Pries.)
3934                     MlU      KMl    EiR       VWZ    Ei    fEL
IIUKU.DI6E TUI,
Merchandie e*xport.                622                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary L                        263                        40.4    31.5   29.6    30.9    33.2    32.0
lamafoctur.s                     559                        59.6    66.5   70.4    69.1    66.6    65.0
NerceamdiLe lepert.              2.353                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                             398                        44.1    42.2   30.2    13.9    19.5    16.9
Petroleum                        355                         3.2    11.1   16.2    21.7    19.7    15.1
Machinery 4 equip_ent            608                        13.8    11.5   23.0    26.1    29.5    25.6
Otber                            992                        39.9    35.2   32.0    33.2    31.3    42.2
nEs    rM        Eil     fl77    fill    EM        Un       FT11    FTnR    FiS3
PRICE AND TC1lS OC TIME INDICES (1972173-l00)
GOP Deflstor                                   140.6   240.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   216.8   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.4
mE5cke. rate (TkUSO)                            7.9661   L.8759 14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228 15.4777   16.347  20.0400 23.7600
-ePort price inde                             104.5   119.0   103.4   IDOL9   126.5   160.9   196.9    175.7   147.7   154.5
ZupOrt price inded                            144.9   167.8   180.2   175.2   16L67    206.9   236.9    263.9   259.9   237.4
Term of trade index                            72.1    63.4    57.4    61.1    75.0    77.0    84.7          66.6    36.8    65.1
Aa 2 of CDr
(at current prices)
FY75   Fn77    FYnw        Fy32    FY83
PUBLI FINVEZ
Current revme                                     5.4      9.5      10.5      11.6    10.7
Current ezpenditure                               4.5      7.8       7.7       6.4      5.5
Curront surplus C.) or deficit C-)               *0.9    *1.7      * 2.8     * 3.2    12.2
Capital wepeniture                                3.1      9.5      13.3      12.4    11.5
Foreign finaning                                  2.4      6.0       8.2       8.0    11.4
ffM  IMICATORS                                    W6O70       nl70-75     n75-W9       Y-3
GNP growth rate (2)                              4.2         -0.6          6.5        4.0
CUP per capita growtb rate (1)                   1.5         -3.0          4.0        1.6
- not available
- not applicable
La At mrket price.
Lk Raw jute, tea. and fisberies.
Feb. 27. 1985



-26-
(ullem  6, Ia  ncut pri e.)
UAIUCE OW PA5m3
-                  _                      Ve~~~~~~~~~Atual                              3hti  tgja3j,
* nu                            nfl                                      -   ni l 2  =   1 n
Iat expert. of sBow                           -1,0s    -903    -470   -59    -944  -1,650  -1,922  -1,946  -1.623   -1,531   -2,100
hortuof egds                                    364     372  *03        490     G10     722      711    626     66M    9 22        900
Isagta of goeds                             -1, 43 -1,275    -675  -1,349  -1.556  -2, 372  -2,533 -2.572 -2,309  -2.353   -3,000 
not aerte of services                              21     - 7    -29      -32     -20       4       IS    -70    -112       -33      -90
Vharera' r_ittaace-                                35      29      60     113     143     210     379    424      628       552      435
Cerr_t  emat klulc1s0                                    jK     =n        M           -1 U35  -142  -1,512  -L107   -101   -1-755
Direct privets iu_etnt
NILT loans (s_t)                                  43S     4       253     338     420     SW       513 ;   56     476      53        573
Grats  gre nt-low flos                            38U    245      265     394     531     592    536      617     709       697      540
Other capital flo.e (net)                         274      67      17    -39      -16     144     307    255       164     -*         49
Change in rxerves C- - hure..e)                 -131       53    -31       25   -124      119      24    142   -242        -166      291
Internatioul trner,. (cad of perIod)             264      213     294     269     393     271     249     106      350      516      225
*eser,e. as nAotbe of 4peot. of nt year          2.5      2.9     2.6     2.1     2.0     1.3     1.2    0.6      1.8      2.1       1.0
nm5 n7   m7  n78  n7s  nae  ns  un2
Total &cooa diabur_ute                       519      363     268     435     477     630     562     543     549
CoceeiLmal                                4sa       533    24       401     456     600     541     4a    4*3
Bilateral                               343       390    14       262     213     273    287      232     213
IDA                                     112      128      96      66      153     152     170    13s      190
Otbhr multilateral                        3       13      14      51       91     176      84      76       U0
Ikm-co rcaioeal                            60       30      24       35      20      30      21      S1      67
3ilae.rial                               45        16       6       2       3      17       2       7      28
ISO                                       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Otber multilateral                        -         1      -       _        _       _       1      31      12
Wrir}ae                                  15        13      1s      32      17      13      19      42      26
-UT DIEUSUIP                                    49S       497     238     396     420    SO      513     508    476
qr_? O0rTlitAIc
Total euttaneding end disbursed           1.355    1.797   2.053    2.571  2.951   3.216   3.613   3.979   4.470
Official                                1.233    1.689   1.940    2.436  2.860    3.067   3.491   3.634   4.317
nfl                                      55       55      55        55     55      35      53      55      55
IDA                                     255       330    486       554    707     859   1,027   1.161   1,366
Othar                                   923    1.254   1,419    1.327  2.047   2.154   2,409  2.599  28696
Irivate                                    122      106    113       135    142     149    124      145     153
Undieb.red debt                           1.019       948  1.016    1.335  1,659   1,719   2.104   2.619   2.773
-BU? sayC
Total debt service                            31       as      39       69     95      94      91      67     123
Amortizetion                               21        66      30       37     57      so      so      40      74
Interet                                    10       22      28        32     38      43      42      47      49
IDID debt servie                              0         2       3        3      4       4       4       4       3
IDA debt ervice                               1         2      3        4       4       6       7       8       a
Avere  interest rate
Official                                  1.3       1.2    1.3       1.2    1.3     1.2     1.6    1.6      1.0
Private                                   2.3       8.9    7.2       6.2    6.1     6.9    10.8    6.6      6.6
Average maturity
Official                                 35.1    42.9    38.6       38.5   36.2    34.2    35.1   35.5    39.5
Private                                  15.3      11.3    11.0      9.5   14.8    19.2     7.7   11.7   12.9
Al  CGow Wos (Z)
IND DaI/totsl DOD                             4         3       3        2      2       2       2       1       1
I1UD disbrre_teltotal diabqrsauanta           0         0       0        0      0       0       0       0       0
UDm debt sericeItotal debt service            0         2      6         5      4       4       4       4       3
IDA Da/total DOD                             19       21       23       22     24      27      28      30      31
IDA diabursementsltotal disbursements        22       23       32       20     32      24      30      29      35
IDA debt erwieelttal debt erwice              3         3      5         5      5       6       7       9       6
7EM ST T                                              t Jue       19U    lUD/IDA LENDING (At Jose 1983)   SUD    PA
Maturity structure of debt                                             Outstanding & Disbureed            54.9 1.365.8
la-turitiae  due vithin 5 yars                        15.1           Uediabursad                          -  1I005.0
maturities due witbin 10 yers                         29.4           Outesanding. incl. Undiebersed     54.9 2,370.8
Interet sturcture of debt
Interet due witin I yer                                1.4
- not available
lebmra 21. 1985



*  -27-                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH La
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sevtember 30, 1984)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                        54.90 1,079.15         -
527       1975  Bangladesh Ashuganj Fertilizer                  -      62.00        1.07
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                  -      21.00        3.27
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.37        5.66
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                   -      16.00        5.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Huhuri Irrigation                   -      21.00        8.83
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00        0.60
787       1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                 -      25.00        9.56
825       1978 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II              -       7.00        2.29
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research               -       6.00        0.45
864       1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control             -      19.00       11.36
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00        2.74
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       13.23
921       1979  Bangladesh Population & Family Health II    -          32.00       17.12
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Pover
Distribution                    -       28.00       9.87
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Severage II -         22.00        2.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -       25.00      16.80
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        6.29
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                      -      37.00       20.31
1001       1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II           -      20.00       11.56
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00      17.85
1032       1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation         -      20.00       12.39
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00        6.25
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00       24.79
lD651c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00       19.20
1091k      1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -      85.00        9.43
1096/c     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -      25.00       11.83
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II            -      50.00       23.82
1124c      1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV             -      16.00        6.09
1140/c     1981  Bangladesh. Hand Tubewells                      -      18.00       10.11
1147/c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       17.50
1184/c     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -      27.00       21.92
1204/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer          -      15.00       12.79



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bansladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number    Year   Borrover               Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undiabursed
1205/      1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -        30.00      26.07
1215/c    1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II            -       27.00      19.99
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                   -       60.00      53.37
12541c     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power            -       92.00      79.44
12621c     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -      40.00       30.78
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -       68.00      51.55
1300/c    1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                 -      110.00       9.78
1301/c     1983 Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -        6.00       4.12
1318kc    1983 Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -        7.80       6.99
132Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III            -       35.00      32.27
1349/c     1983 Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                     -      12.00      10.37
1357lc    1983 Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -      28.50      26.07
1384kc    1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -      100.00      89.00
1396Lc     1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10       7.37
1399L  /d  1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -        20.00     18.15
1402k  e  1983 Bangladesh Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -            23.00     21.38
1440Lc /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance        -       25.00      23.78
1455/c If  1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -        24.50     24.50
1467/c Lz  1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board           -       41.50      41.50
14711c Ld  1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                 -      140.00      88.37
1477Lc gL  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -       23.00      23.00
FO22Lk L&  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -        22.00     22.00
149O0c /e  1984 Bangladesh  Technical Education                -        36.00     36.00



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A.  Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Banaladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0OLc   1984  Bangladesh  SAP - 725 BD                        -        10.00     10.00
1504-1Lclf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                          -         5.00      5.00
1504-2LcLf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                          -         7.00      7.00
1504-3Lcf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                           -         8.00      8.00
Total                                                       54.90  2,908.92  1,119.20
of which repaid                                            -         4.13      -
Total nov outstandin2                                       54.90  2.904.62
Amount sold                                                0.00      0.00
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                              54.90  2.904.62
Total undisbursed                                                  11119.20  1.119.20
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
;b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
Ic  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the UIS$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
/d  Became effective on June 19, 1984.
/e  Effective December 20, 1984.
|f  Effective October 25, 1984.
L&  Not yet effective.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1984) la
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in USS Million
Year            ObLiAor                Type of Business             Loan   Equitz    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Hills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    lighapeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                -       1.05      1.05
Total tross cozmitments                                              6.80      2.04     8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             5.60     0.63      6.23
Total now held bv ITC                                                1.20      1.41     2.61
Total undisbursed                                                    0.65       -       0.65
ia  The folloving IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                  Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.              and Tannery                  2.7        .5      3.2



-31-
ANNXE III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Suinlementary Proiect Data Sheets
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One year
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
Bangladesh Water Development Board
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA:
May, 1984
(d) Date of appraisal mission:
June 25, 1984 - July 24, 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 2, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-32-
ANNEX II I
Page 2
Section III:    Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Funding Agreements of other
financiers (paragraph 53);
(b) appointment of the Project Nanager of the Project
Nanagement Unit (paragraph 51);
(c) completion of detailed designs and the york program,
satisfactory to the Association, to be carried out
during the first year of the Project (paragraph Cl);
(d) acquisition of land required for construction during
the first year of the Project (paragraph 49); and
(e) Government approval of the Project Profor-a
(paragraph 63).
Other Conditions are:
(a) the recommendations from a study designed to identify
ways of improving BWDB's staff motivation would be
submitted to IDA no later than December 31* 1986
(paragraph 45);
(b) the results of a review of previous institutional
studies of BWDB and an implementation program would be
furnished to IDA by June 30, 1986 and institutional
improvements sgreed with IDA would thereafter be
carried out (paragraph 47); and
(c) agriculture and fisheries development programs
covered under Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD would be
submitted to IDA for discussion no later than
July 31, 1987, and the one for this project no later
than July 31, 1990 (paragraph 48).



89 4\vt  s  ~\_BANGLADESH
7Ak  t  IN D£ ATHIRD  FLOOD  CONTROL  AND
N;W    D>\ 18E\?\DRAINAGE  PROJECT
Ot TGUMTI PHASE I
- 2- iA r  7 + 1 t - t t A m o r   j & >   t t K (   ( i )   N A O G A O N   P O L D E R   w
1lD\t (E)ADHUMATI-NABAGANGAl
Kopu R   JS  HAT    I2'k\uXX_
'-,   -    Ko!igan -p
AJP~~~~~~~~~~~~F



< a_l~~    Kt                                   e               % ,               0                                                       . 
rhewrldonsssaireorusve- Kolqan \   \                     (                           9J                COMILKH l   (                                      X   
tot Ih                                        e c o    nv               e ni ence o l  the   L  A             -_                         S
Dor Ihe   6a  J    sSQI E R             A             U                                  -
JESSOn  U-  /c *;                                                                                        ;
-21    aNdhlerainlnnc D  A                                                                                    0  A :,  H .               HTT G N /d               
ARI ~         ~           'I
Corporation.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L rhdnmiain  J   .                                           o I i
used and Ihe boundaries shownK ILJ ,N,                                   L                        MoijIi                                       .
on this map do not imply. on the  .                              .    ,                                                       .           I          DA'  I  9A -tak
any ludgmenr on tne legal status                                                                                                          - qza OS
K H    L 'N ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ r.J-    ~'L,'?'
endorsemepnlasoreenacceplaced by                                                                                Ii           j  0 R,                           -g       - -
hsurh p honaris. been piepried bynare                                                                                                                        > .        I- P
Trho World Dank's staff exclusively,            ~.                        PATUAKHALI'                                                            'K
for the convenience of theL                                                      .J
readers and is exclusively for the
internal use of The World Bank                                                                  //
2. and the otnernational Finance                                                                                  B nr                                           _
CHITTAGONG
Corporation. The denominations     J                      .                                                                                                      J             Y
used and the boundariws showT?    ( 
on this map do not A p-y. on the 
part of The World Bank and the 
International Finance Corporation, 
any judgment on t;e legal status
o any territory or any                                                                         Roads
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                   Railways
such boundaries.                                                                        ---District Boundaries
__________________________________                                   -. - )~~~~~~~~~~ntemational Bourndaries              8ousSJza
PAITA                   5- J
~~PAICISTAN      DhaIke?  i 
INDIA     .A~.'t'URMA
BANGLAOESH -
',BURMA
m                                         .                                          0      10   20    30   40   so
>               s~~~ay  ud  Bengal                                              a*   20* 40  
I. ~ ~ ~ 0
/0 SSLAN6A
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                                                                            -



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
QUMTI PHASE I SUB-PROJECT                                                          Ghorasal          Dilalpur Mu
i}  ~~~~J
J  1   Paniaton        _              ,         
\Gobindapur
- - ---dE     / qiS   ffi-ni   --=----1- 
4-~~
t~~~~~~~, .             hf~F~ -aoc    ===--__,,-r_---t
B~~~~~~~~~~
RRegultort
,1                CumLod    -w               =                         _Cum-Lod
-N.        1. 1.                              .                                        L./t S  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  --  -
udkandi --                    '
\ rFeryGhat                                  c   F'l..&n                  d,
(~~~~~ ~  -_ 5.dI''- L'                                                                                    Elliogn
frt /  *               -                                                 PROPOSED PROJECT:
A   A  A     Embonkments
.4Z)                                                                        Main Drainage Khols
0        Regulator Lock
___          Rood Irnprovement
EXISTING:
Metalled Roads
88&   ~    -t.~   42° R.=__                                                     Partly Metalled Roods
*1 .    r           ohrrr2Pt                                         _        Bridges
26     *      r    INDIA       26                                                   Khols
>     . *'* {                                                    -  _        New Droinage K. ils
BANGIADESH    jIrject                                                      New Inigaoion Khols
_240    3@    Dhaka  *24i                                               -  A  -    Embankments
INDIA   .                                                                  I        New lrigotion Intoke Structure
INDIA    7*                                                               Drainage Regulator
.ump Stdion
22-                                                              es irrigofl   Areo   tafi~~~~~~~Wes
22'                 U i                                                                  <S w \ Ir Z SS.-.gE . - WlrroW igon Area(Pump Sttion Daudkondil
voS~~A~l4,          M  .                                          \v\         Eost Irrigation Area
&AOF BENG  -3URlA                            -=---       West Irrigotion Area
0.   90   S---2S-_ Contours



IBRD 1 85L--
idnagar                paniganj
Kalikapur
--            Escapope Spillway Lokshmipur
fVmpanyg              J            Shibnagar                     Monoharpur
DhungarIn
I'- ---  -  /    Bingalbar     b
Ala |-/   9 0ro\> < 3                    Bishnupur          Malapara
J
-  t -.  a
).                              K? lfMonohapur
Chcn =anogar
iofargani ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~          omll
7~~~~~~~~~ 3aio                                                                Komorichor
TZ~~Z~~~                                           .       . 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B egnaulao                                Miam
Barkomta                     '~~~~~~ ~JKacbrapur
Chond,no                                                   -~~~~~~~~ ComiGoindpu
0                        2MILES
F_o.., C.,,~,..7. oo.o,oo-.f.0 00.do  0Z1  i- ffE i_ do -
FEBRUARY 1985



BANGLADESH
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
NAOGAON POLDER SUB-PROJECT
Mahadebpur
~~~~_   <                                       o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SroswoRi ur                        1                  '
,,/;~1                    '     a -                                                                              I:-g+   \/
/   -~~~~~~'>   I  .-"~~~~~~~~~~ ~Goolbari                             Hapa
. !                                              *'-NOLGARA
jX ;0S ' @I ,                                                            Vr' 1SEEL
'-I  ~~~~~                45...  (~~~~~~~~\    i~~mpur              BE"
FI~~ thokota   -      ~~Raypur -- 
Mond~ ~ ~~~~-00V                                                   MONSOR 
C-                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-Q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~         
DIGU
Prosadpur                                                                   8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEt
-~~~~~~5



.2    )>/g   (;;                                                                                     -      Hons_pu
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
=   I= +        J                                    E  CHAIAN                                                         -S G
o                   3                   6 KILOMETERS
I     L      I      I                   I
|                          I          I                                             PROPC)SED PROJECT:
0o2                                        4 MILEES                            ^  ^^        Resecfoning/Raising Existing Low EmbongmentB
N ~.Jd. ., 4" t, > N  ".            *4 N   "                         <                           New Embaniments mw Resectioning/Raing Existing TrO'rs
Ta*  cn 04' 05P elu rW,k HboO uai N hvw.J. Fe  co'wa., .,o                                        New Drainage Canals
cn I9i S~I 151 iV8 I*Ia0P  I71 eWSM    O CUAO Si S5l  t                                          Drains to be Re.excavated
Ea -^ 5 92 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F 0                                           Flushing Sluices
_ ~~~~ jS r  rte  -Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6a ~~~                                Regulators
264   i  fw  NDIA                                               ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~>~<  Water Control Structures
_v } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Rood Improvemenhs
\1  EIAN&l [IADESH    *;)                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING:
24  u  } ) Dhoka g  240~~~~~                                                 Metolleo Rood
/  @# _ ___~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                              PartlyMetalled/UnpatvedRoads
PrNog/t  >  5 ¢  )                                             ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~>_-.  Rivers
Ecctio j                                                                                              Khols
i vdr ls ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Retired Embonlkments G
B *  aAY  Of  BIENGAL              t        ;       i       U R CA                       B40 Contous                  _
j k,   it8         90.         9\?.



BANC'
THIRD FLOOD CONTROL
MADHUMATI-NABAC
/                                                        Mohoinmad~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0pur-
Kamcrkhcli 2!/                                                                   X
K  Mrag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ourawio &
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~~~~   (   'arinadan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z)Lltr
Durgapur~
-L-
Nobatar
Re~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Moba;rt.
Mouaweir 
, . ~~~URMA
-26- S                     26
INDIA
.rAGLADESH2
240           Dhoko.f      240-
Locafion~~
IURMA
8 090                      _    _    _    _    _   _  _    _    _    _    _    _    _ _    _    _    _    _    _



IBRD 1l
-0DESH
AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
-'ANGA SUB-PROJECT                                                              Ba
z    ip l    il/oBShaticPara/  l                   |-                  J
/                                                             /          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HALIFAX CUT
\t~~~~~    ~ ~~~1                                                                     - - 0.ldsrd t- egulotg,;or..... 
Mkrail4._
ID I Doa,ia_h8q
Regu- Io    gt                         -
; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                                     *   RO9\ .lOtQ 
5  Y  -    M  57,'                                PROPOSED PROJECT
__.0 'v --            -                                A  A   EmbanklTents
Regulator                                      rm      Regulol
=.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~--A-~    Embankmentsdpu
- Kolach -and_p__Rood lmprovemenis
EXISTING:
Partly Metolled Roods
2D;-- v_                                                                                           Unmetafled Roads
i   Towns
-' Rivers
M5        Main Drainoge Khols
Regulator                                                                                              Khols
Beels
^  ^  ^    Paved Embonknents
-A-.&-*    Embonkments
_        Regulators
-- --35-- Conlours
O              3              6KILOMETERS
O               2               4 MILES
fl,w  hs . pamnsS ay 7?.  DIbn   IrE -w   Sn 5%' cOfdlt  Of
m.,.a.. 3   ..-..>   S, 9%.(wnhr 5... d__ _f. Yrn. hI?  IbSn  mcV 9%t
F- C. Inr S d                              -_ dsnO .,1 %' O _ r_ C' . 9 W 0
Ir_sn o   l' frryr n  r S._0 _ rcfd. _ ERARY
IEBRUARY 159~



