Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
atO23 gc/_ /
Rhpwt No. P-3665-BT
;RPOTR ANID RECOMMENDATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A1ID DEVEL
ON A
OPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT            TO US$17.3 MILLION
TO TlE
REPUBLIC OF BDTSWANA
FOR A SECOND
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
Jauary 27, 1984
|dcmen hbas a resticted d tUmi    d my be ued by recient ady in the pufi ce f
I thr officid dutis. Its conte- may not ethrwi be dkee.d wihout Wod Bik sui.rbadioLI



CUR ENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                           -        Pula (P) 1.06
Pula (P) 1.00                              US$0.94
ABBREVIATIONS
ALDEP          =        Arable Lands Development Program
BDC                   Botswana Development Corporation
BEDU          =        Botswana Enterprise Developmeut Unit
DEG                   Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
PMD          =        Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappj
Voor-Outwikkelingslander
MSEs          =        Medium-Scale Enterprises
NDB           =National Development Bank
SSEs           =        Small-Scale Enterprises
TGLP                    Tribal Grazing Lands Program
FISCAL YEAR
BDC - July 1- June 30
NDB - April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
2 -
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
*                                         COMPANIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMIKARY
Borrower               :  Republic of Botwaza
Beneficiaries              Botswana Developuent Corporation (BDC)
National Development Bank (NDB)
Amount                  :  US$12.3 million, including front-end fee.
Terms                      Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terum            To BDC for 15 years at variable interest
corresponding to the Bank's;
To NDB for 15 years at interest rate for
Government loans to parastatals (currently
10 percent).
Purpose                :  To provide lines of credit of US$6.2 million to
BDC and US$5.0 million to NDB for financing
productive enterprises in industry and
agriculture. The project would also provide
technical assistance of US$800,000 to strengthen
NDB's capability for playing a leading role In the
development of small and medium-scale enterprises;
and US$200,000 for studies on the future of the
declining mining community of Selebi-Phikwe.
Benefits and Risks     :  The project would help diversify the productive
base of an economy at present dominated by the
mining sector, and create employment opportunities
in industry and agriculture. It also would
enhance coordination aomngst the various financial
and advisory institutions serving local
entrepreneurs. The risk that NDB will have
difficulties in managing its proposed expansion
and diversification is greatly diminished by the
reorganization and training provided by the
project.
Thiisdocurnent hasa rsuawtddistnbutbonandmay be usedby x"tonlyin teperformncer
beor ofFicilduties.Its contentr.may not otherwise be dLwdosedan  World -3nk authoriza^x



-3-
Estimated Disbursemeats:
IBRD Fiscal Year        1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   ti89   1990
Annual            0.3    1.0    1.8    2.4    3.1    2.6    1.1
Cumulative        0.3    1.3    3.1    5.5    8.6   11.2   12.3
Appraisal Report        :  No. 4688-BT (January 26, 1984)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANk
FOR A SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$12.3 million to help
finance a Second Development Finance Companies Project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with a variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECMOOM
2.        The most recent economic memorandum on Botsvana (Report No.
3647-BT) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1982. This
description is based on that memorandum and information obtained on
subsequent missions.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area of
570,000 sq km and an estimated population of 941,000 (preliminary estimate
based on 1981 Census) it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80
percent of the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile
eastern third of the country, however, as two thirds of the country is
covered by the Kalahari Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s were a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary and
balance of payments stability. The mining of diamonds and nickel/copper,
which started in the early 1970s, led to real increases in GDP of 10 percent
a year during the decade. As a result, per capita GNP i rose from US$110 in
1970 to about US$900 by 1981. Increased receipts from the Customs Union 2 ,
direct taxes and mineral royalties caused recurrent revenue to rise nearly 33
percent a year, which was substantially in excess of the growth in recurrent
expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses, together with grants, covered
nearly half of the steadily growing capital expenditures, and since external
borrowing exceeded requirements, the Govermment became a net creditor of the
banking system. The economy also showed overall surpluses in the balance of
payments due primarily to the rapid rise in exports and to large private
1 Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2 The Southern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland
and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import duties and
excise taxes are levied and collected by South Africa, deposited into a
common pool and then distributed to the members based on each country's
share in production and trade.



capital inflows associated with mining investments. By the end of December
1980, net international reserves had risen to about US$261 million equivalent
of mwre than five months' merchandise imports.
5.        During 1981, the slump in world demand for diamonds and metal
prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led, export-dependent
economy. Real GDP declined in 1981/82 and exports and foreign exchange
reserves fell sharply as the diamond mines began stockpiling part of their
production. Receipts from nickel/copper exports also fell, causing severe
financial problems for the mining company.
6.        Total export receipts in 1981 declined by 21 percent, whereas
imports continued to grow. The deficit in the trade and service balance
increased sharply and was not sufficiently covered by inflows on the transfer
and capital account. For the first time in over a decade, Botswana recorded
an overall balance of payments deficit, amounting to US$71 million. Foreign
reserves had fallen to about 3-1/2 months of imports by the end of December
1981. To cope with the economic strains of reduced mineral exports and
revenues, the Government sought to control the growth of aggregate demand by
raising interest rates, restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing a
general wage freeze in early 1982, devaluing the pula by 10 percent in May
1982, and cutting the Government's development budget for FY82/83 by over 15
percent.
7.        In mid-1982, the prospects for Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamDnd mine. Although
Botswana continues to stockpile part of its total diamond production, the
opening of the new mine, at Jwaneng, led to higher export quotas and
earnings. By the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments
was restored and foreign reserves covered almost 4-1/2 months of imports.
8.        The outcome of the 1982/83 3 budget is also likely to be more
favorable than expected because of higher mineral revenues and cuts in
capital spending. Nonetheless, the overall deficit is estimated to amount to
about eight percent of GDP. Disbursements from foreign loans are expected to
cover over 60 percent of the deficit.
9.        Despite very rapid growth during the 1970s, Botswana's economy is
still at an early stage of development, extremely vulnerable to changes in
international mineral and metal markets and to drought and recurring out-
breaks of animal diseases. The mineral-led development has not encouraged
the building up of linkages within the economy and only modestly increased
the number of employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force. Histori-
cally, Botswana's economy has been centered on livestock and, until today,
traditional agriculture and cattle raising have remained the main economic
activity for about 80 percent of the population. However, an increasing
concentration of cattle ownership, partly resulting from drought which
affected mainly owners of small herds, has reduced the options for about 50
percent of the population to make a reasonable living from agriculture alone.
3 The fiscal years runs from April I to March 31.



- 3 -
10.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is to
provide the infrastructure and services required by the more labor-intensive
productive sectors to foster linkages and to create lasting employment
opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at over 3 percent
a year, and is vulnerable to reductions in employment opportunities in South
Africa.
11.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and
professional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive
capacity, encourages the use of capital intensive technology, raises
production costs, and stifles investment.  A high proportion of skilled and
professional positions is filled by expatriates and many posts in Government
(particularly in local government) and the private sector are inadequately
staffed. The manufacturing sector is further constrained by the small
domestic market, the country's limited raw materials base and landlocked
position, and competition from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
12.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is looked
upon as the main source of future employment. Crop farming, however, is
circumscribed by the limited availability of suitable land, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent drought. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological conditions
render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock than crop
production. However, the system of communal grazing, the traditional values
associated with cattle and the granting of substantial subsidies to cattle
owners, have given rise to overstocking and progressive land degradation.
13.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. The Fifth National Development Plan accords high priority to
education, with emphasis on primary education, as a means of alleviating the
country's manpower constraint. Industry is being supported through
promotional activities by the Botswana Development Corporation and through
the provision of tax breaks, preference in bidding for government contracts,
seed-capital for investors, and payroll and training grants. A Tribal
Grazing Lands Program (TGLP) has been implemented since 1975 with the primary
aim of controlling overstocking and range degradation while increasing
incomes from cattle-raising by improving land quality, enhancing range
management and boosting operating efficiency. An Arable Lands Development
Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation designed to raise productivity in
crop farming, was introduced in 1979. Both ALDEP and TGLP are expected to
permit more labor-intensive use of the land.
14.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has been
the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the African Development Bank and
OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral assistance has come from
numerous sources.  In 1978 almost two-thirds of Botswana's outstanding bila-
teral debt was converted into grants. At the end of 1982, total extern:al
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at US$209 million, debt service
payments were US$13.5 million and the debt service ratio 2.9 percent.
Botswana's future external capital requirements will depend on the state of



-4-
the world mineral market and the outlook for diamonds in particular. While
Botswana is expected to continue to receive substantial assistance from
bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or concessional terms, these may
have to be supplemented by loans from commercial sources should current
account deficits rise. However, diamond exports are expected to continue
to recover and Botswana should remain creditworthy for the required
borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
15.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland in
1964, and has approved 13 loans (US$195.6 million, including US$43.5
million on Third Window terms) and six credits (US$15.9 million) for a
total of US$211.5 million (net of cancellations). These loans and credits
have financed five roads projects, three education projects, two livestock
projects, two urban projects, three water supply projects, one development
finance corporation project, one thermal power project, and three
operations to help provide infrastructure for mining development. The
Bank's most recent loan of US$22.0 million for a Third Water Supply Project
will secure the water supply to Botswana's drought-prone capital, Gaborone,
through 1988 and prepare for additional supply after that date. IFC has
had one investment in Botswana: an equity participation of US$370,000 in
the Botswana Development Corporation, approved in March 1979, was increased
by US$481,000 in 1983. Summary statements of Bank Group Operations in
Botswana are provided in Annex II.
16.       The Bank is considering further assistance to Botswaaa through
proposed projects for: (i) family planning and primary health care,
(ii) livestock development, and (iii) education. A Government-Bank team in
1983 carried out a comprehensive study of _Ivestock marketing in Botswana,
and the recommendations for reforms are being discussed with the Government.
Botswana's relative success in economic planning and management has been
studied by a special Bank mission, whose report will be ready early in 1984.
17.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1982 4 was about 36 percent (IBRD - 30 percent,
IDA - 6 percent), and its share in debt service was about 30 percent. The
Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following the conversion of
external debt into grants in 1979. Since then, it has fallen and will
continue to decline, as the Government's borrowings from both official and
commercial sources have been increasing sharply during the past three
years.
18.       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good, and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications. The
most problematical has been the Second Livestock Project (Loan 1497-BT for
4 Preliminary estimate.



US$6.5 million, 1978), which was not initially successful in increasing
commercial ranching under controlled conditions. Good progress was
eventually made on this front, as well as with the establishment of trek
routes and other infrastructure and the strengthening of credit for
livestock development.
19.       Another problematical operation with which the Bank has been
associated is the Shase copper/nickel mining complex based at
Selebi-Phikwe, the irfrastructure for which was financed with the help of
Bank loans totaling US$37.5 million (loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT). Although
the infrastructure works were completed on schedule in 1976, the mining
operation itself has experienced a prolonged financial crisis, caused
mainly by depressed metal prices. This has resulted in three financial
restructurings of the mining company, BCL Limited, which is indirectly
controlled by the Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa Limited and
AMAX Incorporated of the United States, with a 15 percent equity holding by
the Botswana Government. The latest restructuring, approved by the bank's
Executive Directors in June 1982 (Memorandum R82-191), was intended to
reduce the mining company's debt burden by continuing deferrals of interest
and principal payments and converting a large proportion of senior debt to
subordinated debt. In addition, existing subordinated debt was converted
to preference shares. The restructuring also provided for injections of
workivg capital through 1982, and this financial support has continued from
Anglo-American, Amax and the Government. A Project Completion Report was
issued on June 9, 1983. A Project Performance Audit is being carried out.
Disbursements
20.       Botswana's overall disbursement performance has been quite good,
its annual rate of disbursement averaging 22 percent during 1980-83,
compared with a Regional average of 18.5 percent. The rate was affected by
the slow release of funds under the Second Livestock Project and delays in
a component for building materials subloans in the Second Urban Project,
although, in both cases, the Government has taken satisfactory measures to
hasten disbursements.
PART III - THE PRODUCTIVE SECTORS
A. The Manufacturing Sector
21.       Introduction.  The Government is accelerating development of the
manufacturing sector to increase employment, encourage economic
diversification and reduce economic dependence, particularly on the
stronger economy of South Africa. Foreign investment has been emphasized
because of the lack of local entrepreneurship and is supported by good
incentives. More recently, the Government has focussed on the development
of local entrepreneurial skills. There are inherent limitations to an
expansion of manufacturing in Botswana, notably the small size of the
domestic market and the relative efficiency of South African industry.
However, there is scope for growth, especially through exports to established
new markets in Southern Africa and through some import substitution.



- 6 -
22.       Over the past decade the real value added of manufacturing has
doubled; although the sector contributes relatively little to the economy,
its seven percent share of Gross Domestic Product having remained static for
several years. About 8,000 people are employed in some 180 fir,s in the
'ormal manufacturing sector, or about eight percent of total formal sector
employment. Since about 1981, there has been an encouraging trend in the
growth and value added of manufacturing enterprises. Exports of meat
products revived strongly after restrictions caused by an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease were eased, and there have been noteworthy gain. in
the production of other food products and beverages, textiles and clothLng,
metal products and construction materials. Apart from free access of beef
and veat products to the European Economic Community, manufacturing exports
have found an expanded market in Zimbabwe through a trade agreement.
Although Zimbabwe has imposed quotas on textile imports, it remains
Botswana's largest market for textiles.  Prospects are promising for
expansion of exports to South Africa and Malawi, where Botswana's exports can
enter duty free.
23.       About 60 percent of firms are foreign-owned; however, in the past
three years the proportion of locally-owned new enterprises has doubled to
a level of about 15 percent of the total, while a quarter of the
enterprises are joint ventures between local and foreign partners. Also as
a reflection of Government policies to encocrage local entrepreneurship,
the proportion of management and technical positions held by Batswana has
increased in a few years from 39 percent to 61 percent. Apart from these
activities in the formal sector, it is estimated that three times as many
people, totaling about 25,000, are employed to some extent in Informal
trades and services, while countless villagers eke out their living through
handicrafts and various trades.
24.       Institutional Framework.   The Government has strengthened the
previously indifferent performance of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, which has primary responsibility for industrial policy. The mDst
significant advance has been in the quality of information provided to
prospective investors. These efforts are being consolidated under a
newly-formed Trade and Investment Promotion Agency, which will provide a
wide range of investor services, including surveys and feasibility studies.
25.       Another agercy within the Ministry, the Batswana Enterprises
Development Unit (BEDU), was set up 12 years ago to promote development of
indigenous small-scale enterprises (SSEs). However, many firms established
on its industrial estates remained dependent on the Unit for longer than was
intended. Under recent reorganization, the Unit has phased out its support
for inefficient firme and graduated good ones, while expanding its
managerial, technical and training assistance for SSEs. The Government
recently announced proposals for improving coordination among BEDU and a
number of other institutions that support SSEs, and has agreed to discuss
with the Bank a timetable for the proposed measures.



-7-
26.       The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning is Important to
the sector through its administration of infestuent incentives. Also,
leading roles in the sector are played by the Botswana Development
Corporation and the National Development Bank, the two beneficiaries of the
proposee project, whose function is described in paragraphs 33 to 45.
27.       Government Policies.  The prolonged depression of the copper and
nickel markets and periodic setbacks in the livestock sector have
demonstrated the vulnerability of the Botswana economy, while the rapid
growth of mining has had little impact on employmnt.  In these
circumstances, the Gov-ernment is convinced that manufacturing should
*'        contribute more to the balance of payments and to employment.  The Fifth
National Development Plan (1979-85) and the recent Report of the
Presidential Commission on Economic Opportunities aim to create a favorable
climate for foreign investment while gradually enhancing local
entrepreneurship. Such development has been entrusted to the private
sector, although, because of the scale and financial complexity, the
Government is directly involved in the mining enclaves and the strategic
meat-processing industry.
28.       The Government's overall strategy is to encourage an open economy,
with a relatively low external tariff barrier, while providing direct
assistance to help Botswana enterprises establish themselves. Botswana's
investment incentives are among the most generous in the region. They
include low corporate income tax, a high rate of local preference and free
remittance of interest and dividends, backed by political and economic
stability, a sound convertible currency and a lack of foreign exchange
restrictions. The various inducements are being consolidated under the
recently-introduced Financial Assistance Policy, a temporary program for
supporting new and expanding enterprises, foreign and locally-owned. On the
wage front, the Government needs to maintain the constraints introduced
during the recent balance of payments crisis besides linking wage increases
to productivity.
29.       Manpower development.  Botswana is heavily dependent on
expatriate skills. Although these are usually efficiently deployed, the
manpower situation has become increasingly complex and fraught with
incipient long-term difficulties. The Government needs to reassess the
competing manpower needs of the public and private sectors, encourage the
development assistance community to rationalize its provision of
aid-financed personnel, and establish a realistic time-frame for phasing
Batswana into managerial and technical positions. Furthermore,
coordination is poor between various training schemes for Batswana. The
Bank-financed First and Second Education Projects (loans approved in 1976
and 1980, totaling US$20.5 million) are both helping to improve vocational
and technical education. The Government and Bank are discussing an
expansion of such training in the proposed Fourth Education Project, and
the recent Bank-financed Power and Third Water Supply Projects include
sectoral training components, as will the proposed Family Health Project.
The wider issues of manpower development and training are being discussed
with Government in the context of the Bank's Economic Planning and
Management Study (para. 16).



-8-
B. The Agricultural Sector
30.       About 80 percent of Botswana's population depends on traditional
agriculture and livestock for its main livelihood, although, with the rapid
growth of mining in the 1970s, the sector's contribution to GDP has
steadily declined. The sector is dominated by livestock: some 58,000
traditional herdsmen holding 2.5 million cattle and 360 freehold ranchers
owning 500,000 head. The European Economic Community is the main market
for beef exports, which have entered duty free under the Lome II Agreement.
31.       The Government aims to achieve self-sufficiency in food gralns
and vegetables by 1990 through the Arable Lands Development Program, which
includes research, extension, credit, input supplf and marketing
acsistance. The effectiveness of this well-designed program is limited by
a shortage of trained manpower, particularly of extension agents. Ir. the
livestock sector, the Tribal Grazing Lands Program, established ten years
ago, has made slow progress towards its main aims of reducing herd sizes on
overstocked ranges and increasing offtake through the establishment of
leasehold ranches within the communal grazing lands. The current expansion
of abattoir capacity in Botswana, and the recent clarification by the
Government of questions of compensation and ranch allocation, are expected
to give the program a boost. Also, the Government is considering the
findings of a joint Government-Bank livestock marketing study, which
recommends greater commercialization of the industry to exploit its
comparative advantage. The Bank has assisted livestock development through
two loans (para. 18) and is discussing with Government a further livestock
project.
C. The Financial Sector
32.       Botswana's financial sector has been dominated by the two
British-owned commercial banks, Barclays and Standard, whose lending for
manufacturing in Botswana last year increased from five percent to eight
percent of total commercial bank credit, although this is negligible compared
with the finance the banks provide for commerce, mining and agriculture. The
Governmeat proposes to introduce reforms through a Banking Consultative
Committee, which will be formed under the chairmanship of the Bank of
Botswana to establish guidelines for development of banking services. In
particular, the Committee will be charged with encouraging the commercial
banks to make more loans to medium- and small-scale enterpri.   to complement
the operations of the Government-owned financial institutions, notably the
two beneficiaries of the proposed project, whose activities are described
below:
(i) Botswana Development Corporation
33.       Objectives and Organization.  The Botswana Development
Corporation (BDC) was established in 1970 to identify and promote
enterprises in the modern business sector and to provide financial and
management support for them. It is owned by the Government, the majority
shareholder, the Netherlands Finance Company (FMO), the German Finance
Company (DEG) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). BDC's
strong promotional role, its diversity of interest, and the extent to which



- 9 -
it has been involved in direct management make it an atypical development
finance company. Its Board consists of rewresentatives of Government, the
private sector and overseas preference shareholders. It has a professional
staff of about 23, which is experienced and competent and operates
according to sound financial principles. With one exception, key positions
are occupied by expatriates. Under its staff development program, BDC
aims, by 1988, to promote trained Batswana to all managerial positions in
the two departments responsible for project development and supervision.
Ten Botswana graduates employed by BDC are undergoing tertiary-level
training in Britain, Canada and Botswana, and others will be trained on the
job by a newly-appointed training officer.
34.       Portfolio. Most of BDC's inv_astments, totaling US$21.2 million,
are in 26 wholly and jointly-owned subsidiaries, eight associated companies
and five other companies involved in a wide range of activities, including
industrial and residential property (about 39 percent of BDC's portfolio in
1982); tourism, transportation and hotel (30 percent); agriculture (18
percent); and industry and commerce (13 percent). Manufacturing investments
include breweries, furniture i3rkshops, garment factories and concrete
products. In agriculture, BDC's subsidiaries produce cotton, food grains,
citrus and vegetables mainly on previously uncultivated land. Because of the
preponderence of subsidiaries, about 57 percent of BDC's investments are in
the form of equity.
35.       In its formative years, BDC's economic impact was significant.
It made a major contribution to the creation of a modern sector In an
environment in which private entrepreneurship scarcely existed and in which
foreign investment was mainly confined to mining. BDC's investments have
made a substantial, though difficult to quantify, contribution to the
creation of modern sector employment and export earnings. However, in the
late 1970s structural and operational problems arose as BDC's management
became preoccupied in the supervision of the organization's numerous
offshoots, in particular two ailing subsidiaries - a brewery and a botel
management company. As a result, *DC's development activities stagnated
for a number of years, and little progress was made in institution
building.
36.       Following a change of management by BDC in 1980 and the adoption
by the Board of a new statement of -Investment Policies and Procedures',
there has been a marked improvement in BDC's investment criteria and the
quality and diversity of its portfolio. In particular, the relatively bigh
proportion of property investment has been reduced. Procedures for all
departments are being overhauled under a newly-appointed Corporate
Development Officer; training has been strengthened; exposure in any one
project will be limited; and projects with a long-term developmental impact
will be given priority. BDC has provided all of its non-property
subsidiaries with the adequate capital structure they lacked in the past,
and has recently acted to provide amortization schedules for all
development loans to non-property subsidiaries. BDC's Board recently
approved the establishment of an investment trust to help mobilize domestic
savings, and a subsidiary that will provide credit guarantees to co--ercial
banks to encourage their greater involvement in lending for medium- and



- 10 -
small-scale enterprises. BDC's Board has approved an investment Ceiling of
US$51 million for the next five years. For 1984-86, it is projected that
there will be adequate financial and staffing resources and sufficient
viable projects to support investments of US$30 million.
37.    Financial Position. This is characterized by a sound recovery from
BDC's poor performance in the late 1970s and a projected Continuation of
the organization's present adequate profitability. As of June 30, 1983,
assets totaled US$21.1 million, including net fixed assets of US$251,000.
BDC's authorized share capital totaled US$5.0 million, of which US$4.8
million had been issued and fully paid, in the form of ordinary shares of
US$3.7 million owned by the Government and US$1.1 million of redeemable
non-voting preference sbares owned by the Netherlands Finance Coimpawy
(FHO), the German Finance Company (DEG) and the International Finance
Corporation (IFC). Reserves and retained earnings were US$8.8 mllion,
reflecting the greatly improved operating performance since 1979, when
reserves were only US$48,000. Increased injections of equity into BDC and
moderate borrownng in subsequent years resulted In a debt-equity ratio at the
end of 1983 of 0.5:1, compared with 1.1:1 in 1979. BDC's net profit as a
proportion of equity averaged almost 13.5 percent during the organization's
recovery between FY79 and FY83.
38.       To finance the projected investments of US$30.0 million (para.
36), BDC intends to increase its share capital by US$5.6 million, of which
US$3.0 m4llion will be subscribed by the Government in ordinary shares and
US$2.6 million in the form of redeemable non-voting preference shares to be
subscribed by the present preference shareholders, FIO, DEG, and IFC, as
well as the Conmonwealth Development Corporation. IFC approved its
investment in May 1983 and the others were expected to do so early in 1984.
In addition, BDC expects to borrow a total of nearly US$19.0 million from the
Government (US$9.0 million) tne European Investment Bank (US$3.75 million)
and I-BRD (US$6.2 million in the proposed project) and generate about US$8.5
million from its own operations during 1984-86. Debt-equity is expected to
increase to the still conservative level of 1.5:1 by FY88; and the
institution has agreed that its debt-equity ratio will not exceed 5:1 (draft
BDC Project Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 3.04).
39.       Provisions for Losses. Although some of BDC's subsidiaries have
made modest losses, the portfolio's financial health is generally good.
BDC annually adjust.s provision for bad deL;s during a review of investament
performance. As of June 30, 1982, these provisions amounted to US$898,000,
mostly relating to agricultural projects and the small national airline,
which is run by a BDC subsidiary. The airline has made minor losses in
recent years, although its prospects have improved since South Africa
Airways withdrew its service to Botswana. The Government bas informed the
Bank that it intends for Air Botswana to be operated on commercial.
principles, and expects the current modest expansion of the airline's fleet
of small planes to lead to a profitable operation.



- 11 -
(ii) National Development Bank
40.       Objectives and Organization. The National Development Bank (NDB)
was established by the Government in 1963 as the country's first
development bank, with a mandate to operate in the various productive
sectors. However, it has concentrated over the years on making small or
micro- loans, usually of less than US$5,000,to small farmers and
livestock-holders. Only since 1980 has the institution financed commercial
agriculture and small and medium-sized industrial and commercial
enterprises (SSEs and MSEs). The Government and NDB propose to rationalize
thcse developments through a policy statement (covering long-term
objectives, investment and financial criteria and procedures) and a
detailed strategy for 1DB 's activities during the next three years, so that
the institux-5on will continue to be the main source of agricultural micro
credit whlle assuming a leading role in the development of SSEs and hSEs.
NDB's Board has formally approved both statements.
41.       NDB is wholly owned by the Government, which appoints members of
the Board from the private and public sectors. Of the 36 professional
staff, 14 are expatriates, most financed by aid agencies. Because of the
shortage of qualified local professional staff, there are no Batswana
counterparts. The General Manager, who is a Notswana, has provided strong
leadership in changing the organization's orientation since he was appointed
to the position four years ago. NDB proposes to create two new departments:
a Development Banking Operations Department to lead the SSE and MSE
operations; and a department whose main function will be to manage the micro
credit operations. NDB is also introducing improved procedures for project
appraisal, supervisiou, procurement and debt collection.
42.       Portfolio. NDB's loan portfolio at the end of August 1982
totaled US$21.0 million, of which 65 percent was in the form of small loans
for agriculture, livestock and associated water development, and the rest in
SSE and MSE projects. Loan approvals in FY82 amounted to US$11.7 million,
compared with US$1.2 million in 1979, and included 3,900 loans for small
farmers and NDB's first relatively large loans (exceeding US$100,000) for
commercial agriculture. Industrial lending was for SSEs in such spheres as
meat processing, dry cleaning, textiles and construction. Comercial loans
were mainly to retailers and street vendors. Total approvals for the five
years 1984-88 are expected to amount to US$89.0 million, about 56 percent of
which would be for micro credit, 5 amounting to US$49.0 million. However,
overall real expansion will not take place until 1987, as the Bank will seek
assurances from NDB that it will continue the rate of growth of its
operations at the FY84 level in real terms for FYs85 and 86 to avoid undue
strain on NDB's management capability during the proposed reorganization
(draft NDB Project Agreement, Section 3.08).
5 Micro credit in this context is defined as agricultural loans below
US$20,000, although the average is much smaller; and
cozmercial/industrial loans below US$5,000.



- 12 -
43.       Financial Position.  As of March 31, 1983, NDB had assets of
US$30.6 mdllion, including net fixed assets of US$0.9 million. Its capital
of US$5.2 million consists mainly ,f unorthodox -unrecallable- funds provided
by the Government on which NDB is usually expected to pay interest. Ss a
condition of effectiveness, the Government is required to provide NDB with a
capital structure satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(c)). Because of its recent portfolio expansion, NDB's borrowings total
US$24.3 million, resulting in a debt-equity ratio of 5.2:1 as of March 1983.
Its commitments through September 30, 1986, are estimated at US$43.5 million,
compared with forecast resources consisting of US$25.0 million from internal
cash generation; proposed lines of credit of US$5.0 million from the Worle
Bank and US$2.0 million from the African Development Bank; Government loans
of US$2.3 million; and additional Government equity (including some
conversion of dividends into equity) of US$1.3 million. The resulting
resource gap of about US$8.0 million is expected to be financed by loans from
the Government and aid sources. The additional Government equity would
reduce the debit-equity ratio to 4.9:1 in FY84, and NDB has given assurances
that the ratio will not exceed 5:1 (draft NDB Project Agreement, Section
3.04). However, the debt-equity ratio in effect is projected to decline
gradually to a level of 3.4:1 by March 1988, while NDB's profitability would
improve over the period of project implementation and there would be no
significant deterioration in the coverage of debt-service by NDB's operating
income, which, by 1988, would cover almost three times the debt-service
obligations.
44.       To compensate for losses expected because of the high cost of
administering NDB's micro credit operations, the Government has agreed to
make annual cash grants to the organization that would increase with the
growth of micro-lending, from about US$780,000 in 1985 to US$1.2 million in
1988, depending on the level of micro credit operations, cost of loan
administration and provision for losses (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). The Bank is satisfied with the arrangement in view of: (i) the
relatively small amounts involved; (ii) the limited use of the subsidy; (iii)
the fact that it will be administered separately from NDB's other operations,
with separate accounting; and (iv) the Government's excellent record in
maintaining sound financial performance in its parastatals. It is expected
that the size of the grant will level off after 1988, and ultimately be
reduced, as NDB improves the efficiency of its micro-lending operations, and
as such lending diminishes as a proportion of NDB's overall portfolio.  NDB
has agreed to investigate ways of reducing administrative costs of its micro
credit, and by December 31, 1984, will submit its findings to the Bank (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 2.10).
45.       Debt Recovery.  Because of a deterioration in the quality of the
loan portfolio caused by the drought of the past two years and poor project
supervision and loan collection, loan arrears of more than three months
totaled US$1.5 million as of August 31, 1982. Apart from the proposed
improvement in operating procedures (para. 41), NDB is taking special
action to reduce the arrears and expects significant improvement in 1984.
NDB plans to increase the level of bad debt provisions to 5 percent of the
outstanding loan portfolio at the end of each year, which the Bank
considers adequate.



- 13 -
Bank Group Operations and Strategy in Sector
46.       The Bank approved its first line of credit of US$4.0 million to
the Botswana Development Corporation in June 1974, and this was fully
disbursed by March 1982. The Project Completion Report of March 16, 1983
(No. 4385) noted that BDC had taken major initiatives in encouraging
private sector activity in Botswana, but its impact on industrial
development had been limited. Improvements recommended by the Bank had, in
several instances, been slow to materialize; however, BDC's new management
had put in train most of the reforms referred to above to improve
operational procedures ance the developmental impact of its investments.
IFC is a preferential shareholder in BDC and increased its investment by
US$481,000 in 1983. The Bank supported the expansion of the National
Development Bank's livestock credit operations through the Second Livestock
Project (para. 18). The Government and Bank agree on two important overall
objectives: viz, that labor-intensive industrial enterprises should be
fostered as one of the few available means of providing employment and
diversifying production, and that greater efficiency in freehold ranzhing
and marketing should be encouraged as part of a program to increase the
profitability of the livestock sector. As the operations of BDC and NDB
are directly relevant to these goals, the Bank is supporting the Government's
policy of strengthening the institutions and enhancing the long-term
developmental content of their operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
47.       In May 1982, the Botswana Government requested Bank assistance
for the Botswana Development Corporation and the National Development
Bank. The Bank was familiar with the operations of BDC through its
previous line of credit, but, as it had only a partial knowledge of NDB, it
requested the Government to review the role and proposed status of the
organization.  The report of the review, carried out by consultants, was
submitted to NDB and the Bank in February 1983, and the Bank appraised the
project in March/April 1983.
48.       Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. between November 28
and December 2, 1983. The Botswana deiegation was led by Mr. B. Gaolathe,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning. Annex
III contains Supplementary Project Data.
Project Objectives
49.       The project will support the Government's priorities for creating
employment and diversifying the economy through the establishment of
productive enterprises outside the capital-intensive mining sector. It
will also rationalize and expand assistance to small farmers who are
expected to be surplus-producers. It would also enhance the Bank's dialogue
with the Government on broader sectoral issues such as interest rates and



- 14 -
financial sector coordination. Specifically, the project will help finance
productive-sector sub-projects of the Botswana Development Corporation (BDC)
and the National Development Bank (NDB) (whose operations are described in
Part III), and provide technical assistance for NDB to play a leading role in
the development of small and medium-scale enterprises. For BDC, the project
would help finance a proposed investment program of US$30 million for
FY84-86. Sixty percent of those investments will be directly in productive
sub-projects in industry and agriculture, including commercial mixed farning,
dairy farming, agro-processing, and metal fabrication. A significant
proportion will be for the development of industrial estates and factory
shells. The investment program is expected to support 40 medium-sized
enterprises and 50 smaller ones. For NDB, finance would be provided for a
total investment program during 1984-86 of US$43 million, about half of which
would be micro credit, while much of the remainder would be for the
development of MSEs and SSEs and commercial agriculture. NDB sub-projects
vill include textile production, construction, metal-work, woodworks, general
wholesale, retail and distribution operations, and four comparatively large
operations in commercial agriculture.
Project Description
50.       The proposed project consists of:
(a)   line of credit of US$6.2 million for BDC;
(b)   line of credit of US$5.0 million for NDB;
(c)   US$800,000 for technical assistance and
training for NDB;
Sd)   US$200,000 for studies.
Terms and Conditions
51.       The Bank loan of US$12.3 million (including front-end fee) would
be to the Government of Botswana for 15 years, including three years'
grace. Excepting funds retained for technical assistance and studies, the
Government would onlend a total of US$11.2 million to the beneficiary
institutions, on the following terms:
(a) To BDC for 15 years at a variable rate
corresponding to the Bank's;
(b) To NDB for 15 years at the rate (currently 10
percent) in effect at the time of signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for Government loans to
parastatals.
52.       BDC makes loans at interest rates between prime rate (currently 13
percent) and prime plus three percent, consistent with its policy of
adjusting interest to cover costs and loss provisions and produce a moderate
profit. The rates are positive (the inflation rate is currently between 10
and 11 percent) and in line with prevailing real interest rates in Botswana.
NDB would similarly cover costs on its large loans, for which it is currently
charging up to 18 percent. However, for agricultural micro credit, NDB would



- 15 -
follow established Goverament policies that limit the amount of interest
charged to very smaLl farmers and small livestock-holders for seasonal
inputs, farm improvements and water development. As the cost of
administering these micro loans is exceptionally high because of the large
numb-r of loans involved and the large area covered, the 16 percent rate that
would be charged by NDB for such credit, although positive and above the
prime rate, will not cover administration costs and would be supplemented by
the annual grant that Government will make to NDB to cover the cost of its
micro credit operations (para. 44). NDB has given assurances that the
minimmn interest rate it will charge during its fiscal year 84185 will be 16
percent. The Bank will review lending rates annually with BDC and NDB (draft
BDC Project Agreement, Section 2.08; draft NDB Project Agreement, Section
2.09).
53.       The Government would bear 91.8 percent of the foreign exchange risk
of the IBRD lines of credit under a formula it has established for loans to
parastatals (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c) and (d)). Both BDC and
NDB would bear the residual risk themselves rather than pass it on to
sub-borrowers. This is acceptable to the Bank, as the residual risk is
tantamount to the fee normally expected from DFCs in such circumstances; and
in view of the positive interest rates charged by BDC and NDB. Both
organizations would reimburse the Government for the IBRD front-end fee and
commitment charge (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 Cc) and (d)).
Project Implementation
54.       BDC's staff is adequate for its proposed investment program, as
is NOB's planned reorganization. BDC has introduced a satisfactory
operational manual as part of its current corporate development; NDB has
hired a consultant to prepare one. The Government, through the Ministry of
Finance and Development Planning, will pass on the technical assistance funds
to NDB as a grant for recruiting key personnel and training Batswana staff as
part of NDB's reorganization. To facilitate this, NDB will need, on a
condition of loan effectiveness, to create and fill the positions of
Assistant General Manager for development banking and Senior Project
Officer. Also a Finance Manager and Legal Officer should be recruited by
September 30, 1984. A Chief Accountant has recently been appointed.
Furthermore, NDB needs to recruit at least six Batswana university graduates,
in addition to six recently recruited, in the next five years to build up a
cadre of Batswana professional staff. Batswana counterparts should be
assigned to all expatriate division managers by June 198b (draft NDB Project
Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). To supplement these measures, the technical
assistance included in the project would strengthen NDB's training unit,
which has made good progress in the past three years in arranging in-house
and external courses for Batswana professional staff. The project's
US$800,000 for technical assistance for NDB would finance 140 staffmonths of
key personnel and consultants for the proposed reorganization, at an average
cost of US$5,000 per staffmonth; and tuition and training for NDB's Batswana
professional staff.



- 16 -
55.       The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning will directly
supervise the use of the US$200,000 provided by the project for sectoral
studies that would prepare a technical assistance project to determine
productive options, in such spheres as manufacturing and large-scale
agricultural development, that would be available to the mining community of
Selebi-Phikwe and its environs when its economically recoverable reserves of
ore decline, probably early in the next century. A special Government task
force has reviewed the findings of several existing general or
sector-specific studies relating to the town's future.  The next step will be
to carry out a comprehensive study of the available options. This would be
implemented through the proposed technical assistance project, which the
Bank is wiling to consider financing.  To prepare such a project, the
present project would finance about 20 staffmonths of consultancy services at
an average cost of about US$10,000 per staffmonth.
Reporting and Auditing
56.       Both BDC and NDB would be required to submit quarterly reports to
the Government and Bank on their operational and financial status (draft
BDC Project Agreement, Section 2.05; draft NDB Project Agreement, Section
2.06(b)). They would also be required to submit, within six months of the
close of each financial year, audited annual accounts prepared by qualified
auditors acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate portfolio analysis, BDC has
agreed to keep separate accounts for working capital loans to its
subsidiaries and associated companies (draft BDC Project Agreement, Section
3.01).
Procurement
57.       Procure.ent of goods and services under the BDC and NDB lines of
credit would be according to the organizations' established or proposed
procurement practices, which are in line with those followed by
Bank-assisted DFCs, being based on a system of competitive quotatiors.
Consultants required to assist training and sectoral studies would be
selected and employed under terms and ccnditions acceptable to the Bank.
The qualifications and experience of marnagement personnel to be recruited
for NDB under the technical assistance component would also be acceptable
to the Bank (draft Loan Ag-eement, Section 2.02 (b)).
Disbursements
58.       Loan proceeds used for financing sub-projects would be disbursed
for: (a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods into Botswana;
(b) 80 percent of the local cost of goods previously imported into Botswana
through normal trade channels; (c) 75 percent of the cost in local currency
of civil works included in sub-projects; and (d) 100 percent of expenditures
for expatriate staff and consultants. An economic rate of return would be
calculated for subprojects using more than US$130,000 and US$100,000 by BDC
and NDB respectively, this rate to be at least 10 percent (draft BDC Project
Agreement, Section 2.01(b); draft NDB Project Agreement, Section 2.03(a)).
Of the US$5.0 IBRD line of credit to NDB, not more than US$2.0 million would
be available for financing agricultural and/or micro loans without the Bank's



- 17 -
approval so that adequate proceeds are available for MSE and SSE development
(draft NDB Project Agreement, Section 2.03(c)). BDC would not use Bank funds
for property development except for industrial estates and construction of
factory shells (draft BDC Project Agreement, Section 2.02(c)). Disbursements
of the Bank loan would be made through FY89 for BDC and FY90 for NDB,
assuming that BDC's final commitment of sub-loans will be in mid-1986 and
NDB's in mid-1987.
59.       Free Limit.  For BDC, a free limit of US$250,000 is proposed for
any sub-project, while there would be an aggregate free limit of US$1.5
million (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). This would ensure that
the Bank would review sub- projects accounting for total of 75 percent of
the proceeds of the line of credit. In addition, BDC would not use Bank
funds in excess of US$1.3 million to finance an individual sub-project
(draft Loan Agreement,Section 1.01(e)). NDB would be allowed a free limit
of US$50,000 for a single sub-project and an aggregate free limit of US$3.0
million (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). This would enable the
Bank to review most medium-sized sub-projects, while providing latitude to
NDB for disbursements of micro credits and small loans. To ensure that NDB
emphasizes assistance to MSEs and SSEs, Bank finances would not be provided
to NDB projects costing above US$500,000 (draft Loan Agreement, Section
1.01(e)). To facilitate disbursement of NDB's micro credit, the Government
will establish a Special Account in a local financial institution
acceptable to the Bank against which NDB could claim reimbursement for
micro loans upon acceptable evidence of expenditure. The Bank would fund
the account initially with US$250,000, anc replenish it to a total limit of
US$2.0 million. Establishment of the fund is a condition of disbursement
of the NDB component of the Bank's loan (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para. 3).
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would help diversify the productive base of an
economy at present dominated by the mining sector, and create employment
opportunities in industry and commercial agriculture. By involving
Government and the country's two leading development institutions, the
project would enhance coordination and complementarity among the various
financial institutions, including the commercial banks and agencies providing
technical assistance, training and advisory services to local entrepreneurs.
Notably, the proposed project will strengthen NDB's institutional capability
for playing a leading role in the development of small and medium-scale
enterprises. NDB's micro credit operations, while not being directly
profitable to the institution, will support small farmers who are expected to
be surplus-producers. Although it is difficult at this stage to quantity the
number of new jobe that would be created under the project, it is estimated
that the subprojects assisted under the Bank loan would provide direct
employment to about 5,000 Batswana at an estimated average cost per job below
US$7,500. This compares with a cost per job of about US$14,500 in real terms
in the Bank's previous DFC operation in Botswana. This operation was limited
to BDC and financed a relatively small number of projects which on average



- 18 -
were considerably larger than the average size of the BDC and NDB subprojects
to be financed through the proposed loan. The Bank's involvement in the
proposed project is appropriate because of the importance of the DFC
subsector to economic diversification in Botswana and in view of the Bank's
ongoing experience with BDC and NDB, the latter through livestock credit.
Moreover, the Bank is likely to act as a catalyst for attracting other
finance for the two institutions.
61.       The risk that NDB will have difficulties in achieving its broader
developmental function would be greatly diminished by the structural
reorganization and expansion of key staff proposed by the project, and the
project's provision for the training of Batswana.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Botswana and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Botswana
Development Corporation and the Bank and the National Development Bank
respectively, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agrement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report. Special Conditions of Effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement are that the Government has provided NDB with a capital structure
to the Bank's satisfaction and that key personnel have been employed by NDB.
64.       I an satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
January 27, 1984



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 19 -                                            ANN  1
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
OSANA                  - SOCIAL IUDIATORS DATA SU1T
Amu"&                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICGUTE  AVAGES) a
Nsr                    (CDST  CENIT ESTIMATE) lb
t,e../   1,70/  SSTIUTHk         111005 INCulNE         HINDLe INCUINE-
196D       1701  ESTIT  la         AFRICA S. OF SAlARA    N. AFRICtA 6 *U *sr
ABU (INSN  SQ. MI)
TDTAL                              60O.4       600.4       600.4
AGRICULTURAL                       428.0       439.7       453.6
9W PM cAPITA (Us)                      90.0       180.0      1010.0           1147.9                    1340.u
-NE    a laTm   a  cAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUtVALENT)        ..         ..        377.0            724.2                    8L10.4
POPULAn  IAU VI L STATISTICS
POPULATtON.HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    517.0       634.0       930.U*
zURz POPULATIS (S OF TOTAL)         1J          9.5        20.2             28.5                      47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPU.ATION EN tEAR 2000  UILL)                             1.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                               5.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. READLED                             2125
POPULATIOn DOrSjTY
PEa AQ. gm.                        0.9         1.1         1.5             56.5                      3b.0
PER 5.4. KM. ASGR. LAND            1.2         1.4         2.0            131.8                     449.0
POPULATION AGZ STECTORE (.)
0-14 WRS                         45.9        48.7        50.5             45.9                      43.9
15-64 YRS                         51.4       48.5        46.9              51.2                      5Z.8
65 AND ABOVE                       2.7         2.8         2.6              2.8                       3.3
POPULATION CaOUT  RATE (Z)
rOTAL                              1.7         2.0         3.5              2.8                       2.9
Uiia                              17.9        18.9        10.3              5.3                       4.6
CRUDE lIRTil RATE (PEa THOUS)         ..          ..        50.5             47.6                      42:5
CRUDE DEATH RAe (PER THOUS)           ..          ..        16.3             15.2                      12.u
GROSS REPRODUCtION RATE               ..          ..         3.2              3.2                       3.0
FAIIELY PLANISNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUIAL (THOUS)          ..          ..        11.3*c
USERS (Z OF HARRIED NONE)           ..          ..
FOD AM NUTITIOII
INDEX OF FOOD PMOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       91.0        96.0        70.0             95.7                      97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)      87.0        85.0        90.0             97.1                     102.3
PROTELNS (GRAMS PeA OAY)          71.0        69.0        6.U              56.0                      72.u
OF WIlCO  ANIMAL ADU PULSE       35.0        34.0        33.0/c           17.2                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) lEATH RATE         22.6        18.7        13.5             Z3.b                      15.2
hEALTH
LIFE EXPErT. AT  ItS1 (YEARS)         ..          ..        51.2             51.9                      57.2
fNFAH.'r HORT. RATE (PER TUOUS)    114.6       100.1       81.6             117.6                     104.2
ACCESS W0 SAF9 WATER (Lro)
TUTAL                               ..        Z9.0       ,45.0d           25.4                      59.3
UK1AH                               ..        71.0       95.0/d            7U.5                      84.9
IURAL                               ,         26.0        39.0/d           12.3                      37.5
ACCESS TW EJCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATlON)
TDTAL                               ..          ..
URBA                                ..          ...
ZURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PhYSICIAN         25a50.0    15460.0       9970.0/d        12181.b                    3536.0
POP. PhlK NURSLNG PERSON          5480.0/e   1Z50.0       1320.O7JT        2292.0                    1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL am0
TOTAL                            510.0       380.0       360.0/f         1075.4                     643.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        60.07i          402.3                     545.0
IURAL                               ..          ..      44W.07           3926.7                    246Z.U
ADMISSIONS PER tOSPITAL 3             ..        15.3        27.01d             ..                      26.4
UUSDIC
AVERAGE SIZE OF tOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          .5
URBAN                               4. 
RURAL                                                      5.Ojj
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSCNS/ROOM
WTAL                                ..          .           .
UR.
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (_ OF DWELLXNGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..               ..                      46.2
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..               ..                      77.6
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..               ..                      16.1



E  - 20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T_A_B L_C 3A
BOTSWANA              - SOCIAL ENDICATI;S DArA SNEET
ICSWWANA                            REFERENCE GOUPS (cEIcTMD AVERAcu) n
It05T             tHDWST IICCCI CBSDtNATC)nWh
MOST                                    lb~MS?RCETluaE)/
RECENT            MIDDLE ICOtE        MIDDLE rHCOQ
960/h     1970/b  C I            ArRICA s. or SAHARA   N. AFRICA  MD EAST
SCTIDN
ADOUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  42.0       69.0       102.0             97.2                     59.9
YALE                   35.0       65.0       92.0             103.1                    104.5
FEMALE                43.0        73.0 1n1.0                   33.5                    72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  1.0        7.0        22.0             17.2                     41.7
HALE                     .         e.0       20.3              23.5                    52.8
FEIALE                 1.0         7.0       23.0             14.2                     31.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)         4.2       19.4         8.6              5.2                     10.3
PUrPL-TEACHIR RATIO                                                                                                               4
PRIMART                          31.0       36.0        32.0             42.9                     31.9
SECONDARY                        12.0       15.0        18.0             23.7                     23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (z)            20.0/h                 35.0             37.1                     43.3
COtlnOII
PASSENcER CARS/THOUSAND POP         2.5        2.8         6.0/            18.8                     19.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        4.1       31.5        74.4             97.9                    139.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            ..         .           ..             19.6                     45.6
NEVSPAPErR ('DAILY CENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             .        20.5        19.6             18.2                     31.0
CINDIA ANNUAL ArTENDANCE/CAPITA      ..        0.2         O.I/d            0.6                      1.7
LASOR
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         263.0      296.0       398.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 49.8       52.6        50.8             36.1                     10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            92.0       87.0        78.3             56.1                     42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0        4.0         7.7             17.5                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            50.9       46.7        42.8             37.0                     25.6
HALE                             53.2       47.7        43.6             47.1                     45.4
FUtALE                           48.9       45.9        42.0             27.0                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.0        1.1         1.2              1.3                      1.8
INCU  DISTRIUTOE
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICREST 51 Or HOUSEIMLDS           .        28.1/         .
RICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..       60.37                          ..
LOWlEST 202 OF HDUSENOLDS          ..        1.67 
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        7.67         ..               ..                       .
OST TAWRCC CSO
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
BRIN                               ..         ..       24.0             534.2                    276.1
RURAL                              *-         *-       154.0            255.9                    177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY- INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
ORBAN                              ..         ..       303.0            491.5                    400.0
RURAL                              ..         ..       303.0            199.1                    283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVSTr INCOME LEVEL (t)
RIMN                               ..         ..        40.0                                      22.0
RURAL                              ..         ..        55.0                                      30.6
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICARLE
N o T E S
fa The group averages for each Indletor are populatlon-elghted arlthltlc ma". CovragE of  umEries asoa  ths
indicators depends on avallablLity of data and Is not elfor.
lb Unlem otherwise noted. Data for 1960 refer to any year betwmen 1959 and 1961: 'Data for 1970- betaee a 1969 aS
1971; and data for 'Most Recent etimte beteen 1979 and 1931.
Ic 1977; Id 1975; /e 1962; If 1976; Is 1978; lh Prior to 1965; /1 1971-72. ec_onLcally actli  population.
wy 1993



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-21-                                                           ~~~~~~ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 
lViNttlltiii Up MWIKIAL lINtIiATteS
Wiglli  Attnlthll It. dlate.   dralinjft..:.titnig-        nril  ti4ind  Lii.  _tn _Nitisrtgl_i te                 isiule   In ubusi  sIc. hi nened FMlba. y -y -1 ,   In ltisatnully11
riaPt. tabinbia.eiF  Min tieb- iF  IaddId d.FAlinait-s liS  anrp.  aI  d by dtifanin  -nIar.. in  -1ilnrntu   tIe dii..  Tma d iin.. ..tit.sbuia    sain  C.
d.nnrlbn  ice. Ii e.gnctlnid.. Inidir..itimUrns, andrairri   eti   i    dlllirire     iabine.,rnll
..Jnimni?lisrpi FIr "11gbt.wI.a."ll fpne."  rs                   ten   Mudl   tt ..tr    Atire,-    I.h illi.u5 -I tn... h.i.ii .1--   IIIrtiai  aiftict-furfii              h
iniitad  nrltn    n                 -11.    Eu eitAIR. te. anura..ie   mi nueliutl  iire irn  i                          it.e  inn  lmiltey  in. -J,tUna       i m t b. cuatry-  toA
.-:.I fuuln  *.h.. ILL            Ifteit..nt  i                                                                    ytke Ii% ....I.kV..1  - L Ip  iiae  inhe.  y nehe  iF pr &eetmnin
and miii dii.                                               PL,eulint.n pee tunic9fern.. - i%pt ite  dlni  by -idbnr If pribitteilg,
iriruinu. -I -   iT   i   1arrlui   n               i    erfrti.   ennit                               eniii.t  arad                --te  n Pri .. eMumnnanimcii. iristlgnort inn.  arS
tnte erap so PAili..  aiiniPd ttb    mt...a.n i.Fei..... urin    uI'tni
-           inc era CAPITA il!sf) - ~Mif pr ..it,.l  et ....  .. -i-lt  -ar-e  reman,.. mutabl  in  iabiti iS4 prinili ge-re  end ipliealind banpili  ad
gr1iTUiF~innieritui   tiad an IirId I-I Anti. III11-S  bWInIm                                 rahbitb:Iitl.tanRs.  Itapistati are ntinalhitiil   penn...tp   aFF
IKe,. ISIS. am   aIlg  AMi.                                                                           by anini it.Aecn.nAL.lbililbaiti preu,diti  prlntpntglly   ida
mmneniCtiytiif PCsi er   APITA - A.-n-ii  rannniinnn   tnein                                           tirieum    eninnyii   Sbeniena                                  byeL  cdliiiL
ad  giuherne  eteentnltp  in bl..gns  if eiel etsnnute.   per : rpte -rndna1tidra                                     :t indl Il   d11 FlIttpen. fir nilttti b   npa
ntis. Iili~~~~~~ ad  Jig) dat..                                                      ncbai~~~~~d  ..  tI.npitrt. tnrsd   Riii. prtstpell.,rc  bnnpltiliit ..euiid mccl
L                                                                                                                          inin~~8thM1.111ety   -WalsRpltid. .I c!  Mr Mura Ifnp Wnin i ams.dta  end n1liritlyti ninnie
PmiPniATyiig MM SITAL iTAtlitMTI.                                                                         Spneldbapti   r  insdul  inAn                     .hig
.n....... TtAtathua5i      g fJ.17 I; illS. tlae. ..in  Itt                                Abtini.iiZI jpji,t.ednil III - nlet nn.sWr if   elil ti  Wm dtIbRarg..a
It .                                                                                            3.71i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F. i.nlii   ieddb  tyu  sidter iF buds.
tubnMM     itnniemn   FmliI-Sn.i  arbu I. ne.! I.i1 ls
---. -matrl""I int, lilil, -i titMI. nrg  lne="  teil%.ennne   amebd)-nt.ube us mIi
fnei.i.tlsny-rCnr-iPrt3imn                                                                    .- A nnhndmur iie  a .            rI.p A If IdInIdealy ITa im e    fiin   qaclir
~jflTiriu3aT)iiby  -_  irrnn . cneITh Inn pr --etiMt,  irn and       i  mis"Pa ibaIr nei Ie.Illt. iiite m -in  agrl                                 e aln   n .iddi
-L..FJla?  .ag     a   sin- cI-  i-bair unnntny-pL an  nrnlnb                                   nbapd Mnbald  Fir  iilmnl     pnre-e
rein --nn    ..ini   d ant finale   lt inelair-y nLsbIlnetn.  at t 1.1                        dii Itig..1-epitlluuiy.  I  [etiteg  urInd. inn-pni.e-enan nlritsr   iS
yer.Therainnnn         FircrntIny caf. innh. ttu  in   lenui                                  _enesli  Pe.-
a   dh iitleM  fetiin   ainrdling ni turine           .    . milta tpn  nuttly             A-ri. inR.lusttn In-rr  .f dinlinul    nna. nnbau. -d rura  -
rstate -Fnrnetn if5  fert'Ilty tined  fir Pnjr- iLni. prpnet.                            if tiit  stbnn, a   runt d-It.tngn   enpnitKety.
nie _I btrtb  run  in  :iqa  is ihe deaIn  ae   idit . big                                riCA~TMiM
inennice nieing csatan    ThinI -hirbedn    eftIr         ninty rate                   At1Tdi!ie! ii,,
d innilb. rep-ineist tenet it ni  net rnpradantun  nanu. Sin                                 1ifi,iRinlTil    g   nsul  - (rei  sunii. eli ad fangliji
Lentn. aft CM  nip.a.lnn   in ti. yer  il 20 d0  n-   a rIte iF      , din  r.ty                           bun e,djnlid fnldIc dtFr-t liglbh  It p-rice   Snillui ay
Illgalinty elit  II replI-ne.n  I.-t.                                                                _ rItnlfla  Lnb aiurincee   deitie   -1rileean nay -asild too pern
Yernutiiy  -lstiene   in remn    _ lbe pier ieunitutnary                                      mie .in  pplin  inn tel- in ib     lb. iffniut nobeli ee.
iytnta- ItLin  b. ruatid.                                                                _undatab_u  - snai  nuf   .5reel  - C-nnuda  ilitut iy
ref   -  s.     14t-yner ppyil.tan pe     kqir     it. -1, liii hettrie  ii                            p-ildes xaes.a.  -tinesit. nr tleab.r traiin   -tintreiin   n
S'EtaliAn  lrti E ferr. I- CkInlte-  (i-IA  peiri), nkit-g   (15-                             inii   sbla~ndIcila. e   ia   egmnitihaiieldpd
Fiers), is  rnleed           Illpee. ad -inet       peruin   F aid-year                          nutly   radepgrinet  If innisry 1-ina tlnlli.
pee  nrsftne Fr  PSOSi. in-u.  d   Ue-l.runeirn   rletnin.iicl.   .  b
Puettits teniti tn. (anrnni- uran    anMi- grnbnrifibnMiiItn Iile F-rresi  - Lne-t  dill.  ablia Wi caOd isWise) 
yapslaltIa                                                                                                                 MOM.a..Si-i.S    lOil    irnei   fnnTf   pirinenal  ) er alur
Crsdn Sint Sen  (per  b.aian.) - Mau   line ina.   per tbaancid in c"Iid-.:Ved157--.
yea   iilaln;Ven   U)  end ..ilit deli.                                                         CliStfTlION
Ce.de fMlI, iUin  Ine bth""d)   A- Ms-itdeb  Pit Ibaunid oF .14d-Iteer                              fen..  tr   ner and Wumnlnltt-l - Pecaengirea. sWtl.  -eser
Cr ai lait ISd S. 1  WO  andfti.                                     l till das,                     ear n.l.I.            sseni   eena   nmnftinu   saci
--iIitdi .di       t na  pensd If gie1      rniuep,is                Wa-inftin                  id4te  nerlI=rn Ilia        _.ann   er.IRitanti) _ Alltyip_s 5e  _iee_n  fele radio
f-riINTl   ta -a; inaItyFle a  inetage  niLng Is tilt   1170. ad                                    brndic... in g- er   pnblk  per iteMS  af pspnil.lic  nilSen i-
ins;.                                                                                               tinrear   rit=r  L.  -R.inlrii  ad  in yierct Sn  raiglennaltue   at isl
ri-f in fuathin - inrisita. uinai tntua.-ani  - a..i..istcbef if Ftnft             ne. c Itef-rt; 4.nc farri -n  en  my ct he mnparubie. emr. nt
nF ~telb-fif rut dnuten sudnr iPten   i  aenie  tiity PI-uI.,                              einrniblntedlrimig
peugri-.                                                    TV ienetairn (mr MMuuu5 inrulelIns) - IV rinnin-. r- fir, brnedneai I
fi l. .lmte-(e. I       re-ti  f.f carie.cii   -fneneif nirrLnd                                    tierni  miilnt   euSpiupn.n  enetden                     liiti  ITrV      etr
e if fib-Merts en. ItS-a. reirnf -5  ,ei hntiir'isitn d-iei R.n                is   -1iii i-  iid nu  ea .~       re,,t.-tuni,a ti T un cm           f en
-5nc   edtt.   if.... nilin.   redtimi   -nLnd. niaed and                                           ini-dett   if  napp.n.  an t Ln Fnir na.  am..t
feud ad  teR    nina   ic    im   C-nsILn   -ain  peteit  andn .4                                 en.-,  Ai.ll    Aneuepr              RiLt. -r Year - 11-ed - h   -baaatn  If
isrs.meIfaa   ,ne  ,,.hte   r I  ubta us -    isai  tar l           K,s                   nIkbin ai  d.itug  the Fe.-. t.la.dig  dMbleItin  Ii  rln-fe slteee   -
inFfei aSd  i     -eanldid)W  . ~gicnpi.eii   fec   mut  nnb l                                                  ii._t,
.Mi  -  ntltai  ne1     g  p-d-n   prine  -iSMc ; inthl-I,. tift. lind 1il
deLi,                                                                                           inan  ricer:I
lucl!ngy- iqleti   ufin  fndsigii  nfCfbe  neuenypet ipd  pr                     e_TFr6r Fin.                -i.inpnydbtennl E                fam117it.e   . nn.d-.c rn-1n nert
day.       I  Lntibu  alpie    apRln  dinasi  prdi inis.  nrt  ten                                peyntaiui- i  c.li ale.. IItIn-lliI  i nru h.--I-.           nitire -lig,
nipinc.endnianee  i n-nb.ti  --pet- pTd-n-e  timmcl!td.  ined..' care lir ill,    Pi   i                                      .11  ins .9. - - - cl             M
SqfIni i..  n               kiidb  fai. ban   noPII  phyiattna m.- d. tienin-tigtrLnit  terrei I                              abr Inn   ifian,F-ely~tnigi
irnintly ad  I..e".ib  nacdetgemrtcia   nennnr,bd  nli fdib...antrrnnnag                                                     b t ni et ta  fI.n   i-t,. tId   aS1 iable dne
ni ennbed   s.1   itl-IS. him rmb..d -9 dIi.F                                                          aid2 W;f   -IL. nten..i. ctran 1g a   pr.uns I eF nle-try  haicb t fne   ISle
iecrietlaenu   feiet           Iey     rfde)-  ene.tineli ba             n rapit.i                      Sitileud 1911  da-is,1.-   ..   .-f=              90   17  tl   M
C                      ml~~~~.  na.. dFfe    erdy  mmIn ciyt  if d 11Int deti r- F- i i.arrt Int- bin   tyrrnun  f- sll   ie    dtcl -                                              -     rnnlcnnc
..uI Ritinnl  Incal t' ssI-"uiiniine    y SApilnfi   li                                              rlnn    e        c  meupannA a-sii cal. Wen             cm id-tb.  fail  a90
utmit    f-insa pe i Inn.;Rrinartdya  t.  an-.d   snail a                                    perrtt,ipIea if- sia, cnln  Ited  final          . rr,st- if al tt  epeentnnty
asi "p"sas iEfr  numb -II. ic ts baVI''d be astil nrnnln.  Thi,                                    tile '. IT    a   ng  dal.   he    em1  Med "   f- OWe  pelnpflmt  fie
nadlerda ate  auersth. nb-u  if 75  ric  nf nanL p-iLIt. ad 23 gran                                 ref -tern tga n   nic-L-r  if the pa e              .. cd   nga lieu ItnS.  A
ifii i nn             -1aiiieet   I.r nin  arId. pripeied by FADt is nb.                      fee enieanaef-  niltiimies
Thirdluid fudin-u   it-t  1950 adW liii dat.-riil  Sninn   bit.-  bflt  if Pnem.lenii  cide  1I ad bt iA  enr 
P.r inn irenrnn.ts nuely  ft.  eIcn  lim  mci in -I. frni  npt IT F..er                      IC  lanai t.ea  Ftime.
dernd   t.catet.andpal. Ijfye-  pee day; luhI-O.It,  tf   -s  un7
nneurtc  den  dalis   ye  lfn   auc; iI"o. tug0 ad  ilot dan..Mittn
it SteIn; intO. 1910 iii met dale.                                        ~~~I-Itd ba interpreld  tib   -Iuede...ble  -enis.I
fsfein  inrtaltn nine   per nba Jaed ,- hia  deis.. h.If isainedr ci-FeLcd  ebanlultmc ?                            -intn-       ..   t Insper rerun    -aban s    ml rligi -
ic ,fgiPer.,   itlis    iit  ri,mi   smi   aa                                                 s -tne, putt 57 line  tene  Ri nine   ti-   ter  ii  lth    fael
Ann..iffaf  tnir (cnil,i e.ailt-i     5ni.  mma.  s-rnrl                    inn ininy aies  dies pi-i taneiitn.e-a   eeqiirei  lean
entr i  linr. asen. RLs,  Sret  niti, r                    Vnnabn    ia  in si.               :ifrrdubir,L
inn  api    'A.idu   ireilni  nartir  infnr  ar mtranid b.,                                leLai    eai.uiei   m.c   enI (USS pee natia) - -nbeiS  neatmm-
inninlasand  inet it.n  -  sba  fin  printied   iribele,pawin., aid                itita  te.tanin  p-rn.r    Ire  Le-n  ia n-nnn  iFeeig    i   pi
inelnny ucln) nnfitnelages  i heI  rinpnninep'pitln-ea.  ane                          priirc  if the  . nny   erbi. tesi W denied Fin  tba  -Ln
ntbe eye e        I..bi  feselt Ir nsirdyet  etaIm: -   can LbIllit eesta                            ana  .lnb adiminan  fir bidet, net iF ilnfng fit -h-   n
fai.   sena  ecee  rnacma .bleinen    udll  icyy  bm   -b be        nFi tit                    drnt t    -t fernsitL Aeynlan   t et (rM    eJ.nilI   ar-n
Isee  itnb  Seeinet  d  -            .in   In epeSd   dfaPraperttineneprs if                     Ir-
trare  - gaibar nf peap!ie Cfn IRSnn Ie,a   rrt  nena bM             atrn
prlniee is  cictia_r,-bnasatlenla,il.                         -I   t-Iy FTinS



- 22 -
AM=C I
Paip 4 of 5
EDI  DDIC1
GM  NATIA  PFM=  IN 1981/82                                 ARM  RA1o GOWM  (% contant ices)
US$ IDn.                            1981/82
GN4P at Market Pricss               734                                 -0.5
Gross Tketic Investment              so
Gross Natinal. Savi.    .
Orrent Accamt Balance              -145                                60.0
EIxport of Goods, NES               467                                 -2.7
lixorts of Goods, NFS               709                                  5.0
W MT,   IABR FORM AND           Valne Added             lAbor Foe 1/            V.A. Per Wocker
_FF___TV__ IN l9Bl/82         US$ Nln.    X              Mllu.    Z              US$   X of Ave.
Agriculture                    107      12.9            0.358   79.4              300     16.3
Industry                       283      34.0            0.031    6.1            9,129   494.8
Services                       441      53.1            0.063    14.5           7,000   379.4
Unallocated                     -         -                .
Total/Averaq                832     100.0            0.451   100.0           1,845    100.0
-           FINE                                         Gtral Govmst
(P.M M )              Z of  P
1981/82    1981/82     1979/80 - 1981/82
Qwrent leceipts                              281.2        32.9             33.0
Current Expenditures                         199.3        23.3             21.1
current Surplus                               81.9         9.6              7.6
Capital Expelditures                         1.391        16.3             16.7
External Assistance (net)                     49.4         5.8              6.4
MCEY, CREDIT and PRICES                        1979      1980      1981      1982
illion P OutstanrLrg End PerLod)
Ybmy and Quasi M!by                           167.7    230.2    211.9    237.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector 2/                 1.3       0.8       0.2       0.4
Bank Credit to Private Sectcr                  86.4      97.3    144.4    148.7
(Percentag  or Index Nunbes)
Mbney and Quasi MaWy as Z of GOP               33.3      33.4      D27.5    27.7
General Price Index (August 1980-100)          87.8    100.0       115.6   123.9
Anaual pueret    deWs in
Bark Creiit to Public Sector                  -31.6    -38.5       -75.0   100.0
Bark Credit to Private Sector                  16.2      12.6       48.4      3.0
1/ labor force is dsfined as persons of 14 years and mier engaged eitter in fadly agricdlture or in
cash employmmnt. Migrant worlmrs in South Africa are exluded.
2/ Excludes parastatals.
mt avaUlable                                                               EA
not appliabNe                                                             p     Lr 983



- 23 -
ANNK I
Page 5 of 5
RlF PA         AND CAPIrAL    S
BALNCE OF PMD5I                                                MMANISE EKEa  3
(~  1980-82)
1980    1981    1982                        US  fn.   %
Exports of Goads 1               545.9   392.9   436.3         Mat and neat roducts    72.4   15.2
aiports aE Goods 2               604.2   672.5   562.7         DiaM3ids                235.1   49.4
Palance of Trade (defict-)       -58.3  -279.6  -126.4         CkpperInice              84.3   17.7
An otin -lomvxdties      84.0   17.7
Nom-factor Senices (t)           -76.9   -77.3   -60.4           TotaL                 476.0  10o.0
Factor Services (net)            -72.0    20.6   -48.7
?=t Trasfs                        80.4   136.1   120.7
Bal    on Current Account       -126.8  -230.2  -114.8         E      l IT,  r 31, 1982
Direct Foreig  Investnea         125.4   109.7   12B.2
Net IIX LT1rg                     12.7    17.3    36.1         Pudic Debt,inl.         d    209.0
mDsaents                        18.4    24.0      ..         No-Garanteed Private Debt 
ArErrization                     5.7     6.7      ..         TotaL Orscanixg & Dislbrsed   209.0
capital t s                       47.6      ..
Otber CaitaL (net))                                            EEr SEIICE RAMO       1982 4
Otbr Item ne2  )-33J7    2.1                        5.6                                          %
Increase in Reserves  -)         -92.6   +71.1   -55.1
ublic Debt, inci. gzrante      2.9
Gross Reserves (end year)        328.8   2B0.7   307.2               1ranteed Private Debt       ..
M1taL 0tstamiig & Diswsid       2.9
Fu  aid Related Materials
Imports 3                      697.4   777.0   661.6
of ich: Petrolenm             90.9    99.5      ..         IRD/1A  MNr (March  983)
Ecports 3                      545.9   392.9   436.3
of ikiich: Petroleai           -                -fLLi US$)
1)mL
R    F     NE OF EIffANZ .5                                    Outstaxirg & D[slnred  91.0  14.2
1979  1980  1981  1982                     8hdisbu-sed             64.6
_   _tandLrg  el.
US$1.00 = P 1.06    0.813 0.775 0.848 0.028                     tkidishzrsed           155.6  14.2
P 1.00 = US$0.94    1.230 1.209 1.179 0.973
1 ReoDred acsto  statistics adjusted for timi  ard c'erge.
2 Peonled custo  statstis adjusted for valntion (eclusive of cidit,  iuranxe and freight) and
3   coejustae tade figures.
4 Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods aid Nor-factor Services.
5 Akaia averages.
N.t available
,No applicable
FAIDB
Mrch L983



BEST COPY AVAILIBLE                                  24
P  1 of 2
Sms aF 1B&1K Ge    1A ERA       IN KaNa
A. SEAMMI (IF BW InM AND 1Ik aRU)fl I/
Cps at Sq~eptemer 30, 1983J)
N&umber   Year    Barrom rXw                                       ____  IDLM  Uxtshun;ed
Sx 71   and six creIits fully didosed                             56.10  15.91
1408     1977    Bctsram        Fourth RoaI  Project              19.10            2.77
1497     1977    Botswaa        Seconi Livtock Prqjec              6.50            2.17
15K      1978  lbotsan          Second Urbea Project               8.00     7
1763     1979    Botswana       Secod Water Supply Proect          4.40            0.3
1828     1980    Bot2ana        S       Fdaat1m Project           10.00           8.08
1941     1981    Botwama          ifth Roa Project                17.00           7.81
2057     L9q8    BDotswana      llid Education                    2D.00            19.78
2209     1983    Bots1mo        Per Project                        32.50           32.50
2333     1983    Btswana        ixIird Water Suppy                 22.00           19.69
Total                                                       195.60  15.91   95.45
of dbi& hba bem repaid                                     20.29  0.61
Total no outstardirg                                        175.31  15.30
MountS sold                                          9.55
aE utdh bas bee repaid                             8.37    1.18    -
Total i  beld by Bm*/MkI 2                                  174.13 15.30
of i%ch is uzmibursed                                              0.00   95.45
1/ TIe status aE tie projects Uste in Part A is describe1 in a separate report  i all
F */iiA finanra projects in enmcion, .dc1& is updated tla  yearly axn  cLrcolated
to tie EncLzive Directors aL Apdl 30 and October 31.
21 Prior tD exwbage aljusiuents.



- 25 -
Pane 2 of 2
B. Sl;lM OF IEC KNgEDfIr
(as at Septmer 30, i983)
*               ?l~N     Yr  Bor                                            Lm      Bi        Tal
448-Hr    1979  Bon=za             emet Fimwe
cozporation                                  -      0.3     0.37
Tatat Gross lestjets                                     -      0.37   0.
Les cancellatatm, temdntis.
Tor.    bid. by I  1,                                           0.37   0.37
A ni imvest  iu DNC of WSM81,O00 us            inI  1N 983 bIt sigd  had ut
tien plaoe.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project    :   9 months
(b)   First presentation to Bank            May 1982
(c)  Appraisal mission departed             March 1983
Cd)  Appraisal mission return               April 1983
Ce)  Negotiations                           November 28, 1983
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness    :   May 7, 1984
(I. Special Bank/IDA Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Government to provide NDB with satisfactory capital
structure, and key NDB personnel to be employed
(paras. 43 and 54).
(b)   Other Special Conditions
(i) NDB to make staff appointments and assiga Batswana
undergraduates and counterparts (para. 54).
(ii)  NDB not to increase real growth of operations during
reorganization (para. 42).
(iii) BDC and NDB not to exceed 5:1 debt/equity ratio (paras.
38 and 43).
(iv)  Government to provide annual grants to NDB to cover costs
of micro credits and NDB to study ways of reducing these
costs (para. 44).



- 27 -
ANNE II
Page 2 of 2
(v) Bank to review interest rates with BDC and NDB annually
(para. 52).
(vi) Government and BDC/NDB to share foreign exchange risk
according to established formula (para. 53).
(vii) NDB agricultural and/or micro lending not to account for
more than $2.0 million of Bank line of credit and BDC not
to sub-lend for property (para. 58).
(viii) Special Account to be set up to hasten NDB disbursements
(para. 59).
(ix) BDC and NDB subloans above US$130,000 and US$100,000
respectively to have least 10 percent economic rate of
return (para. 58).






