Dcckimt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12572
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2384-BOT)
DECEMBER 1, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12572
Type: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a resicted dbtibuton and may be used by reipieot only in the performance of
dteir officll duties. Its contents way not otrwise be didosed without World Bank authonzation.



Currency Unit     *         Pula (P)
US$ 1.00                    P P 2.13
P 1.00                      U Us$ 0.47
ABBREIATIONS
BDC     -    Botswana Development Corporation
DFC          Development Finance Company
DPI    -   Development Finance Institution
FAP    -    Financial Assistance Policy
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GM      -    General Manager
GTS     -    (Deutsche) Gesellechaft fUr tehnische Susammenarbeit
(Gmbh)
IBRD   -    International Bank for Reconstruction and DeveLopment
IPC    -    International Finance Corporation
KfW     -   Ireditanstalt flr Wiederaufbau
mop    -   Ministry of Finance
ND8     -   National Development Bank
p.a.    -   per annum
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
PDSF    -    Public Debt Service Fund
PPAR    -    Project Performance Audit Report
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
8s5    -    Small-Scale Enterprise
TA      -    Technical Assistance



FOR OFICIUL USE ONLY
THE WOfRLD BANK
Wahlngtob D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Vireetor4eneral
Opiaton Evaluafion
December 1, 1993
hMQEMOAND-UM TO THE E:XEUTVE DIRECIrORS AND T-H PREDSIIEN
SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Botwana
Second Devehent rli;ance Com=naie ProZecttA 234-OTa
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Botan - Second Development Finance Companies
Project (Loan 2384-BOI) prepared by the Afica Regional Office. No commens were received from the
Borrower.
The objectives of the project were to Q) finance entrpries, especialy smaU scale, outside of the
mining sector, (ii) strengthen insdtutonal capabilities of one participating Development Finance Institution
(DFI), and (ii) enhance the Bank's dialogue with the Government on broader financial sector issues.
The first two objectives were not achieved. Less than one half of the lines of credit was used, and
the viability of micro projects financed by the loan is quesdonable. The technical assine  (TA) provided
by the Bank under the project was not well implemented. In addition to not addresing the TA needs of
the producdve sectors in Botswana, the project design was not tailored to the institutional development
reqiements of the participating DPIs.
Tne third objective was reached. During the project life, sector work was undertaken on finance
and industry, which resulted in reforms being implemented.
Overall, the project is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain and its insdtutional
development as negligible.
The rCR provides a frank and informative account of project outcomes and derives meaning
lessons of experience regarding project design.
The operation may be audited together with the previous DFC project in Botlwana.
Attachmentc
| his documwt has * cd  dnlutio  d may be uacd by reipieias ony axhe perfofmn  ofthdir official dutid.   co_e l
|my notdewe be discloed without Wadd Ban Auo



FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
SFCOND DEVELOPNENS FiNANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2384-SOT)
n2=    eoNnTO  REsPORT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
PREFACE    . . . .       . . . . . . . . . . .  .
EVALUATION SUNMARY                        . . . . .        .  ii-v
PART Is  PROJECT D  RE W FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTI    . . . . . .  1
Project Identity  .          . .....          .       .   1
Background         .      . .    .               .1. . .  I
Project Objectives and Description             .          2
Project Design and Organization        2.         . . . 
Project Implementation                       . ....  4
Project Results. .                                        6
Project Sustainability                   . . . . . . .10
Bank Performance             .      . . . . . .       .  11
Borrowers' Performance  . . . . . .                      12
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . .                  .13
Consulting Services . . . .            . . . .           13
Project Documentation and Data.. . . .  . 14
PART lII  PROJECT REVIEW FRO  BORROWERS' PERSPECTVE.                15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables:
1. Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16
2. Project TimetaLle . .             ..          ..... .   16
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Oisbureements . .  .  17
4. Project Costs and rinancing ... . . .  . 17
A.  Project costs..        .. ........... . .  .17
B.  Project Financing ............ . . .  .18
5.  Status of Loan Covenants. .            . . . . .  .   .19
6.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . .   .           .20
A. Staff Inputs .  . . .                .20
B. Missions.. . . . . . .  .   . 20
7. National Development Banks  . . .21
Financial Performance.. . . .  . 21
Income Statement  ............. .21
Balance Sheet .. . .                        . 22
Use of Ln. 2384 Funds . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 24
8. Botswana Development Bank:
Flnancial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 27
Income Statement  .       .    ..  .     .    .  .    27
Balance Sheet  . .28
Use of Ln. 2384 Funds.. . .  . 30
This document has a restdted distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the pedfonnanee 
of their oMcia duties& Its contents may not othewi be disebsed without Wodid Bank authodzation.|



SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANC$ COMPANIES PRoJECT (WIN 2384-3T,
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
,PRFAR
This is the Project Completion P.eport (PCR) for the Second
Development Finance Companies Project in Botswana, for which Loan
2394-ST in the amount of US$12.3 million was approved on Feb. 12. 1984.
The loan was closed on June 30. 1992, two years behind schedule.
The last disbursement was October 8. 1992 and US$6.4 million was
cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of
the Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III). No comments (Part II) were received from the Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision missions, and is based. inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- Li -
S8COND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIB8 PROATRCT lDAj 23§4-BT1
PRQJMC  CONPLET20N RPR
EVA W ATIN 8UMMURY
1.          Loan 2384-BOT, the Second Development Finance Companies
Project. was appraised in March 1983, signed ln May 1984 and became
effective in January 1985. The project closed in June 1992, after two
extensions of the closing date, and 52 percent of the UF$12.3 million
loan amount was canceled.
Obtectives
2.          According to the President's Report, the project was
expected: (i) to support the Government's priorities for creating
employment and diversifying the economy through the establishment of
productive enterprises outside the mining sector; (ii) to rationalize
and expand assistance to small farmersl and (iii) to enhance the Bank's
dialogue with Government on broader sectoral issues including interest
rates and financial sector coordination. The project comprised three
maLn componentss two lines of credit, to the Botswana Development
Corporation and to the National Development Bank, and technical
assistance to the National Development Bank.
ImDlementation Exoerignce
3.          The project was by and large unsuccessful in meeting the
development objectives; there was some progress in enhancing the Bank-
Government policy dialogue, although it must be questioned whether the
improved dialogue would not have occurred in the absence of this
project, and whether the improvement in dialogue justified the
substantial financial and human resources invested in this project over
its long life. The lines of credit were not committed and disbursed as
expected. In the case of BDC, financial resources on more favorable
terms were available. In the case of NDB, serious institutional
problems led to an informal suspension of new commitments within about
two and one half years of effectiveness, and a second and final informal
suspension of new commitments in 1990.
4.          There were several key problems that affected this project.
First and foremost, the design of the project by the Bank was poor:
it did not respond to the needs of the productive sectors in Botswana,
although these had emerged in previous Bank sector work, and it ignored
the lessons of previous Bank projects. The availability of credit was
clearly not the only or main constraint to enterprise development in
Botswana, but the primary thrust of Loan 2384 was to provlde credit
funds. The rationale behind the Government's interest in this project
was its desire for Bank technical assistance and advice. However, even



- iii -
in this respect, the impact of the project wan limited. The technical
assistance component of the project assisted only NDB, and the technical
assistance financed under the Bank project was of poor quality.
Concerning direct technical assistance and advice from the Bank, e.g.,
through supervision missions, while Government and beneficiaries spoke
positively ot the Bank's input, it is of interest that the Government
did not seek input from or consult the Bank on several important issues
that impacted the project. For example, in 1987/88, Government and ND8
surprised the Bank with the write-off of drought-related arrears at NDBs
once the Bank learned of this initiative, it expressed strong concerns
about the long-term effects of the write-off on borrowers' willingness
to repay.
5.          In addition to not addressing fully the needs of the sector,
the project design was not well tailored to the needs of the two
implementing DFls. 8DC had limited need for IBRD fundsl however,
previous project work had indicated the advisability of institutional
strengthening, which was not included not in the project. Another set
of important problems that impeded this project concerned the weaknesses
of the National Development Bank, which turned out to be much more
serious than assessed at appraical and discussed in the appraisal
documentation. A consultant s evaluation done as an input to appraisal
sounded several alarms concerning NDB systems and the quality of the
portfolio. However, the Bank underestimated the extent of these
problems and overestimated the ability of a limited technical assistance
component to overcome them. Accordingly, the weaknesses at NDB were not
addressed adequately in the project design. During implementation, NDB
systems, which were recognized to be inadequate at appraisal, broke down
completely, and it became and remains impossible to get timely and
accurate information. In addition, it became apparent that the Board
and NDB management was st ject to political pressures. Many
inappropriate loans were made, and enforcement of the loan agreements
was frequently impossible.
6.          About 18 months before the loan closed, the Government began
to act with vigor on the problems of NDB. The pullout of German
assistance and growing concerns by Government about the macroeconomic
situation forced Government to take the problems of NDB seriously. A
changeover in key senior officials at Ministry of Finance gave added
attention to NDB. New management and Board members were brought in.
Government reduced its financial support for NDB to signal its concern
about the use of these funds. A major collections drive has been
undertaken, and Government has sent clear signals that no one will be
protected from collections.
7.          In September 1992, the Government brought a team of
consultants into NDB to propose a restructuring plan. This plan, the
outlines of which were made known to the PCR mission, appears to be
based on a sound understanding of the institution and the environment in
which it operates. The plan proposes drastic downsizing of NDB and re-
orientation of operations to areas that are likely to be more
profitable, with the intention that NDB will emerge a sounded financial
institution, with a commercial orientation. At the time of the PCR



- iv -
mission in April 1993, the plan had won the support of Cabinet, and was
expected to ba Implemented within six to 12 months.
Besults
8.          The project's contribution to creating and diversifying
employment, and to rationalizing support for small-scale farmers was at
the best, small. Less than one half of the lines of credit was usedl in
the case of NDB. the viability of the subprojects financed with Loan
2384 funds, particularly the micro-loans, is questionable. BDC
subloans, although very few, were more successful. The project
undoubtedly did stimulate the dialogue between the Bank and Government
on sectoral issues; during the project life, sector work was undertaken
on the finance and industry sectors, which resulted in important reforms
being implemented.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
9.          The first and most important lesson is that Droiect desian
must be based on a sound understanding of the sector and sectoral
constraints. Older DFI projects have tended to try to develop the
private sector through the provision of credit, without adequate
attention to other constraints. Loan 2384 was no exception. Although
previous sector and project work had clearly indicated that credit was
not the constraining factor to the development of businesses in
Botswana, the thrust of Loan 2384 was a line of credit. The second most
important lesson then becomes: Incoroorate the lessons learned from
orevious Bank work. In the case of Loan 2384, this work includes both
Bank and IPC project experience with the financial institutions
involved, sector work, and consultant evaluations.
10.         If the above is not heeded, the resulting.  oorlv desianed
oroiect has little chance of meetina the development obiectiveg. At the
worst. it may do more harm than good. That credit was not the primary
constraint to enterprise development in Botswana, and that NDB was in
poor shape, was obvious before the time of appraisal. By providing a
line of credit, without adequate strengthening of systems, the Bank may
have assisted In the deepening of NDB's financial problems. On the
Bank's side, scarce human and financial resources were tied up in the
frustrating process of trying to implement a poor project..
11.         Credit cannot be effectively channeled throuah weak
financial institutions. If the provision of credit is identified as a
key constraint, project design needs to examine carefully the reasons
for poor access to credit. While there is likely to be a shortage of
funds, it is as necessary to evaluate whether the institution is capable
of making good loans and collecting on them; little long-term good is
achieved if the credit goes to non-viable projects, and cannot be
collected and re-lent.
12.         Therefore, institutional strenothenina is critical to the
success of financial intermediary projects. However. Poor consultant
services have the potential to do more harm than good. Five long-term



expatriates were financed under the loan to assist NDS. With perhaps
one exception, these advisors made little positive impact on NDS, and
may, in fact, have had a negative impact.
13.         This project poses questions about what to do with a poorly
designed project. Once a noorly desioned oroiect is under
imolementation. It can be difficult to redesian. and difficult to
cancel. Government was loathe to use I8RD funds to finance the
technical assistance that the Bank felt was necessary to reorient NDB.
Bank management and staff were also reluctant to cecommend canceling the
project, even when it was clear that ND8 should not, and that BDC would
not use the funds.



BOIMAM
SECON DEYEDLOMEN FI1NANCE CO-AMP PR-O.CT
(LOAN 2384-BOT)
RQoJEer COMELKUIION
PacrtI ProJect Review from the Bank's Perspective
1.    E     Pdnti
Name                : Second Development Finance Companies Project
Loan number         : 2384-BOT
RVP unit            : Africa Region
Country             : Botswana
Sector              : Financial Intermediation
2.    Bac&dMnd
2. 1         In the eight-year period preceding this project, real growth of the economy of
Botswana averaged more than 10 percent p.a. However, this growth was due almost entirely
to growth in the mining sector, and had litte impact on employment and income distribution.
The Government, notably under the Fifth National Development Plan (1979/80 to 1984185)
and the 1982 Presidential Commission on Economic Opporunities, recognized the need to
improve employment creation outside the mining and service sectors, and specifically, in
manufacturing and agriculture. To achieve this diversification, the Government pursued a
liberal policy toward both foreign and domestic investment, through the provision of
investment incentives and liberal exchange controls. Two important aspects of this strategy
for investment promotion were the creation of the Financial Assistance Policy scheme in
1982, which provided a package of investment incentives, and the establishment of the Trade
and Investment Promotion Agency in 1984 as a one-stop center for investors.
2.2          The Government also continued and increased support for institutions to assist
investors and enrepreneurs. The two primary institutions providing long-term financial
assistance to businesses were and remain the Botswana Development Corporation (BDC) and
the National Development Bank (NDB). BDC was established in 1970, and at the time of
project design, had received support from both the Bank and IFC. It was expected that
BDC's role in the development of the economy would be to promote medium and large-scale
projects, and to attract foreign investment in various sectors that 'were beyond the capability
of local entrepreneurs". NDB, which was created in 1963, had also received Bank support
prior to Loan 2384, albeit on a smaller scale than BDC. 'he role of NDB in the economy
was expected to complement BDC by providing financial assistance to small-scale Batswana
farmers and entrepreneurs in commercial and industrial sectors. NDB also was responsible
for the administration of the PAP program.
2.3          World Bank strategy for Botswana supported the Government's objectives of
diversifying the economic base and increasing employment opportunities. The Government
did not need financial assistance from the Bank; at the time of project design, it was expected



- 2 -
that the recurrent budget surpluses would finance planned expenditure programs. However,
Government wanted continued access to Bank technical assistance and advice.
2.4          Several Bank activities attempted to assist the Government improve
employment creation and Income distribution. The July 1982 "Economic Memorandum on
Botswana" discussed the need to augment and improve the current support services for smai!-
scale enterprises. 'Botswana - The Manufacturing Sector" (February 1984) cited periodic
droughts, a small domestic market, an expensive, inadequately skilled and inefficient labor
force, and lack of industrial sites as the main constraints to industrial development. Previous
project work relevant to Loan 2384 included a line of credit to BDC and support to NDB ,o
increase agricultural lending. Loan 1019-BT, a US$4 million line of credit to BDC, became
effective in December 1974 and closed May 1981. The PCR for Loan 1019 (March 1983)
indicated that achievement of project objectives was mixed, and considerably slower than
expected (the closing date was extended three and one half years) The PCR noted that use of
the loan had been impacted by the availability of cheaper resources to BDC. Loan 1497-BT
(effective November 1978 and closed June 1984) expanded agriculture credit facilities at NDB
through the creation of an agriculture credit division and provision of a line of credit. The
PCR and PPAR for Ln. 1497-BT (June 1986) indicated that the operation had been
successful, as NDB's lending to agriculture had expanded from P2.8 million in 1979 to P19
million in 1983. Overlapping and relevant project work included: Loan 2566-BT (effective
April 1986 and expected to close March 1993), which continued the development of
agriculture credit within NDB; and, Loan 2695, Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance,
(effective July 1987 and expected to close December 1993), which supported the economic
diversification of the town of Selebi-Phikwe and environs.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1          According to the President's Report, the project was expected: (i) to support
the Government's priorities for creating employment and diversifying the economy through
the establishment of productive enterprises outside the mining sector; (ii) to rationaiize and
expand assistance to small farmers; and (iii) to enhance the Bank's dialogue with Government
on broader sectoral issues including interest rates and financial sector coordination. The
three components of the project included two lines of credit for subprojects in the productive
sectors, one to BDC and one to NDB, and a program of technical assistance for NDB to
enable it to become more involved in the development of small and medium-scale enterprises.
During the design stage, it was expected that the BDC line of credit would help finance about
18 percent of a $30 million investment program during FY84 through FY86. The NDB line
of credit was expected to help finance about 11 percent of the FY84-86 investment program.
4.    Prolect Design and Or=anization
4.1          The project was a follow-on project to previous lending to BDC and to NDB,
albeit under different projects and handled by different divisions. IBRD funds were
borrowed by Government, at a variable interest rate and fixed amortization schedule for
15 years, including three years' grace, standard front-end fee and commitment charges.
Government agreed to on-lend US$5.0 million to NDB at the rate of interest set by
Government on loans from its Public Debt Service Fund (at the time 10 percent). Funds
for institution-building (US$0.9 million) were passed on to NDB as a grant. Government
agreed to on-lend US$6.0 million to BDC on a variable rate corresponding to the rate paid



- 3 -
by Government to the Bank For both NDB and BDC, Government accepted the bmnt of the
foreign exchange risk (91.97 percent, with 8.25 percent borne by the DFI). Implementation
was the responsibility of the two DFIs, with MOF largely in an overseeing role.
4.2          The broad conceptual framework for the project was appropriate to the Bank's
approach to financial sector assistance at the time. However, DFC HI was designed during a
period when the Bank took a different approach to financial intermediary support that was
institutionally specific and focused. The project did not attempt to address issues outside the
direct influence of the DFIs (e.g., financial, industrial or SSE sector policies and regulations).
Fortunately, Government policies were not a serious problem, even in retrospect.
4.3          However, the design of the project did not adequately respond to the needs of
development finance in Botswana, and to the needs, strengths and weaknesses of the two
institutions involved. The project design was not based on a critical evaluation of the
constraints to the development of enterprises in Botswana and, in fact, seemingly ignored the
lessons of related Bank sector and project work (see para 1.3). The design assumed that
credit was a major constraint; however, for at least one of the institutions, BDC, Bank
experience indicated that availability of financial resources was not the critical constraint and
in addition, that BDC considered IBRD resources to be too expensive. In contrast, however,
concerns about the quality of BDC procedures and BDC staff that had come out in previous
project work were not addressed in the project design.
4.4          The project's design in regard to NDB is r      problematic. A 1983
evaluation of NDB done by a consultant as an input to the _ fisal mission,raised very
serious issues about the adequacy of NDB's procedures, the L  : of its portfolio, and the
capability of its staff: 'There is no follow-up system at NDB, neither for projects under
implementation, nor for projects in operation.... The fact is that NDB does not know today
what has happened to its loans...'. These very real concerns about NDB were not adequately
addressed in the design of the projectl/. It is worthwhile to focus on the issue of portfolio
quality as an example. The consultant found that there was no reliable monitoring of arrears
by NDB and surveyed 139 loans to test arrears. An alarming 65 percent of that sample was
affected by arrears. In contrast, the SAR did not highlight the quality of the portfolio as a
major issue, reporting that the arrears-affected portfolio accounted for 21 percent of the total
outstanding portfolio, and so did not include a specific program or measures to improve
collections and tighten appraisal and supervision procedures. The reality of the arrears
situation was closer to the 1983 consultant's report, and by July 1986, a supervision mission
was describing the arrears situation as "intractable". In retrospect, a Bank project that
provided technical assistance and training aimed at the institutional strengthening of both
institutions (assuming that the quality of such a component could be assured - see Section
11), with only minimal provision of credit funds, might have better addressed the weaknesses
of the institutions. By providing a line of credit, without adequate strengthening of systems,
the Bank may have assisted in the deepening of NDB's financial problems.
L/Nor were these concerns addressed in subsequent project work or in the 1986 PCR for Ln.
1497, which found the Bank's support for agriculture lending in NDB to be a success,
neglecting to examine and discuss the very poor repayment experience.



-4-
5.    Project Implementation
5.1            enera. Implementation of this project was recognized to be unsatisfactory
throughout the proje-. life. The first Form 590 was prepared in June 1985, at which time the
project was rated "2". All subsequent 590s, with two exceptions, rated the project "3" (in
May 1988, the project was rated "2" and In June 1990, the project was briefly rated "4").
However, virtually all supervision missions made a distinction between the performance and
condition of BDC, which was usually characterized as problem-free, and NDB. The closing
date was extended from June 30, 1990 to June 30, 1992; even with these extensions, 52
percent of the loan was unused and cancelled.
5.2          Implementation of the NDB Components. Two components supported the
development of NDB, a line of credit and technical assistance and training. About half of the
line of credit was cancelled; the technical assistance was fully used. The results and impact of
the subprojects financed under the line of credit are discussed in the next section. The
institution building component provided funding for several expatriate advisors, discussed in
the section on consulting services, and graduate training for three NDB staff.
5.3          In the first year or so of the loan, use of the line of credit was slow by both
NDB and BDC due largely to the availability of other sources of finance that were cheaper
and easier to use. NDB's interest in using the funds increased, but subsequently, however,
concerns on the Bank's part about NDB's ability to lend these funds responsibly (i.e., lending
for good projects, collecting, and re-lending the funds) caused a slow-down and eventual
halting of commitments.
5.4          There were several reasons for the Bank's concerns, which were shared by the
other donors involved in NDB (the African Development Bank and GTZlKfW), and by
several members of Government. Arrears were increasing, and the Finance Department could
not give an accurate picture of either the extent of arrears or, more broadly, the financial
condition of NDB. The external auditors issued a disclaimer on the annual accounts for the
year ended March 1989, citing their inability to audit the accounts, and all subsequent audits
have resulted in either disclaimers or strong qualifications bordering on disclaimers.
Problems also emerged regarding the staff situation; NDB employees went on strike twice, in
1988 and in 1990, over concerns about the management of NDB.
5.5          The early Bank mio ions focused largely on problem identification and
quantification, and solution generation. After the September 1987 supervision mission, which
cited the "intractable" arrears situation, the blurring of the development and finance roles, and
poor procedures concerning all aspects of NDB operations, Government agreed to form a task
force with the Bank to look at NDB. To assist in this effort, the Bank fielded a consultant for
three weeks. By mid-1988, there was no improvement in operations, and a drought had badly
impacted the agriculture portfolio. Government underwrote a large-scale writoff of
agricultural loans, which did not have the support of the Bank because of concerns about the
effects on borrower discipline. NDB and Government agreed to slow down the utilization of
the line of credit. Citing weak management, the mission urged the hiring of an experienced
deputy general manager.
5.6          As the performance of NDB continued to be bad, the tone of subsequent
missions became tougher. The lack of progress, due in part to slowness on Government's



- 5 -
part to recognize the seriousness of the problems, and the continuing inability to get any
reliable information that would shed light on the status of NDB, clearly frustrated missions
from 1989 on. There were some signs of positive actions by Government and NDB during
this period, but the follow-up was usually not good. The hiring of a new general manager in
December 1989 provided some hope; however, the Board did not support the new GM on a
number of key issues, which was damaging to the GM's effectiveness and relationship with
staff in the immediate term. On the Government's request, the Bank prepared a position
paper on the future orientation of NDB, and fielded a consultant to review it with Government
and NDB, but there appeared to be little outcome. NDB finally fired the finance manager,
who was largely responsible for the disarray of the NDB books, and then was forced to go
more than a year without a finance manager because Government could not find a citizen for
the post, and was unwilling to pay the salary required to hire the expatriate that NDB had
identified, or to borrow from Ln. 2384 for this purpose. By July 1991, the Bank and
Government agreed jointly, with NDB management approval, that NDB would not use the
line of credit any more until adequate financial systems were in place.
5.7          Delays on the part of Government and NDB in addressing the problems at
NDB were mainly due to the highly politicized environment surrounding NDB operations.
The Board, prior to late 1990, was largely composed of Government officials who appeared
to perceive NDB more as a developmental institution making grants or at best, very soft
loans, to citizens/constituents, than as a financial institution whose sustainability depended on
making and collecting loans for viable economic projects. The Board that was put into place
in late 1990/1991 is more commercially oriented, and has strongly emphasized collections,
even when not politically expedient. Government's slowness to tackle NDB was probably
also due to the healthy economy, which in contrast to the rest of Africa, is characterized by
large reserves; the losses from NDB did not become significant to Government until late in
the project life. Delays may also have resulted from the consultative approach to decision-
making process that characterizes Botswana.
5.8          Two events finally appeared to shake Government into action. In 1991, after
10 years of assistance, the Germans cut off GTZ and KfW assistance. A strongly worded
review of operations, done in 1990, cited the negative impact on NDB of unclear roles of
Government viz. NDB, lack of commercial orientation, and absence of adequate monitoring
of NDB activities. The review confirmed that the KfW line of credit would be cut off, and
possibly GtZ technical assistance unless NDB were restructured. GtZ pulled out relatively
soon thereafter. The second event was the growing concern on the part of Government at a
likely diminishment of revenues, and the need for more prudent management of the economy.
For the first time in several years, the country is expected to run a small deficit in 1992/3,
which is expected to increase in FY93/4 to over five percent of GDP.
5.9          From 1991 on, the Govermment took the problems of NDB more seriously.
The Govemment stopped all PDSF loans to NDB, which in the past had financed NDB's
rapid expansion of lending. On their own initiative, Government and NDB brought in
consultants in 1991 to take stock of NDB. A joint Bank of Botswana/Ministry of Finance
task force was formed to consider the structure of DFIs in Botswana, and the situation
and possible role of NDB. On Government's request, the Bank provided ad hoc technical
assistance to this work through a November 1992 mission. An assistant general manager
for finance joined in mid-1992, and has initiated several changes. He has strengthened



-6-
the Finance Department through recruitment, largely of non-Batswana, and has thoroughly
reviewed the accounts (including those previously audited) and accounting procedures.
S.10         Government began to take concrete, actionable steps In mid to late 1992. The
new Minister of Finance (also the Vice-President) made clear in the 1993 Budget Speecb
Government's concerns and intentions:
"We must begin..to address national development as a matter
of mutual social responsibility.. .I detect a growing tendency
among our people to turn to Government too often for
solutions to problems, for answers to questions, for money to
finance perceived needs.. .the principle of social responsibility
applies equally to our entrepreneurs, our industrialists and
farmers.. .We cannot accept the premise that when you make
profits they are yours, but when you make losses, Government
should bail you out."
5.11         Government's commitment has been clearly demonstrated in the swiftness with
which they have acted concerning the restructuring of NDB. A team of consultants has been
in place at NDB since September 1992, and will stay for another one and one half years.
Tleir terms of reference are to restructure NDB into a sustainable financial institution. In
February 1993, they issued a draft report on the recommended path for NDB, which was
finalized in March 1993 and passed Government in the form of a Cabinet Memorandum. The
consultants' key recommendations are: (i) that NDB reduce its involvement in agriculture and
in short-term loans, and concentrate on non-agnrculre sectors and longer term finance;
(-i) that staff at NDB be curtailed by about 50 percent; (iii) that the number of branches be
reduced from five to two or three; and (iv) that a new management team be brought in. It is
expected that the restructuring will be effected by end 1993 (the upcoming elections in
September 1994 are an added incentive to move swiftly).
5.12         Implementation of the Bank technical assistance to NDB was mixed. While
the employment of consultants went smoothly, and many had long tenures at NDB, the results
were very disappointing (see Section 11 for discussion of consulting services). The project
also atempted to strengthen NDB staff by financing training programs. Three NDB staff
were approved for degree programs in accounting, and agricultural economics; one was
approved for a three-month course in agricultural project planning. All returned to NDB, and
worked for the obligatory periods; one remains at NDB.
5.13         Implementation of the BDC component. The BDC component experienced no
major problems, apart from BDC's lack of interest in the line of credit due primarily to the
availability of cheaper resources. BDC management was stable and of high quality
throughout the project (albeit composed largely of expatriates). In general, BDC has pursued
prudent operational policies, and has taken advantage of the investment oppor:ties in the
expanding Botswana economy.
6.    Proect Results
6.1          The project objectives were: (i) to support employment creation and
diversification; (i) to rationalize and expand assistance to small farmers; and (iii) to enhance



-7 -
the Bank's dialogue with Government on broader sectoral issues including interest rates and
financial sector coordination. In actuality, the project contributed little to the creation of
employment and diversification of the economy away from mining. The investments made
were too few and too small, and in the case of NDB, too dubious, to have made any
measurable impact on the economy. There appears to have been some expansion of credit to
small-scale farmers; however, this support must be viewed with caution, as inadequate
information systems prevent an accurate picture of the increase in and, more important, the
quality of the increase. There is reason to believe that the level of default on these loans has
been extremely high. In the area of dialogue, Loan 2384 made a significant contribution by
laying the foundation for the 1989 financial sector report, and the 1992 DFI technical
assistance. Results are discussed in more detail below.
6.2          NDB Subloans. It is not possible to compare the actual use of loan funds to
the expected use, as no projections were made at appraisal. Of the US$5.0 million line of
credit, NDB committed US$2,063,444, and disbursed US$1,855,175.45 for 51 subloans. The
following table summarizes NDB subloans financed under Ln. 2384:
sector                  Number  Disbursed
Agriculture               31    US$ 182,977
of which micro2/         30    US$ 161,537
Non-Agriculture            20    US$1,672,199
of which micro            7    US$  11.480
Total                    51    US$1,855,176
Although by number, agriculture loans accounted for about 61 percent of the loans
financed under Ln. 2384, by volume, they accounted for only about 10 percent of IBRD
disbursements.
6.3          The following table presents approvals by year. By number, over half of
commitments took place in the first year of the project. These were largely agricultural micro-
loans. By volume, however, over half of commitments took place in 1990, and were mainly
for large, non-agricultural projects. The pattern of commitmnents reflects the Bank's concern
with the quality of the portfolio, in particular for very small loans and loans for agriculture.
As discussed in the preceding section, there were two informal suspensions of commitments,
in 1988/90, which was lifted after the new GM came in, and in 1991, which remained in
2/Disbursements for microloans have been extrapolated from approvals, as disbursements
were not recorded per microloan.



- 8 -
effect until the project closed. The single project approved after 1990 was to permit the
clearing of the special account.
_  Year                Nu-mbe   Commid
1986                     32    US$ 205,935
1987                      3    US$ 158,209
1988                      5    US$ 292,150
1989                      1    US$  10,000
1990                      9    US$1,200,150
1991                      0        0
1992                      1    US$ 197LQQ
Total                    51    US$2,063,444
6.4          In view of concerns about NDB's ability to lend Ln. 2384 money
appropriately, Government and the Bank agreed to slow, and finally stop, new commitments.
However, the Government was not interested in using additional loan proceeds to support
technical assistance to improve NDB.
6.5          'he Bank reviewed all NDB subprojects submitted for financing under Loan
2384. In general, the NDB appraisals were quite extensive, and fairly well-prepared. The
Bank's comments and questions focused largely on financial issues. How effective the Bank
advice was in improving the appraisal capabilities of NDB must be viewed in the light of the
number of projects prepared by non-Batswana. Of the 32 subprojects for which information
was available, 14 had been prepared by expatriates (e.g., Peace Corps volunteers, Bank-
fnded advisor). Seven of the 11 larger loans were appraised by expatriates. In view of
these numbers, the Bank's advice may have served to strengthen non-Batswana skldls more
than Batswana.
6.6          The above notwithstanding, a significant number of NDB submissions (about
50 percent of the total number of submissions) were rejected, withdrawn after the Bank
signaled that the subprojects were not attractive, or returned by the Bank after the informal
suspension of commitments. Approximately 43 subprojects, at a loan value of P10.9 million
(approximately US$6.1 million) were not financed. About one-half of these projects were
submitted to the Bank and returned after Government and the Bank had agreed that no further
commitments would be made. About one quarter were rejected for financial reasons (argely
profitability); several agriculture projects in Pandematenga were rejected because of land
issues.
6.7          Status of Ln. 2384 Subproject. No information was available or received
from NDB on the status or success of the NDB subprojects financed under Ln. 2384. Given
the disarray of NDB computer systems, it is unlikely that such information exists on the 37
microloans financed under the loan. However, general portfolio information supplied by
NDB indicates that for the 15 larger subprojects financed under the loan, five had arrears
greater than 10 percent of the original amount approved; six appeared to be free of arrears,
and/or paid off; the remaining four had smaller levels of arrears.



-9-
6.8          NDB's Financial and Operating Results. Apart from its involvement in the
project, NDB's performance during the project period was very poor. It is difficult to
quantify this poor performance, as the financial information is very poor; for example, NDB
is unable to report current maturities of its loan portfolio or the current maturities of its long-
term debt in financial statements for FY90, FY91 and FY92. However, a few points are
clear. NDB expanded rapidly during the project period, growing from total assets of P32.6
million in FY83 to P93.7 million in FY92. This growth far exceeded the capability of NDB
to manage it; at several times during the project life, missions warned NDB to slow growth.
The gross loan portfolio grew a little faster than total assets, from P24.4 million in FY83 to
P84.6 million in FY92. However, the portfolio is being shrunk: on Government's and
Board's decision, there has been virtually no new lending since mid-1992. Sixty-nine percent
of the gross portfolio in number and 59 percent in value are for agriculture. Small loans
(under P100,000) dominate the portfolio in number (81 percent), although not in value (34
percent). This discussion of the portfolio does not include the Small Borrowers Fund; this
fund, which comprises loans under P20,000, has been managed by NDB for a number of
years, but has not been counted as part of the NDB portfolio since FY87. Accurate
information on this portfolio is not available.
6.9          On the income statement side, NDB ran a loss in 11 out of 14 years, and by
FY92, the accumulated deficit totaled P36.6 million, compared to about P28.5 million in
unrecallable capital and reserves. Accordingly, NDB, as of end FY92, had negative net
worth of about P6 million, which is expected to almost triple by end FY93. Interest from
loans as a percent of total income dropped from FY89 on, due in part to the separation of the
SBF portfolio and the subsequent reporting of income from SBF activities as administration
fees. If SBF income is added to interest from loans, there has been no significant decline in
income from lending activities. However, this begs the issue of quality of income: it is not
clear how much of this income was received rather than accrued. Administrative expenses
have shot up over the years, due primarily to increases in staff expenses: the latter increased
from 22 percent of expenses in FY84 to a high of 46 percent FY91, and down to 37 percent
in FY92. NDB's .ractices regarding provisions require special mention. NDB has not had a
specific policy regarding provisions, with the level of provisions at the discretion of
management and the Board. Due largely to the efforts of the new Assistant General Manager
- Finance, management increased cumulative provisions in FY93 by about 280 percent, from
Pl1.2 million to P42.3 million. This amount provides for about half the gross portfolio.
6.10         BDC Invstents. Use of Ln. 2384 by BDC was a disappointment, although
overall, BDC's level of investment and lending increased beyond appraisal estimates. All of
the US$6.0 million line of credit was committed, but only US$2.9 million disbursed (48
percent of the line of credit). During the PCR mission, BDC informed the mission that early
in implementation, it had raised the possibility of cancelling the line of credit. Twelve
subprojects were submitted to the Bank; ten subprojects were approved, one (a silk project)
was rejected, and one was withdrawn. Of the 10 approvals, allocations for four subprojects
were cancelled; two because the promoter withdrew the project, and two because BDC
appeared to have forgotten that they had been approved for financing under Ln. 2384. Of the
six subprojects financed, one was for industrial sites, and five for manufactring. No
companies receiving Ln. 2384 funds could be classified as small-scale.



- 10-
6.11         Status of Ln. 2384 subrojects. Of the six projects financed under the line of
credit, two are no longer in business, and the other four range from quite profitable to
breakeven. Projects were evenly split between citizen and non-citizen owned.
6.12         BDC Financial and Operating Results. BDC's overall performance during the
project was good and exceeded SAR expectations. Assets have grown about 27 percent p.a.
since FY79. The equity and loan portfolios have accounted for between 81 and 92 percent of
total assets in the last five years. Ite equity portfolio has grown considerably in importance;
in FY79, equity accounted for 22 percent of the gross portfolio compared to 44 percent in
FY92 (down from over 60 percent in FY85 through FY88). The spurt in equity investments
in the middle years was not foreseen in the SAR, which projected a more moderate increase.
On the income statement side, BDC has shown a profit every year except FY85. Overall,
profits have increased about 19 p.a. percent since 1978, although in recent years, there has
been significant variability in size of profit, due to increases in provisioning, and write-off&.
Concerning provisions, BDC made very small provisions until FY87, when scrutiny of the
portfolio intensified: cumulative provisions as a percentage of the gross portfolio reached a
low of four percent in FY86, and has re-climbed steadily since then to 11 percent in FY92.
The composition of revenues has changed since FY79, and differs from expectations at
appraisal. Reflecting the increasing importance of equity investments to the BDC portfolio,
the share of revenue attributable to equity has increased from 28 percent in FY79 to 48
percent in PY92. Administrative expenses as a percentage of total expenses have been a
relatively steady percentage, and did not drop as expected at appraisal. Because of an
expected increase in provisions, BDC expects to make a small loss in FY93; however, FY94
is expected to be profitable.
6.13         In both the NDB and the BDC lines of credit, it was up to the individual
project officer to decide whether to access Ln. 2384 funds; several officers admitted that Bank
reporting requirements made the process unattractive. In the last year or two of the project,
the investment environment in Botswana was less lively, and finding attractive investments
became a problem for BDC. The cost of IBRD funds was also a great disincentive to their
use by BDC, and NDB in the early years.
6.14         Sectoral Dialogu. There has been significant progress on the third objective
of the project, the enhancement of the Bank's dialogue with Government on broader industrial
and financial sector issues. In 1989, the Bank and Government collaborated on a review of
the finmcial sector, which was highly praised by Government for the degree of collaboration,
and which set out the course for changes in the financial sector that have been implemented or
are under implementation in Botswana. More recently, as a result of Government and Bank
discussions during the supervision of Ln. 2384, the Bank provided ad hoc technical assistance
regarding the rationalization of the DFI structure. Finally, the Bank has just completed a
review of the industrial sector that has been modelled after the financial sector review.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          The project was not successful in building a sustainable financing mechanism.
In the case of BDC, which appears to be a sound financial institution, the impact of the
project was quite small, as BDC had plentiful resources on more atractive terms. In the case
of NDB, the extremely poor condition of the institution, the lack of systems adequate to
ensure the proper use of IBRD funds, and the slowness in re-orienting NDB meant at IBRD



- 11 -
funds were not used as intended. However, the sectoral initiatives that grew out of the
project - the reviews of the financial and industrial sectors, and assistance concerning DFIs -
have had a major impact on the development of the fnancial system in Botswana and on the
strategy and incentive framework for industrial growth.
8.    Bank E&rmance
8.1          The Bank's performance in regard to Loan 2384 must be evaluated at the
design stage, and then separately at the implementation stage. Bank performance in regard to
the design of Loan 2384 was clearly unsatisfactory. The project design did not address the
real, underlying constraints to enterprise development in Botswana, which had come out in
previous project and sector work; nor did it give adequate and/or appropriate emphasis in the
design to the issues highlighted in the consultant's evaluation of NDB.
8.2         It must be asked why, if the design was so poor, the project was not re-
designed. However, it is only recently in the Bank that re-design of projects has been an
acceptable option. The above notwithstanding, the Bank did propose to Government on at
least two occasions that the NDB components could be expanded/re-oriented to enable
increased support for the strengthening of NDB (i.e., to pay for a finance manager in
1989/90, and to finance a consultant "work-out" team in 1990/1). However, Government was
reluctant to use IBRD funds to finance technical assistance.
8.3          Accordingly, Bank performance during implementation must be reviewed in
the light of trying to implement a poorly designed project. In the first years of
implementation, the Bank took a proactive and intensive approach to supervision, in the form
of analysis of problems, recommendations for possible actions, and the commitment of
additional resources (e.g., consultants). The lack of action and response from Government
and NDB clearly frustrated missions later in the project life; frequency of missions dropped,
and the tone of communications became somewhat terser.
8.4         In retrospect, Bank staff and management involved in Loan 2384 may be
faulted for not taking a tougher approach to the supervision of Ln. 2384, perhaps even closing
the project earlier. As noted above, the pullout of the German assistance, after 10 years of
involvement in NDB, had a strong impact on Government and NDB. On the other hand, the
Bank's continued involvement in the project kept the Bank involved in policy dialogue as
related to finance and industry. It should also be noted that the Government was not keen to
cancel the loan, since it valued Bank involvement in trying to address the problems at NDB.
While some good came out of the Bank's staying involved in the project, in regard to the
sectoral dialogue, it must be questioned whether this intensified dialogue would not have taken
place anyway, as a result of other activities in Botswana.
8.5         In terms of project design, it is clear that the Bank appraisal team did not
adequately learn from previous Bank experience. An interesting issue is whether subsequent
interventions learned from Loan 2384. At the time of the appraisal of the Third Livestock
Project (Loan 2566), the problems of NDB were recognized, but it was believed that the
strengthened program provided under Ln 2384 would sufficiently strengthen NDB to enable it
to responsibly channel about US$5.9 million in agriculture credit.



- 12 -
9.    Borrowers' Performance
9.1          The main parties involved in the implementation of Ln. 2384 included the
Ministry of Finance, which in addition to being the legal representative of the Government
also provided the chairmen of both the NDB and BDC boards, NDB and BDC.
9.2          Govrnment. MOF played the dual roles of Government and Chairman of the
Board for both NDB and BDC durit.g project implementation, roles which were somewhat in
conflict. MOF, as Government, clearly emphasized NDB's developmental role, particularly
regarding small businesses. As the head of the Board, MOF could have been expected to
have placed more emphasis on NDB's commercial orientation and long-term viabiity. The
role of MOP as Government won out over Chairman of the Board, and Government appeared
to find the problems of NDB tolerable while NDB was seen to be promoting developmental
objectives.
9.3          The Government's slowness to act on the problems of NDB has several
causes. Because of the country's unique financial situation, the losses from NDB operations
were not keenly felt by Government, and may, in fact, have been viewed somewhat as a "cost
of doing business". The NDB Board and NDB management were also subjected to political
pressures in terms of nacing loans, and enforcing collection. The period of loan
implementation coincided with a prolonged drought in which Government was reluctant to
take strong action on agriculture loans. On a more positive note, the decision making process
in Botswana has been characterized by a consensus-seeking approach that seeks input from
involved parties in order to formulate broadly supported plans of action. The Government
sponsored several consultancies aimed at improving NDB, and sought input from the involved
donors, including the Bank. The above notwithstanding, it should be carefully noted that
when the Government finally decided that action to improve NDB was needed, it acted
without delay in fielding a team of consultants. The tough restructuring plan put forward by
the consultants has been strongly supported by the Government. This decisive action bodes
well for the effective restructuring of NDB.
9.4            .   The performance of NDB, until new management came in early 1990,
was poor. As discussed in other parts of this report, NDB management was extremely slow
to recognize the major problems at the institution, and then to take action to address them.
To a large degree, this reluctance was a result of the politicization of the Board and senior
management.
9.5          As discussed previously in this report, notable improvements in NDB's
performance began in early 1990, after the General Manager had been replaced and a new
Board appointed. The process of addressing the problems at NDB has begun by a slowing of
new approvals (ending only what is collected from previous loans), and a new emphasis on
collections. However, despite their good efforts and close working relationship, the process
of reorienting NDB has proved to be difficult and long.
9.6          The performance of the NDB auditor was mixed, with performance pre-FY89
appearing to be poor, and after FY89, adequate. The same auditing firm has audited NDB
from FY85 until the present. Until FY89, the auditor issued either clean statements, or
mildly qualified. However, in FY89, the auditors issued a disclaimer on the accounts, saying
that the accounts were unauditable. The auditors do not appear to have adequately perfonmed



- 13 -
their function in at least the period prior to FY89 as the key factors that led to the disclaimer
of the FY89 accounts - the inadequacy of systems, the poor financial management, the lack
of interest and supervision by senior levels of management and Board - were present in a
number of years preceding FY89, if not from the inception of the project. A new audit team
has performed the audits since FY90, and appear to be doing a thorough and conscientious
job.These audits have not been clean, although the accounts are clearly improving, and
voluminous comments have been made in recent management letter.
9.7           DM. As discussed previously in the report, performance of BDC throughout
the project was good.
10.   Proect Relationshi,
10.1         In general, the relationship between the Bank and the involved parties in
Botswana was satisfactory during most of the project. The relationship with BDC was good
throughout. BDC management was quite positive about the support and advice it received
from Bank missions. The Bank's relations with NDB were more volatile. Some NDB
managers felt that, in general, the Bank's involvement added to the 'professionalism of
NDB. The Bank was mildly criticized for not having been more supportive, especially by
Goverment, during NDB's 198518 collections drive, which was derailed by politics. There
was a deterioration from about mid-1988 to 1990, corresponding with increased pressure from
the Bank on Government to take the difficult steps to re-orient NDB. With the appointment
of the new General Manager in December, 1989, the relationship between the Bank and NDB
became more collaborative.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1         Quality of staff in NDB was identified as a serious problem, and the project
design attempted to address this problem through technical assistance provided by consultants,
and training (staff training has been discussed in Section 5). The SAR stated that the
contracts of "key expatriate staff' would be financed under the loan, and US$800,000 was
allocated to finance these salaries, staff training and a study of administrative costs.
The Bank financed five expatriates in NDB, including a legal advisor, senior projects officer,
finance manager, computer expert and operations adviser. The quality and effectiveness of
the Bank advisors ranged from acceptable for one advisor to questionable or poor for the
others. The senior projects officer appears to have done a conscientious job in evaluating
projects and attempting to train local counterparts to evaluate projects. Under the
operations advisor, who joined NDB in 1984 and was still there (albeit not financed by the
Bank) at the time of the PCR, the portfolio has expanded, despite Bank concerns and
cautions, and plummeted quality. The legal advisor also joined in 1984 and also was still
with NDB at the time of the PCR; his contribution also must be questioned. The auditors In
the FY90 and FY91 management ltters found many serious problems related to the legal



- 14-
functions3/. The inadequate performance of the Bank-financed finance manager has been
indicated by the unauditable state of the NDB accounts; one should note that before leaving
tNDB, the finance manager erased the hard disk on his computer, where he kept the NDB
general ledger on the computer, which destroyed any chance of reconstructing NDB activities
(and any audit trail). The computer advisor left in 1989/90, and it is difficult to evaluate his
performance. However, it should be remembered that the inadequate computer systems
figured largely in the disclaimer of the FY89 accounts. The experience with long-term
technical assistance under this loan clearly underscores the need to design and monitor TA
with care, and to scrutinize short-lists of candidates to ensure their suitability.
11.2         During implementation, a former Bank staff member was employed on a
short-term basis to assist the NDB-Oovernment task force to devel.p a strategy to address the
arrears problem. Although the consultant's work was of satisfactory quality, little resulted
from this work.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1         By and large, the project documentation was satisfactory. The Staff Appraisal
and President's reports, and the legal documents were well-prepared. In view of the major
problems, supervision should have been better documented; during discussions for the PCR,
discussions with task managers and staff involved during implementation indicated that many
discussions went on that were not fully captured in the existing documentation.
Disbursements were not always recorded by subprojects, particularly the smaller ones, which
has impeded the analysis of the use of funds for subprojects. Information on the
implementation of the technical assistance component (terms of consultants, outcomes of
taining) was not readily available in Headquarters, and had to be clarified from the field.
3IE.g., the registering of mortgage bonds (e.g., whether first or second bonds); the valuation
of securities, especially regarding movable assets; the insuring of assets given as securities;
procedures for securities (certificates of indebtedness and mortgage bonds not registered,
amounts on guarantee forms left blank); the filing of certificates for 812,000 shares in
Tswelelo (certificates were missing) and an additional apparent short allotment of 500,000
shares in the same entity; and the filing of title deeds (i.e., missing) for several regional
offices, including Gaborone, and to district offies.



- 15 -
BOTS WANA
SECOND DVIWPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROlECI
(Loan 2384BOT)
PMRT n - Prolect Review from Borrowers' Perspective
1.          No comments were received from the Borrower.



-} 6-
SBCOND DRVELOPmENT FINANCE OOMPANIES PROJRCT - Ln. 2384-8OT
PART III - Statistigal Profile
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                                        Table 1
Loan/                                          Year of
Credit   Title              Purpose            Approval  Status
1019     Bot. Devt.         Line of credit   FY74         Closed
Fin. Ltd.          to BDC
1497     Livestock II       Creation of agr.  FY78        Closed
credit div.
in NDB
2566     Nat. Land Min.     Support to NDB    FY85        ongoing
& Livestock.
2695     Selebi-Phikwe TA  Development of   PY86          Ongoing
Selebi-Phikwe
2.  Prolect Timetable                                                        Table 2
Date        Date         Date
item                                        Planned     Revised      Actual
-  identification                                                    09/20182
-  Preparation
- Appraisal Mission                                                  03 - 04/83
- Loan Negotiations                         11128/83                 11/28-1202183
- Board Approval                                                     02/21/84
- Loan Signature                                                     05/24/84
- Loan Effectiveness I/                    05/07/84                  01/08/85
- Loan Closing                             06/30/90                  06/30/92
- Loan Completion
Comments.,
I/ Condition of effectiveness: for NDB, satisfactory capital structure
and employment of key personnel.



- 17 -
3.  Loan/Credit Disbursements Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$  '000)
LL84  fY85  EY86  FY87   F US   FY89  £LY9     Y91  FY9Z  £Y93
Appraisal Estimate      0.3   1.3   3.1   53    SA    11.2  12.3    --    --
Actual                    --    --    --    --    --   3.02   3.30    5.66   5.89
Actual as X of Estimate   --    --    --    --    --    27X   272    46X   482   --
Date of Final Disbursement - -
Time ltne showing planMed,   --
revised, end actual
disbursement schedules
4.  Proiect Costs and Financing                                                 Table 4
Page 1 of 2
A. Proiect Costs
A__ Xraisal Estimate                    Actual
Foreign                           Foreign
Local   Exchange                  Local   Exchange
Item                  Costs    Costs       Total         Costs    Costs    Total
(USS m)                           (Uss m)
Line of credit         -        -           6.2          -        -           2.8
- BDC
Line of credit         -        -           5.0          -        -           1.9
- NDB
Tech. assistance       -        -           0.8          -        -           0.9
- NDB
Tech. assistance       -        -           0.2          -        -           0.2
- mining
Total                -       -           12.3          -        -           5.8



- 18 -
Table 4
S.  Project Financine                         Page 2 of 2
Planned
Sourge                    (Loan Acreementi       Final  I/          Conents
(USS '000)        (USS '000)  .
IBRD Category:
(1)  Consultants'           1.000,000        1,119,417.26    -
services and TA
(2)  SVC subprojects        6,200,000        2,842,135.36    -
(3)  NOD subprojects         3,000,00        1,682,158.83    -
under Part B,
other than
micro-loans
(4)  NDS Micro-loans        1,750,000          173,016.92    -
(5)  Initial deposit          250,000          2.
in Special
Account for
category 4
(6)  Fee                       30,000            30,674.00    -
(7)   Un-allocated             69,326
Exchange Adjustment                        46,550.66    -
Cancelled ao of                         6,406,047.27   -
Oct. 8, 1992
Total              12,300,000       12,300,000.00    -
TOTAL
Comments:
J  No revisions.
2./ Amounts documented and balance recovered.



- 19 -
S.  Status of Covenants                                                                                   Table  5
Deadline for
Asreement.  Section            Description                              Comoli ance            Status
Loan     -      3.Olb          Gov. to make annual grants                                      Under discussion.
to NDB for costs of admin-                                      Policy changes.
istering micro credits not
covered by spreads available
to N08 on its resources.
Project  - NDB 2.01            UOB operations  to be in                                        Not in coaptiance.
accordance with sound
financial practices and
with NDB policy statement.
Project  - NDB 2.02            NDB to assign at least one                   -
understudy to each expatriate
manager by June 30. 1986.
Project  - NOB 2.10            NOB to carry out and submit                  -                  OK.
to the Bank a study on NDO
administrative costs.
Project  - NDR 3.02            Audits of NDB.                               -                  Not in compltance.
Project  - UOB 3.03-4          The consolidated  debt of                    -                  Difficult  to
NOB and subsidiaries  to                                        determine  due
not be greater  than five                                       to date.
times consolidated
capital and surplus.
Project  - NDB 3.08            During  FY85 and FY86. NDB                                      OK.
to limit annual growth of
aggregate amount of loans
and investments to that of
previous year, adjusted by
inflation.    If growth
exceeds this rate, NDB to
limit growth the next year.
Project  - SOC 2.01            SOC operations  to be in                                        OK.
accordance with sound
financial practices and
with BDC policy statement.
Project  - SDC 2.08            BDC to review annually                                          OK.
interest rates with IBRD.
Project  - SDC 3.02            Audit of BOC.                                                   OK.
Project  - SDC 3.03-4          The consolidated  debt of                                       OK.
SDC and its subsidiaries
to not be greater than
five times consolidated
capital and surplus.



-20-
6.  Use of Bank Resources                                                                                  Table  6
A.  Staff  Inputs
Stage of
Prolect  CYcle                                           Staff Weeks
Through  Appraisal                                             69.2
Appraisal  through                                             10.0
Effectiveness
Supervision
FY84                             0.9
FY8S                            11.8
FY86                            13.3
FY87                            16.0
FY88                            19.1
FY89                             3.1
FY90                             8.7
FY91                            13.1
FY92                            12.9
98.9
TOTAL                                                          178.1
B.  Nissions
Stage of                Month/   Nuwber of    Days    Specialization             Performance  Rating       Types of
Protect Cycle             Year     Persons   in Field  Represented  al              Status bt             Problems  c/
Through Appraisal
-                    9182      2           4          finance
it
lit
Appraisal through
Board Approval
I                    3183      4           73_t
tt
Itl
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
I
it
i11
Supervision
I                       6185   2             8        finance                      2                       N,F,
It                      2/86   2           14         finance                      3                       N,F,
III                     7186   2             7        finance                      3                       M,F,
IV                      2/87   2           14         finance                      3                       M,F,
V                       9t87   2           10          finance                     3                       ",F,
VI                      5/88   1           12          finance                     2                       N,F,
VII                   11189    2           13          finance                     3                       M,F,
VIII                    6190   1              2        finance                     4                       N,F,
IX                    1190    1             5        finance                     E31_                     N',F.
x                       2191   1              2        finance                     3                       M,F,
xi                      7/91   2           14          finance                     3                       N,F,
XII                     4t92   2              4        finance                     3                       N,F,
a, Key to Speeiatization.
k/ I - Problem  free or minor problems;  2 - moderate  problems;  3 - major problems.
£/ F -Financial;  N -Managerial;  T -Technical;  P -Political;  0 -Other.
IV No 590 done.
g/ Total. which includes three staff for three weeks, plus one for one week,
and the division chief for three days.
Comments s
(Oaf) c:\wpSI\d*c\botpcr\StatProfann
Catherine Seibert
Jure 2S, 1993



fr08382.wkl
April 27. 1998
NATIONAL OGVELOPI SAW( (tXS)
SUmma;Rizd 1ncome Statesent. (1978 - 1993)
--     --- Atal--------- --1984----1903--           1--l86-    ---1997-- -19M. 88           -   ----    -
Your Endbng December 31    1978  1979  1980  1961    1983 I/ Pro;. Act. Pro). Act. Proj. Act. proj. Act.   proj. Act.   1989 7/ 1990   1991 2/    1992 5/ 199
INCOM                                                                                                                                                                                                 rt
ntereet con Lonsn         255   268   862   901    2284       3310  3767  4336  4301  4839  8216  8315  830       6073  7690   6219    3677      7502     9681                                      0
Govt. interest subsidy                                                                        868                                       1222     1766     21190
lot. 90 au"f loane                                                                                                                             340.28   561.96
lot. on deposit.                                                                                                                               141.61   117.78
Income f rom investments   IS     8    42    19       19        19     0    19  125    19  231        19  286       19   es    342    200         191      402
Administration fee         10   20    16   37,        71        71   130    71   165    71  249       71  1424 10/ 71  1693 8/ 2066 9/ 2190 3/ 2819 41  3616 6/
oth~er lncom.              11   11    11  212    1637                                         133            6            22      76     364        9      24712
Rental Income                                                  224   278   209   tell  211   185   226   194       242   137    140    289        874      430
Uu1,tra-ordinaza Income                                        600         262          267          267     0      --                   sit
P,,*fit an fie  mant                                                                                                                               14       so0
grants                                                       -- 25 82 7912 --                1 12              14    8         8       5         0   647.96 it/
QoSID ramnt Grant
291   307   431  1249    4011      4224  4470  572  555    635  9902  7021 7219    7750 20384    9110    8465    1)289    I1803            0                              r
5XPe0S6 3
Adminlerative  apanses 188   188   223   269    1904   1723  6~4  16 74 235             72 28 99           209     96    1612   4292      1680     397
Financial Eapense.         64   107   18?   611    1660       2543  2419  2552  3856   2603 4860   2714  8109    8020 2651    2919    2920       4119    6606
Depreciation    --    -     --   ~~~     ~~--  95  149    90   149   242    149  192    149  268        149  1055    262      369      806      639 
Staff eapansee                                    ~~~~~       ~~~~~        ~~~~~1067  1516  2025  2484  3241    3992    4779    6996     6316
Foreig   =chnge to"e                                                 .32           0                                     92      266     176      470     1206
Sad 0.t ldrlt.-G4ffe        1     1   --       7      25'                                                                                448     2344      B0o
-29
Provisions                 66     7    34   319   __60         287   592   172  255     149 3961    141  1144    '232      0    200   -29           0    23837
Totoal lapenes"         3-19   30;3   441226    4344        4652  48,41 _4836  8900  _513  11899  555   8008    6510 8468    9273   12668    16417    4204' .. 0                                             a
Profit (La")4               "29     4   -13    23    -333       -428  -371   893 -3351   1219 -1997   1469  -784    1440  1916   -163  '-4220   -3128   -23974         0
Trasfetr to ECR*serve                                                   23          26           32           33            18       0      16       16        14
-48-394   893 -3379   1219 -2029   1469  -8181   1440  1896   -168  -4236    -3143   -28968
Net Profit (Lo"e)           -28     4   -13    23   -833        '426  4394   460 -3379    751 '2029    923  -618     894  188M     16    -4220     3128   -28974        0
Ace".. profit (baas)        "28   -24   -37   -14   -347              -741       -4119        -6148         .6966        -8066  -8231   94451  -1257    -3658
1/ NDi has recentlych       itsa flscal year from Jlsnwaqv I -December 31
to April I1 - Nerb liz in order to be consistent, vmit the Government
flocal your. Fligures for 1903 ares at * merch 31 and represent
a 16-aooth period; January 1, 1962 - Masrch 31I 143.
As euch, timere Is no PY82.
1Ff91 #eccmmt, were earloucly qualifiled.
8/ ncldesP1.90.40for o"olnsbration of SWF.
/ nudeP2.08.09  for adiitainof S8F.
6/ ncldesP3715,000 for administration of SOF.
7/  udiorsia.ed    disclaimer on Pf89 accounts.
8/ ncbdeeP1,81.20for adminIstration of 5SOP.
9/ Iclue. P683544far odminiatration of 5SF.
10/Iclues P  14O86 for administration of SOP.
11/ VrIe-hscig~f ASloan overstated in 1990/1.                                                                                                                                                Odt
to00
I-t



£&4ImiAL OSmvSO7OI SAW (tam)
S.in.ret.4 Science Shetw (1978 - 1993)
ASuel                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actu,al
------------  -----e-- --  ------------           10-----   -198S4------   ------198,1966--             ---1967           16--------- 9_ _
As of Occeelec 31               1978    1979      1900    1901   1903 1/Prol.   Act..        Proj.   Act.       Proj.   Act..    Pral.   Act..    Proj.   Act..          1909     1990    1991    19925/1
ASS075
C*eh. dapoalt a Shaoft-termi  1,175    1.653    1.020    1,092   2.473       41   2.082        337   5.766         (70)  8,091       424   6,517       47   6,11a  14,001    5,294       13        1.153
i mwostments
lnloreet Recelvebl.            122      144      242      83     180       ,601,075                              2,100             2,440            2,510
Current. clmrit.la of kane 749  69     221      3,'441   3.8      743       .0        9,474   7,446      11,020  1811 12,931  21.404   14,224  23.554   17,249
Total Current. eA"t.        ,046    2,676    3,391    5,386    7,419    9,192    8.864     11,606   11.212     13,850  23,792   15,746  27.92L  17,009   30.327   36,253   8,294        739       1.14
Lose Portfol I*              2,530    2.682    4,797   11,322   24 404   20,605'S. 41,929   32.137  50.723    38,10?  89,8094   37.912  48,679   42,570   65.289  47,791  56,339   70,210         84.643
Lo". Proolsicam              171      184      215      437    1,197    1,434   2,145       1,607    4.700     1,785    8,651    1.896    9,314    2,120    9.584   9,504   11,925   11,174      42,343
Loa Portfol Is (Net)       2.351   2,490    4,519   10.70$   20.207   27,251   39.704     30.530   46,023    33 352  51.244   36,0f6  36,364   40.442   48,705   35,207   44,411  59,038        42.2299
Loe. Currant aatarit.lee      --       --       --       --       --    7,463    6,003      9,414    7,446    11,820  10,101   12,931   21,404   14,224  236534   17,249
Lme" def.rr.d interest                                                                                                                                                       8,871    7,367          0 2/
19.780  32.901     21,056  *0,577      21,532  33,143  23.085   14.960  26,910  22,151  20,958   40.640   51,670         42,299
EquItyf tn.eelmeat.a            70       78    1,424      651     961      901       i5        96£      531        901      712     951    1.212      961    1,884    1,850    2,967    3,65       3,006
Lea. proilaors                                                                                                                             210               210      410
Seas$ Ia Grroweei und6                                                                                                                                                                  4,699      14,659
Other **ase.                                                                                                                                                                   6301    7,9910 3/   7.230
Net. Rasad Aimeae               47       46       46      819      903    1.434    1.651      1,335    1,014     1,237    1,80     1,097   2.02?      947   4.796    6,299    6,77    16,109       24,614
Total Aealeo               4,52     5,9      9,440   17*611  32,570   31.375   43.572      35,030   82.141    37,580   59.30   40,930   45,710  45,215  46,710   64,750   61.867  04.7811        93,679
.055         c-s       ee       .a. ases         Ssa         ea. 55*           -05      -es      amsaweawwwa   uf                                                 fsa
LIA91LITISS
Sundr  Credi lore .          121      144      261      239      235      236     355         196     471        236      371      234     307      236       m 55     3066   3,683    2,516      3.320
Currant  setr of Ig-ta debt    252      277      300      271    1.028    1.29       510      1,792    1,432     2,112    1,765   2,112    1,228   2,112    1,208   2.690
$adII Borro.ero Ruod 41                                                                                                                     4.463            8,807?  12,438   6,740
Tota Curran Li41tIim.    303          44       569      510    2,054    2,065      96       1,98     194       234       ,1       ,4      6,6     234      7,7 1815          043       01332
sorrcsIngc
C rod'eru t                 1,126    1,120    5,005   11,509   25,094   21,765   33,780    20,457   43,147     19,024   42,994   21,120   23,236   24,366   30,492   24.420   31,951   82,643    70,284
"lSo                           100      1O0      300       --       -        -        -              -              --       -        --                         -       -         -       - 
AWEP                                                                                4t6o6                                   416                                                                              %
U.K.                           435      409      314      362      206      249     208        200      26         151      202      102      165      83      127        0
Coe                                                                                   70                 64                  5s               46                34        0
EEC                            -.         -       -        --     89    1,459       829      1,459      014      1,459    1,049    1,459    1,289    1,459    1.351   2,360   2.303    2,383        2,745
Loan f rom Subsidiary           -        -        -        --      305     305                 305                 305               305              305
ADS                                                                       2,100              4,200      598      4,200   2,504   3,860   2,103   3,560   2,206   2,007    1,990   2,594             5639"
Second Livestock                                                             --   1,620      2,000   2,260       4,000   2,441    5,090    2,6Wi6  5,000   2,847    3.029    3.272    2,603         2,653
IBM                                                                                         ~~~       ~       ~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~433  714  862    1.910   1,376   3,010  3,790
Inerst acre   n  bv                                                                  1                                                        156              413      780    1,201    1,201       1,201
In"rook overmod on ob*vo                                  213                ~~~~~~~446          9I                                  531      832    1,741   3,105       4,936
total Slorrawo.,             1,660    1,637    8,679   11,871   21,145  a5,078   36,905     25,621  47,981 0   29,939  61,109  31,866  30,405   34,743  38,969  as.376  44,002   67,601            92,359
La.s Current. Metrit,i.s       262      277      308    1271    1,82    1,029       600       1,792    1,432     2,112   1,785   2,112   1,226   2,112   1,206   2.690
Total Borrowings           1,9      1,360    6,371   11,600   25,317   24,049   36,385     26,829   46,549    21,821  49,353   29,754  29,160  32.631  37,761   32,606   44,002  67,601          92,359
UnrecellsAtl capital - coot..   2,303   3,068    3,050    4,090    4,919    4,919   3,039       5,419    3,543     5,61    a,551   6,52   10,560   8,626   10,874  10.8144   10,644  10,644          10,644
Overseas Creaea                  226      220      226      228      220      726   2,626        726   2,624         126   2,626       726   2,626      72    2.620   2.628   2,620    2,620          2,626
Accuoulat.4 proflt/(daficit)                                                          (267             (3. 895)            (2,326)          (3,144)           (1,f2*   (1,409)  (8,51497) (11.20    (35.278)
P.a.r.c.                ~~~~    ~~~~222  203  10   377       44    (304)    444           76      44          27     44     170         07    2,604      526      52       85    81          15,26
Subsidiary                                                                            230                 214                 391              lot               165      245      234      242         229
Producti,. Eaplv. Davl. Fund                                                                              237                 216              211               210      210      210      210         210
Staff Oenef it Sos..                                                                  129                 222                 382              524               736   1,020    1,316   3.700         4,300
Net Vortl                  2,751   3,495    3,500   5,501    6,189   5,261   8,251         6,221   3,60811 0   7,405   6,100   0,03    11,468  10,236   13,590  13,870    7,443   14,648         (2,000)
Tota Liab I ltil. and
Nat worth                    4,832   5,290    9,440  17,611  32,570   31,375  43.572    35,038  52,141    37,580  59,530  40,438  48,710  45,215  60, 718   54,730  61,067   04.781                93,679
eseas  ssa.   aus    sOua    sass    us... 5005*  masS    5555  555    sen      ensue    £0555     ns..   555*wou55..e...us.s                    5*55
I/ NM1 PY eac, changed from Jan. - CDec. to April -M'arch to be consiatent with Ckovt. Figures for FY83 or. as of '(arch 31, end represent a 15-cooth period. As ea,ch threr  ao no FY82.                ,  ,
2/ DaFerred Interast has been lumopedi into provisican.09
3/Lergaly staff I~lan
4/ Reported separately so of FY071-
4    traete  Of        *0%:?.~  : worth, Staff Benefit Sobma. aheulO b. trehatd ca. lu-bilitf. Senle,r acceunla                                                                                           '-
trete  iA a cpial od(oding. Properly putting the banafit echame IA liebilitla. pulla net, earth to P-M.0



-23 -
onC xx PIMXT                                                               Table  7
Hatian.l Oev-lopont Bank                                                        Page  3  of  6
Suboroj et                   i1          uS$       ODiburoed
No.           Subproject          Region       Notu.         Subsector   Approval    Amount       12/01/92
AN-1      L.T. Auto Spar"             Kn             v rvico      garage     03/24/87       108l000   80041,4t
AN-2      Herula Mantasi                        manufacturing  sawa1it, furn. 01/25/55      200.600  207.789,44
AN-3           etie 1ve.tment-       Ramotuwa     *ervic       dry cl .ning  02/16/90        04.000   63978 .44
A14-4          Enr"L9batee                        aerate.      dry c?sl.nsn  07/13/90        64000   81,004.80
s         Jru Ctotsnel               Caborone     service         mdcal    07/I3/oo         122S002  12S 998.87
AN-6      Engtn Reconditioning       Caborone      service      :uto repair  01/S/90        S34=000  141,53S S.
AN-7      Ceneral Packaginge nd.     Camboene  *anufacttr.ng  Ppe Or. 0latiea 10/09/90      500.000  889 252.08
AN-S      Kanena Safari.              Kenya       *orvica         touries    10/18/90       18O,000   53,813.86
AN-9      Halleys Coast                                                      06/30/92       197,000  205,713.81
MA-1      A. K. Kandy                                                        03/21/86         7,266
MA-2      H. Wright                                                          S3/21/86         2.137
MA-3      C Croup                                                            03/21/88        7T358
MA-4      C. Ntuluki                                                         03/21/S8        10,691
MA-S      .8S. SI**                                                          03/21/66         3,919
MA-6      Natlhalerwa Syno.                                                  03/21/88        13.007
HA-?      M.N. Ti la                                                         03/21/88         2 902
MA-8      W.M. Ketiml lv-                                                    03/2188          3,333
HA-O      H.8 Oieel                                                          03/21/86         3.088
HA-SO       ..J.S S kg..                                                     03/21/88         4.274
MA-1S     Leaf Wftan-                                                        03/21/58         3.142
HA-12     M.S. msfu-i                                                        03/21/88        17,098
HA-13     0. Tau                                                             03/21/88         S.8=2
HA-14     L Kgaodi                                                           03/21/88         4.007
HA-LS     C. Beaokel.                                                        03/21/88         3.S11
MA-1S     8. Loeto                                                           03/21/88         1 ,17
KA-17     S.L. Holeta                                                        03/21/88        2Cne
MA-18     J.D. Von Vuuremn                                                   03/21/88         5.343
HA-19     J.K. Phiteans                                                      03/21/88         4,274
HA-20     S.K. Dibeela                                                       03/21/88         4 237
11A-21    O.K. Kstloo ivng                                                   03/21/88         4.274
KA-22    NHE. Tiro                                                           03/21/88         4.274
11A-23    K. Horoa      5                                                    03121/8          2 137
HA-24     Tjitunga/Hang. Synd.                   agriculture     boreholo    11/0387         13.600
MA-25     Eeily Maruping                          griculur        poutrty    02/05/88        165200
KA-26     S.bogo                                 agricult"e:    ranch deat.  07/25/88         7 200
HA-27     Edna Hie ley               Palapy.    agricultur,       tractor    11/03/89        10.000
MA-28     Patrick Kaote               Sero-.    agricultur        atock      01/18/90         9.750
MA-29     E. Ramoou                  .outhen    agriculture  toactor, inputs 01/23/90        87 000
1A-30     C. Hatshela                Sarolong   agriculture       traeetor    O/3/90         13.400
MN4-1     E.P. Tabena                                                        03/21/88         2.137
HN-2      0 Makgotho                                                         03/21/8          2,865
lN-3      S.T. Ha likogia                                                    03/21/88         3.420
HN-4      E. K Thuku                                                         03/21/86         4.769
194-S     L. HoipolaT                                                        03/21/88         1.817
itl-6     A. Taven  Pty.                                                     03/21/86         2.992
19-7      0.1. Muneapi                                                       03/21/86         2.137
KA A1MN   Total                                                                             298,968   173,016.92
3A-1      Oavid O.J.Heaare                                                   03/21/86        21.372   21S440.00 Par Ahmed'e t-la, W4-1
54-1      Or. N.N. Naaholaba                                                 04/08/86        43,047   43.322.,7
5N-2      Euni es Toxt;lee                     manufacturing    garent.    03/24/57          36.609   25.094.01
81N-3     Kanys Hotel                                                        07/25/8         44,300   45.S50.73
S-4      Pon African Trad;ng        Caberon    construction  ce~nt proluct. 0725/           21S50   24,620.01
TOTAL for appro,ed subprojects                                                            2.063.444 1.855.175.45
Technical Assistance
No.              Name                           Nature                   Approval    Amount       D;iburad   Status
TA-I      Deloitte Hekina & Sell-                coet etudy                  04/15/8s        48.000   468000.00
TA-2      Ms. Tabolofele Pahlagae                                            08/14/88        39 000        0.00
TA-a  Me. Maria Ha~~~~~~.auio ~ACA 4ual.                        0812%/87         22 000
TA-3      Me. Taholofelo PAlasga.i                  MBA                      06/12/87
TA-3      Mr. Robasol- Radibe                     SSc Agr.                   08/12/87        84 000   72,290.81
TA-4      Ha. Judith Pro"                                                    10/15/87        11.846
TA-S      Hr. TUhkiso Monyai.                                                 0/07/88 i8 061   14i914.10
TA-t      NDi slar;**ie  for  aspats.:         P732542.91
TA-6      E. K. Tibeisgwa
TA-t      8. Rahen
TA-6      P.P. Wiem;an
TA-6      E.A. Saffeur
TA-6      B.K. Acolyte.



-24.
Table 7
BOTSWANA                                    Page 4 of 6
DFC II PROJECT
National Development Bank
Status of Subprojects Financed under Ln. 2384
This annex deals with subloans greater than US$20,000.
LT Auto Spares
Subproject AN-1, approved in March 1987 for US$108,000 of
which US$80,041 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P109,055 of P170,000 approved; arrears were
P63,266.
Marula Mantsi
Subproject AN-2, approved in July 1988, for US$200,600 of
which US$207,789 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P484,730 of P466,030 approved; arrears were
P162,587.
Mogatle Investment
Subproject AN-3, approved in February 1990, for US$84,000
of which US$63,978 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P138,186 of P165,610 approved; arrears were P277.
LM&P Express
Subproject AN-4, approved in July 1990, for US$64,000 of
which US$51,004 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P94,088 of P120,000 approved; there were no
arrears.
JTB (Botswana)
Subproject AN-5, approved in July 1990, for US$128,000 of
which US$128,998 was disbursed. As of Febraary 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P309,355 of P239,330 approved; arrears were
P106,384.
Engine Reconditionint
SubproJect AN-6, approved in July 1990, for US$134,000 of
w',l.ih US$141,538 was disbursed.  As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P251,497 of P333,000 approved; arrears were
P17,167.



-25-
General Packaginz Ind.                                                      Table 7
Page 5 of6
Subproject AN-7, approved in October 1990, for US$500,000
of which US$589,252 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P1,274,487 of P1,373,471 approved; arrears were
P28,619.
Kanana Safaris
Subproject AN-8, approved in October 1990, for US$180,000
of which US$53,813 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P413,254 of P398,000 approved; arrears were
P34,361.
Halleys Comet
Subproject AN-9, approved in June 1992, for US$197,000 of
which US$205,713 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P857,099 of P732,000 approved; there were no
arrears.
David B. J. Masire
Subproject BA-1, approved in March 1986, for US$21,372 of
which US$21,440 was disbursed. In arrears, although amount
uncertain; Mr. Masire has seven outstanding loans, all with close to
100 percent arrears.
E. Ramosu
Subproject MA-29, approved in January 1990, for
US$87,000. As of February 1993, outstanding debtor balance was
P121,205 of P164,700 approved; arrears totaled P15,394.
Dr. N. Mashalaba
Subproject BN-1, approved in March 1986, for US$43,047 of
which P43,322 was disbursed. As of February 1993, loan appears to
have been paid off.
Eunilez Textiles
Subproject BN-2, approved in March 1987, for US$36,609 of
which US$25,094 was disbursed. As of February 1993, outstanding
debtor balance was P50,720 of P67,355 approved; arrears totaled
P7,035.
Kanye Hotel
Subproject BN-3, approved in July 1988, for US$46,300 of
which US$45,550 was disbursed. The loan did not appear in the ledger
as of February 1993.



-26 -
Pan African Trading                                                         Table 7
Page 6 of 6
Subproject BN-4, approved in July 1988, for US$21,550 of
which US$24,620 was disbursed. As of February 1993, there did not
appear to be arrears.
No information was available or received from NDB on the status or
success of the NDB subprojects financed under Ln. 2384. Given the
disarray of NDB computer systems, it is unlikely that such
information exists on the 37 microloans financed under the loan.
However, general portfolio information supplied by NDB indicates that
for the 15 larger subprojects financed under the loan, five had
arrears greater than 10 percent of the original amount approved; six
appeared to be free of arrears, and/or paid off; the remaining four
had smaller levels of arrears.



| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1" OOQ-*  
tlOTSWi4 Dt8.Pl4   COOPCRAT1tO  (48CC
Act...  * nd Proj.cled 1.'coa  S.te.ente
(P000D)
Veer ending see_        _  -------------10-                                                1------- 18-                            10-                 --------   a
---~~~~~---- - --- - _----!     _    -- ----2 -       ------- ------195--         ----986 ------  ......-1987 ------  ------ te-----    -_-__-__------ - ----____
Y    un-30  97  198      198      1983 Projected Actual  Pvoj.ct.d Acte)    Projected Actual  Projected Actual  ProjecteJ Acue;t              1909    1990       1991      1992
Revenua,                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
- ---------- nu   ------ -                                                                                                                                                                                         rt
Rental and Trade               209      S01       075     102S      1191     1246      1389      696      1107         712      1221      730      1434       751     1425      1507     2120      2559     3418    I
Interest on Loans             675       565      529       8S6      1226     1763      1017     2552      1604        3341     2620      4043      3073     4724      3846     4090      7064    115s1    15117    01
Dividend Incmeo                408      2t3       307      501      1376     1236      1652      1S32     1474        le9      286s     1908      S710      297      7171      9731    10010    13571    20592    :i
Profit an late of Invest
ent,t In _utN. ond rt .                                                              299                 -50                                     2419               3691     2501      4114      1748     1077
Other                          151       3a        79       65        34       -         13       --        82                    91       -         e 4       -        93                 97       s7      1750    C'
Total                       1444     1362      1070     2557     3S2S      4245      4370     470       4260        5942     6797      67661    12720     7772    16226    1B209    2390f    30206    42772    4
Adoiniotretive Expenses        325      e06       571      706      1737     1262     2076      1353      2637        1358     3243      14J8      4154     1471      5191     5739      7019    12316    12345    0
(of which de rec iaion)      (10)      (1)      (14)      (31k     (45       (40a ()            (61      _79          1S9    4)4                            (65i    (121401    (1o      (2156     (m2       -302    0
Interest an 9rem4in           4         359      31        369     4407       542     w502                               4567                      2427        (o       0      2817      433      6J27      9274 
- -- ---  ---..  --  ---------------------------   -----I
Totat                       703      0a"       80       1074     2144      1004     2576      2342      3057       2702      5131      4028      656l     4670      8194     0538    11206    18743    2131'   q
Poeofit beor  Provieions 
end Tena                    6"1       497      900      1483     1682      2441     1792      2430       431       3190      166S      2733     6139      3094      e032     9733    1279    11463    21455 
Extreordinary Incer
(Lo..)           -5           1  800                      --       --        --        3 --            -393 /    --             0        --        IS       --         0       26        64       27        as   Pr
Total                       610      1357      905      1403     102       2U41     1795      2430        88       3190      1674      2733      6152     3094      0040     9759   12053    11490    21541
Prvilsons for Loe,s,            --       -        310     -300        --      010         0      918         0         934         0     1052      3600     1176      3123     3984      2923      7476     9487
In.etoeents Written off                                                                                                                                                                            2025     1724
Eachane, I.e.ee                                                                                                                                                                                    1257       094
Texas                          203      204       279      481       0"4      512       837      402       S99         643       606      669       073       770     116"      1957     2480      -234       180
"et Profit (La")               407     s15a       396     ±002      1036     1119      1256     1036      -361        1613      1008     1012      1679      1148     3701      3810     7450      4248    11805
APfROPIUATION
0)vedend                                                                      102                396                   ao6                S9                 396                                                        t1
- preference                                                                          102                102                  102                 368                396      396       396       394      370         -'
-oerin        Fd                                                            109                            0                  690                1405               1886     2900      3024      1927     S748         t
tlen<_rc t I fundt                                                         489                195                  264                 200         0      232         0        0         0
Transfer to none
ditributebla rervo                                                                    99                -122                  -58                  99                223     -411         0       300        0
_____   _____   _ ___   _____   .__ _   _____   _____    _____-_____        -----     -__--     _ __--_      _     __ _
Retaine  Eernings                                                             828       722      447      -341         963       374      410      -273       520     1266       853     4030      1627      5748
/Include* P400 grant to subsidiary, leee P7 profit on axis of f;ned aeecte.
AFSIE
000 
(0



80TU4ANA  e_______ CapUloA 4 (CC>
Actoel epd Projected S7e1ence Sheets
(1,000)    -----
Act.. I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~(eao
- - -- - ---- -  -------10-----7                                                          -1-------             --- --------
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  - - -- ------  14S4 ---------- JAMS- -----  -                19St ----- _987 ------18-- -                      -~~ ----
Ae of Diao  30                1979    I900      1901     192     1983 Projected Actais  Projected Actual  Projected Actual ProJected Actual Projected Act.Al         1989     1990    1991     1902
ASSOTS
Curoret Asset.                 6      276       1702      739     1844     3454     2100     3911     7019     4736    9431      4926    13194    659       16377    7483    16334    37616   45351
2891 ty I*v.s5eeete           2199    2327    ala?       7660   12141    13232    13149    18344   25198   21577    31775    22577    42001   23427    51172    54S06    77859   91773   114402
toan Ieweeteent.e             7640    8591    8135       9558     9099    14455    11063    19004    16221    24773    19415   30255   24162   36829   28320    51910   85651   109711   147324
ather                                                                                 25
O" Pwortfol to              9839                                          SW 08 2  17415    21240    29687    25037    38148    41416    46350    51190    52832    86163    602_6    79495   106606   188510  201464  261726
Lee. PrOvisions for tOes"    1676      975      1285     985       958    1765      1308     2683     2127     3617     2244     4669    5244      5845    67(5    10749   12549   19879   27834
not Portfollo               8163    7943    n997    16430   202         27922    23729    35465    39209    42733    48946    48163   60919   64411    72730   96067   145961   181606  233892
Net Fixed Aeete                202      204      202      240      267      200      255      288      292      2i8      319      312      371      330      413      682      828      7108     06
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____                                                                              -----    ----     -_ ---  _ -----    -__ --  _ -----  ___    _ ___      -__ --     -----__________
TOtAL ASSES                 9033   10913    118091    17409   22306    31666   26092   39664    46600   47767   58696    53401    74484    51340   89S20   104092   162C23  210039  20O049
-  -  -we  -   -      aern.   e~~~~e        e    e.e.    in                          fleece      fm e__  _ *__                    e _. 
C rrent te0Li  iUtilc          478     929      1126      601     1260     159      1990     1779     2403     2678     9757      1973    11030    3065    10780   10039   12494    21527    23163
DUe toJrou0P Ocepalee                                                              1080              2418              3228              2682              2420    2896      3466     2005      1045
Oorr   t 6*ation                                                                                                                                                               777       77        0
Ltgr-tem debt                4857     3063     3650     5112      6080    11121     7039    17862    18195    22603    21800   28632   308O8    36273   37107    35429    83761  103347  130309
Echenge IDoe borne by 00                                                                                                                                                     -2328   -2792   -4480
Lt_  Curroen Naturi tie               -259                                 -269      390     -2s              _259      -642    -28       3960    -673    -455    -1577   -1874  -1148    -7000
Tote-  Liabilitle,          6033    4792    4784       5713     780    12821    10527    19382   22360    28022   34143    30246    40902   37666   45788    46487    76496   113406   142137
- Orda "Cy                   3945    3945      3945     3945     3945      4645     3945     6645     6945     7145     8945     7145   IS180      7145    25000   300    04200   83200   103t99
- Preference                   --      200     1200      1200     3200    4000      1200     4000     1200     4000     1200     4000    4000    4000    4000    4000         4000    3700    3700
- Rereo                        55     1976     1962     essi    9362    10190    10420    10637    16105    11600    16400    12010   14502   12830    14766    14005    1227    19533   31013
Tout Sq"1ty                 4000    6121    7107    11696    14507   1835    15565    20282   24250   22745    24583    231tS    33582    2367S   4376S    57601   86427   1064733  137912              00
TOTAL CAPIT.ZALZATt        9033   10913   lt19       17409    22396    31605    26092    39604    46600    47767    68696    63401    74484    61340    89520  104092   162923  219039   260049
_ _ea    _-                -         -      ce       sa.   eae          sfe     fe. .   ease       ea,        *__   _  .a.    eae      a... .   S.,.   _ee
07



- 29 -                                                      Table 8
Page 3 of 4
OFC II PROJ8C1T
botawana O velop.ent COrp.
Loan 23E4 -Financed Subhprojct
Subproject                    IBM       Or; nal        D;abursed
No.           Subproject           Location         Nature        Subsector   Approval  Allocation        12/01/92
DA-1      Sugar Packers, Ltd.         Francietown        new            a#g.       10/03/68    8384.615.00    83d4.61S.00
DA-2      Western lIdustrial Entate.  Cehorone        expmnsion      nd, *etatee   10/21/86   t631.4b1.72    4631,481.72
OA-3       Educ'l Equipment Botsa na                     now              g.       12/16/86   *373.7eo.00    6344.158.60
DA-4       ACK Milling                  Moehud;          now            .1g.       06/15/87   8774,724.00            0.00
DA-S      Flrnciatown Hi l ing &Troad.  Frncietown       new            saf.       02/04(88   1530,410.00           80.00
OA-6       Marble Products          Seleb;-Phidkw     expansion         *fg.       10/10/90   8365.000.00    6251,630.12
DA-7       a A D (Botawana), Ltd.   Selebi-Phikwe     expapenon         Ufg.       01/04/91    82S7,000.00    824,894.37
0A-8      Kgale Quarry                 Caborone       eapanalon        mining      01/04/91  t1,290,000.00    8970.898.65
DA-e      VIE - Phse, IV               Caboreon       eapnsion    ind. *tatem  09/28/91  61,230.000.00              60.00
0A-10     WIE - Bnevcan                Caborone           ew        mnd. estate.  02/26/91   65CO,000.              80.00
Total ter approved subprojects                                                   18,337,020.72 82.857,376.48



-30 -
Table 8
BOTSWANA                                  Page 4 of 4
DFC II PROJECT
Botswana Development Corporation
Status of Subproiects Financed under Ln. 2384
Sugar Industries, Ltd.
Subproject DA-1, approved in November 1986; US$ 384,615
disbursed. Sugar Industries is the main producer of refined sugar in
Botswana. Subsequently, Sugar Industries has moved from Francistown
to Lobatse. The company has serviced the BDC obligation
satisfactorily. At the end of 1992, the company employed 112.
Marble Products Botswana, Ltd.
Subproject DA-6, approved in November 1990, for
US$365,000 of which US$251,630.12 was disbursed.  Located in Selebi-
Phikwe, Marble Products manufactures synthetic marble bathroom
fixtures for domestic and export markets. Company is servicing BDC
debt satisfactorily. Subproject funds were used to help finance a
new factory, office and warehouse building. Marble Products employed
112 in 1992.
B & D Botswana, Ltd.
Subproject DA-7, approved in January 1991, for US$257,000
of wh:.ch US$274,594.37 was disbursed. Located in Selebit-Phikwe, the
compaty produced steel roof sheeting, structural steel and steel
implemants. The managing director (also major shareholder) died in
1992. The company became insolvent and was liquidated.
Kzale Quarries, Ltd.
Subproject DA-8, approved in January 1991 for
US$1,290,000 of which US$970,896.55 was d&Abursed. Kgale Quarries
is the largest supplier of stone aggregates in the Gaborone area.
Company and has serviced BDC loan satisfactorily. Subproject
financed expansion and improvement of company's production.
Kgale employed 91 in 1992.



