OFFICIA1 LOAN NUMBER 2384 BT
DOCU M ENTS
Proj ect Agreement
(Second Development Finance Companies Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE BOTSWANA DEVELoPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUKIER 2384 BT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          0   (/,t  a/q      , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and THE BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called BDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between  the  Republic   of  Botswana  (hereinafter  called  the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million three hundred thousand dollars ($12,300,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that BDC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BDC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
BDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "subsidiary" means any company of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by BDC or by BDC and
one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of BDC
Section 2.01. BDC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan


﻿- 2 -
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and
conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial and banking practices with qualified management and per-
sonnel and in accordance with the Statement of Policy of BDC.
Section 2.02. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (4ther than a
free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
BDC shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfac-
tory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the Investment;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request, including a calculation of the economic rate of return
for all Sub-loans exceeding the equivalent of $130,000 showing
that the Investment Project concerned has an economic rate of
return of 10% or more.
(b) Each request by BDC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, includ-
ing the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, BDC shall make
no Sub-loans for and no investments in property development
except for development of industrial estates or construction of
factory shells.
(d) Except as the Bank and BDC shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the
Bank on or before June 30, 1988.
Section 2.03. (a) The amortization schedule applicable to
each Sub-loan shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and BDC shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not
extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank of


﻿- 3 -
suCh Sub-loan or Investment, or in the case of a free-limit
Sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(b) BDC shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made by BDC in respect of
the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.04 (a) BDC undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms
whereby BDC shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests- of the Bank and BDC, including, in the
case of any Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appro-
priate in the case of any Investment, the right of BDC to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance   with  sound   technical,  financial  and   managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them, and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or BDC shall


﻿reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the admini-
stration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with BDC.
(b) BDC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and BDC; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) BDC shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated for the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans
and Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, BDC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects financed by BDC, their costs and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by BDC and
the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. BDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the BDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the BDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BDC shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part C
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) BDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of


﻿-    -5 -
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BDC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. During execution of Part C of the Project, BDC
shall, annually, review with the Bank the interest rates charged
in its lending operations.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BDC shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part C of the
Project and of each Investment Project financed by BDC (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of BDC; such
accounts to reflect separately BDC's lending operations and its
transfers of working capital to BDC's subsidiaries.
Section 3.02. BDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank,
as soon as available but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of BDC and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. BDC shall: (i) conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all
times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for
reasons beyond BDC's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and BDC shall otherwise
agree based on the review referred to below, BDC shall not, incur
or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the
incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BDC and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
5 times the consolidated capital and surplus of BDC and all its
subsidiaries; such ratio to be reviewed by the Bank and BDC at
the request of BDC, if BDC considers that such tatio is too
restrictive in respect of its own operations or the operations of
its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by BDC or any subsi-
diary maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Pula debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by BDC for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d)  "consolidated debt of BDC and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of BDC and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by BDC to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to BDC or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of BDC and its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of BDC and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of BDC in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in BDC or
any other subsidiary.
Section 3.05. BDC shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BDC which, in the


﻿-7-
judgment of the Bank, would materially affect BDC's ability to
meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.06. The Bank and BDC shall, from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of BDC and its subsidiaries, and BDC shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BDC and its subsidiaries.
Section 3.07. BDC shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This- Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BDC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BDC thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BDC:
The Botswana Development
Corporation Limited
Mmanaka Road
P.O. Box 438
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable Address:                     Telex:
DEVELOP                            2251
Gaborone
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BDC may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and BDC shall furnish to the
Bank sufficint evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
0          Eastern Africa
THE BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
ByieRpeeav
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of /fiAA , 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


