Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18094
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREI)IT 2269-ZA)
June 25, 1998
Mining and Industry Unit
Energy, Mining and Telcommunications Department
Private Sector Finance, Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =     Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 (as of April 1998)   =     K 1,750
FISCAL YEAR
Government                =     January 1 - December 31
ZCCM                      =     April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
IDA          -     International Development Association
ERIP         -     Economic Recovery & Investment Promotion
ERIPTA       -     Economic Recovery & Investment Promotion Technical
Assistance
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
ISTP         -     Interim Short Term Plan
LDP          -     Letter of Development Policy
LME                London Metal Exchange
MCL          -     Maamba Collieries Limited
MMMD         -     Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
PIRCII             Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PIRCTA       -     Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit Technical Assistance
SAR          -     Staff Appraisal Report
TA           -     Technical Assistance
ZCCM         -     Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd.
ZPA          -     Zambia Privatization Agency
Vice President            Callisto Madavo
Director           :      Phyllis Pomerantz
Manager                   Peter van der Veen
Staff Member              John E. Strongman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2269-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................          2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................                          6
A.  Background and Project Objectives.                                       6
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                       8
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
D.  Project Sustainability .12
E. Bank Perforance .12
F.  Borrower Performance .13
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operations .14
I.  Key Lessons Leamed .14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .....................................................  16
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .18
Table 3: Project Timetable .18
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursenaents: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual .19
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Pro ject Implementation .19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .20
Table 7A: Project Costs            ..................................      25
Table 7B: Project Financing ................................................  26
Table 8:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................  26
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenant ................................................  27
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................  31
Table 1: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................  31
This document has a restricted distributlion and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Appendix A:   Project Completion Mission Aide-Memoire ...................                                               32
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the Report ...........................                                           38



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECH:NICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2269-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mining
Sector Technical Assistance Project for Zambia for which Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) 2269-ZA in the amount of SDR 15.6 million equivalent was approved
on June 13, 1991. The Credit became eflective on February 5, 1992.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, which was the original closing
date. Final disbursement took place on October 31, 1997, at which time a balance of
SDR 127,214.40 was canceled. As of Jume 1998, there is an outstanding balance for the
special account of SDR 52,049 for which final documentation needs to be received.
Preparation of this ICR was led by John Strongman of the Mining and
Industry Unit of the Energy, Mining ancd Telecommunications Department. It has been
reviewed by Peter van der Veen, Manager of the same unit, Emile Sawaya, FPSI Sector
Leader, Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director and has been cleared by LEGLA. The
Borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR commenced during the Bank's final supervision
mission from April 7-28, 1997. It is based on materials collected by the mission and in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing
historical information regarding both the project and the Credit, by contributing views
reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire and by producing its section of the report.



2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2269-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
Introduction. Mining has long been the backbone of Zambia's economy
contributing in the 1970s and 1980s about: 90% of Zambia's foreign exchange earnings
and functioning as the largest formal employer after the Government. The aim of the
project was to provide technical assistance to the majority Government-owned Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (ZCCM): (a) to assist ZCCM to improve its operations,
lower its costs, joint venture its underdeveloped copper resources and divest non-mining
assets; (b) to assist the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD) to create
an attractive investment environment for inew private sector mining investment and to
design an institutional strengthening program for MMMD; and (c) to assist Maamba
Collieries to reduce costs and prepare a long run strategy.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE A ND RESULTS
Achievement of Objectives - ZCCM. For ZCCM, the critical objectives of
improving efficiency and reducing costs were not accomplished. ZCCM undertook
extensive work to prepare an Interim Short Term Corporate Plan (ISTP) for FY93/94 -
FY95/96 aimed at lowering costs and increasing production. But instead of improving,
ZCCM's performance deteriorated and botht production and efficiency declined to a point
where ZCCM became in danger of insolvency. The Government decided that ZCCM
should be privatized and a study of privatization options was carried out in 1994 under
the PIRCTA (Credit 2406-ZA). Subsequently, in 1995 with support from the ERIPTA
(Credit 2875-ZA), the Government hired an investment bank and international lawyer to
design and help the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) and ZCCM to implement the
privatization. Several packages were privatized in 1997 including the joint venturing of
two important undeveloped copper deposits - Konkola North and Konkola Deep.
Achievement of Objectives - MMMD.  With regard to the support for
MMMD, considerable progress has been achieved.  The project supported the
development of a new mining code and fiscal regime that is conducive to private
investment. This has helped facilitate an upsurge of exploration in Zambia by private
investors, including many international mining companies, and was a critical
precondition for privatizing ZCCM.



3
Achievement of Objectives - Maamba Collieries.  The preparation of a
long-term strategy for Maamba Collieries revealed that the company was not viable.
Following further deliberations, the Government subsequently decided to offer Maamba
for privatization and a bid has been accepted.
Major Factors Affecting the Project.  While there were several factors
affecting the project, including world copper prices, government influence over the
retention of funds by ZCCM and the availability of funds from the budget for MMMD,
the single most important factor was the design and implementation of the ISTP by
ZCCM and its consultants. As noted earlier, ZCCM was unable to implement the plan
successfully and instead of improving, ZCCM's performance deteriorated severely.
Project Sustainability. The assistance under the project for ZCCM was
not successful in restoring ZCCM to profitability and increasing its efficiency, let alone
sustaining such results. The assistance for MMMD was successful in establishing an
attractive legal, regulatory and fiscal environment for private sector investment in mining.
The assistance for Maamba Collieries was partially successful in that it laid the basis for a
decision to privatize Maamba. While the results of the project are very mixed, it should
be noted nevertheless that the outlook for long-term sustainability of the mining sector is
positive given the big upsurge in exploration by private mining companies over the past
two years and provided the ongoing privatization of ZCCM is completed. Once this is
completed, there will be many new international mining companies participating in the
mining sector, bringing strong financial capacity as well as strong management and
technical capability to the sector.
Bank Performance.    The Bank performance is considered to be
satisfactory. While the project did not initially support privatization of ZCCM's existing
mines, it did establish a new vision for the sector and an enabling environment to attract
private investment. When ZCCM's performance deteriorated in 1995, at the request of
the Government, Bank staff worked rapidly and intensively to identify the underlying
problems and to support ZCCM in preparing an Emergency Action Program to enable
ZCCM to survive while privatization takes place. In addition, the latter stages of this
project directly supported ZCCM's privatization.
Borrower's Performance. ZCCM was the implementing agent for the
overall work and the main beneficiary of the project. The results were not satisfactory in
terms of the inability of ZCCM's management to adequately acknowledge or correct the
deterioration of ZCCM's operating performance. The Government's performance in the
preparation and implementation of the project is considered satisfactory. MMMD is
working well with the private sector and the Government's decision to privatize both
ZCCM and Maamba is considered the right response to resolving the difficulties of both
companies.
Assessment of Outcome. The project has largely achieved its objectives
regarding MMMD and Maamba Collieries, but did not achieve its objectives regarding



4
ZCCM. Given that ZCCM was by far the largest component of the project, the overall
outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory.
Future Operations. While no future operations are presently expected,
performance of the mining sector will remain a key issue for Zambia's economic
performance for the future and the Bank will continue to monitor the sector's
performance. If required, the Bank may consider additional support to the Government to
ensure that sector administration and regulation is fully adequate in the light of
performance of the private sector organizations.
Key Lessons Learned
Important lessons can be identified from the Mining Sector TA as follows:
* Flexibility needs to be built into the design of TA operations in order for the operation
to be able to respond to changing governmnent policy decisions/country circumstances.
In the case of this project, the emphasis shifted from support to ZCCM to improve its
operations to support to ZCCM to undlertake key preparatory steps necessary for its
privatization.
a  The design of a satisfactory regulatory and legal framework to support private sector
investment and operation is a key prerequisite to implementation of privatization and
private sector development initiatives. In the case of this project, the establishment of
the new mining code, mining fiscal regime and environmental regulations was a key
factor for a resurgence in exploration by international mining companies that has
taken place in Zambia in the past few years and was also a pre-requisite to the ZCCM
and Maamba privatization activities.
*  The articulation of clear policies, developed with strong input from the various
stakeholders in the sector, can contribute to broad based ownership of sector reform
and help build a strong consensus among different parties to support the
implementation of reform initiatives. ][n the case of this project, the Mining Sector
TA Project included an extensive consultation process for the preparation of the new
mining law and associated mining enivironmental regulations which built strong
support for the opening up of the sector to private investment.
*  A TA operation can be an important starting point for the process of sector reform,
even though the reform program may not be fully developed. In the case of this
project, the Mining Sector TA provided the starting point for the process of mining
sector reform in Zambia. Subsequently the PIRC II, PIRCTA, ERIP and ERIPTA
operations broadened and deepened the reform effort to support the privatization of
both ZCCM and Maamba. With hindsight it could be argued that privatization of
ZCCM should have been an objective of the Mining Sector TA; however, the reality
is that this was not politically feasible in 1991.



5
* A clear separation of different objectives and associated components in a TA project
can allow for partial successes. In the case of this project the objectives for regulatory
reform were well achieved by the MMMD component. In contrast, the objective of
improving sector performance by strengthening ZCCM was not achieved.
* The new organizational structure, of a Country Director supported by a Country
Team, enabled a team to be formed that could operate effectively across institutional
boundaries. In the case of this project, the country team approach was adopted for
Zambia in early 1994 and helped facilitate the formation of a team of staff from
different vice presidencies that worked in a fully coordinated manner on mining
sector reform in Zambia through five different operations.



6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 2269-ZA)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background and Project Objectives
Background  The mining sector has long been the backbone of Zambia's
economy, contributing in the 1970s and 1980s about 90% of Zambia's foreign exchange
earnings and fiunctioning as the largest formal employer after the Government. The
dominant products are copper and cobalt. At the time that the credit was approved in
1991 these were produced entirely by the majority Government-owned Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (ZCCM).  Copper production had been declining
steadily during the 1970s and 1980s and was expected to drop sharply at the end of the
century because of expected exhaustion of reserves at several of the major mines.
In 1990 the Government embarked on a program of structural adjustment.
Given the overwhelming dependence of the economy on the mining sector for foreign
exchange earnings, and given the need for new mines to be developed to replace those
that were nearing exhaustion, the Government's main goals for the mining sector, while
trying to diversify the economy away from copper and cobalt, were to: (a) make ZCCM
as efficient as possible in order to generate a significant part of the funds required to
diversify the economy; and (b) open the sector to private investments in order to
encourage the development of new mineral exports and new mines. The Government
approached the Bank to provide assistance in implementing the strategy, following which
the Mining Sector T.A. project was prepared.
Project Objectives.   Tihe objectives of the project as stated in the
President's Report were to support the Government in implementing an effective strategy
for the mining sector. Specifically,
* in the short term, the strategy aimed at improving the efficiency and productivity of
the mining sector so that it could generate the resources needed to support the
recovery and diversification of the economy.
* In the longer term, the strategy aimed at
- supporting the development of new copper mines by private investors,
- ensuring the systematic phasing out of depleted operations,



7
- supporting the development of non-copper mining exports, especially
gemstones; and
- helping strengthen environmental protection in mining.
The objectives were to be achieved through the following three main
components:
(A) Support to ZCCM for
(a)   preparation of geological data for undeveloped resources;
(b)   preparation and implementation of a corporate plan including:
(i)   a program of joint venturing and divestitures;
(ii)  phase down plans for mines with depleting resources;
(iii)  studies to improve efficiency; and
(iv)   a manpower and training plan;
(c)   hiring of technical specialists; and
(d)   training of Zambian staff to progressively fill, in due course,
the technical specialist positions.
(B) Support to the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
(MMMD) for
(a)   preparation of a new mining act and mining fiscal regime,
strengthening for MMMD and assistance to small scale minerals;
(b)   production of improved geological and mining title data banks and
maps; and
(c)   provision of assaying equipment for MMMD laboratory.
(C) Support to Maamba Collieries for
(a)   identification and implementation of cost saving measures;
(b)   preparation of a long term strategy.
The objectives as set out in the President's Report go well beyond the
scope of activities included in the project. The project objectives de facto were more
limited and specific. Fundamentally, the aim of the project was to provide technical
assistance:
(a)   to assist ZCCM to improve its operations, lower its costs, joint
venture its undeveloped copper resources and divest non-mining
assets;
(b)   to assist MMMD to create an attractive investment environment for
new private sector mining investment and to design an institutional
strengthening program for MMMD; and



8
(c)   to assist Maamba Collieries to reduce costs and prepare a long run
strategy.
The technical assistance was provided largely through three consulting
contracts, each of which was awarded following World Bank international competitive
bidding procedures. The largest contract (US$17 million approx.) was for assistance to
ZCCM and included all major subcomponents - namely preparation of geological data,
preparation and implementation of a corporate plan, provision of technical specifications
and training. The assistance to MMMD and to Maamba Collieries was much smaller
(contract values US$2.9 million and US$0.7 million respectively).
The Evolution of Government Policy regarding ZCCM and Associated
Bank Assistance.   The Government was the majority shareholder in ZCCM. The
Government's policy at the time of the project was to improve the efficiency of ZCCM's
existing operations and to joint venture ZCCM's undeveloped copper resources and
divest ZCCM's non-mining activities. Subsequently, a new government was elected.
During 1992 the new Government decided to embark on an extensive privatization policy
for parastatal companies. In the 1993 Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
(PIRC II) (Credit 2523-ZA), the Government expressed its commitment in the Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) to privatize ZCCM's existing operations, but there was no
agreement on the timing or process. A study of privatization options was carried out in
1994 under the associated PIRCTA (Credit 2406-ZA). While the study did not result in a
firm decision, it confirmed that privatization was a potentially attractive option and it
helped clarify the issues to be resolved and the different possible privatization options.
Subsequently, in 1995 the Government made a further commitment in the
Economic Recovery and Investment Project (ERIP) (Credit 2764-ZA) LDP with regard to
the implementation of the privatizatiori decision. With support from the associated
ERIPTA (Credit 2875-ZA), the Governrent hired an investment bank and international
lawyers who, as a first stage, designed the privatization process which was endorsed by
the Cabinet, the ZCCM Board, the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) Board and the
ZCCM minority shareholders representatives (including Anglo American Mining
Company Ltd.). Subsequently, the investment bank and international lawyers have
assisted ZPA and ZCCM in implementing the privatization. Several packages were
privatized in 1997 including the joint venturing of two major undeveloped copper
deposits - Konkola North and Konkola Deep - but the process is not yet complete.
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
There are mixed results for achievement of project objectives for the three
components. For ZCCM, the objectives were not achieved. For MMMD, the objectives
were largely achieved. For Maamba Collieries, the objectives were partially achieved.



9
ZCCM.   While all of the major sub-components for ZCCM  were
completed, the critical objectives of improving efficiency and reducing costs were not
realized. ZCCM and its consultants undertook extensive work to prepare a corporate plan
as the basis for lowering its costs and improving its operations. Two reports were
prepared, an Interim Short Term Plan for FY 93/94-95/96 (ISTP) report dated February
1994 and a Ten Year Corporate Plan - Draft No. 2 Report dated June 1994. The ISTP
presented a program for ZCCM to increase production from 399,700 tons in 1993/94 to
456,600 tons in 1995/96. Bank staff supervising the project had strong reservations at
that time that ZCCM's operational plan would not be adequate to achieve the objectives.
These concerns were clearly communicated to ZCCM and the Government (e.g. letter
dated June 19, 1994 from WB Country Director to Zambian Minister of Finance).
However, no significant changes were made by ZCCM's management to the ISTP.
ZCCM was unable to implement the ISTP successfully. Instead both production and
efficiency declined and in 1995/96 production was only 341,000 tons of copper compared
with the target of 456,600 tons - a shortfall of 25%.
ZCCM - Annual Production and Net Income FY 1993-97.
92/93   93/94   94/95  95/96  96/97
Copper produced ('000 tons)   432    392    351    341        307
Net Income (US$m)              183   (174)      1   (31)    (313)
ZCCM's situation reached crisis conditions in 1995 and the company was in
danger of insolvency. The Government as majority shareholder then requested the Bank
to assist in analyzing ZCCM's difficulties and identifying possible solutions. The Bank
responded with a rapid, in-depth review of ZCCM which revealed that instead of helping
to identify the problems so that the situation could be improved, the ISTP corporate plan
over-estimated the production that could be achieved and deflected attention from
underlying problems which included lack of attention to cost reduction and cost
competitiveness, poor capital allocation, ineffective management and poor optimization
and priority setting. The plan did not include any corporately defined cost reduction
mechanisms, nor management directives on cost reduction implementation. ZCCM used
a bottom up budgeting process, rather than a top down management and planning
mechanism. As a result of ZCCM's bottom-up budgeting approach, large amounts of
capital were directed to improving its smelting operations at a time when the greatest
need for capital was in the mines. And even where large amounts of capital were
provided to the mines, such as for Baluba and Mufulira, implementation difficulties
resulted in poor returns on the money invested. Based on the findings of the World Bank
Review Team, ZCCM moved promptly to design and implement an Emergency Action
Program in FY95/96 and FY96/97 which then enabled ZCCM to survive. Given the need
to take emergency measures to address the immediate crisis and given the Government



10
decision to privatize ZCCM, ZCCM and its consultants did not complete the Ten Year
Plan.
With regard to undevelopecl copper reserves and non-mining assets, even
though ZCCM had several attractive, undeveloped copper deposits such as Konkola Deep
and Konkola North, ZCCM only attempted to joint-venture/sell one property under the
project - a closed mine at Chambishi, for which there were no takers. Subsequently,
Konkola Deep, Konkola North and Chambishi have been joint ventured and privatized as
part of the overall ZCCM privatization. Z('CM's non-mining assets have been privatized
by ZPA as part of the overall parastatal privatization program. As of mid 1998 ZCCM
was in the latter stages of being privatized and private investors are starting to operate
some of the mines and are undertaking exploration and feasibility work in preparation for
the possible, future development of undeveloped copper resources. Once the ZCCM
privatization is complete, private companies will take over operations and management of
the mines and will also make the decisions on phasing out older mines when they are no
longer viable.
MMMD. With regard to tho support for MMMD, considerable progress
has been achieved. The project supported the development of a new mining code and
fiscal regime that is conducive to private investment. This has helped facilitate an
upsurge of exploration in Zambia by private investors, including many international
mining companies, and was a critical precondition for the privatization of ZCCM which
has been taking place in the past two years. Under the project, sound licensing and fiscal
arrangements have been put in place to support private mining investment. The mining
title system is working well and new geological data bases and maps have been prepared
and published. Studies were undertaken to restructure and strengthen MMMD and to
design a plan to help improve gemstone mnines. Assistance is being provided under the
ERIPTA so that the MMMD can start to implement the results of the studies, including
the establishment of regional mine offices with the aim of providing greater assistance to
gemstone mines and other small and medium mining operations. New mining
environmental regulations have been also been prepared and issued.
Maamba Collieries. The preparation of a long-term strategy for Maamba
Collieries concluded that the company was not viable as a parastatal operation. The
results of the study helped avoid a possible situation in which government might have
heavily subsidized Maamba. Instead it helped pave the way for Government to consider
other possible options, and the Government decided to offer Maamba for privatization to
see if a private sector investor could improve the operations so that the mine could
continue to operate. Subsequently a bid has been accepted.
C.   Major Factors Affecting The Project
Factors Not Subject to Government Control. The major factor not subject
to Government control was the world copper price. During the period of project
implementation, copper prices dropped sharply in 1993 which was an important



11
contributing factor to ZCCM's difficulties in 1993 and 1994. However, the ISTP
indicated that ZCCM should have been able to make a profit at a copper price of US$
US$0.87 per lb - thus the drop in copper prices was only one factor at work. Indeed,
copper prices have since improved whereas ZCCM has remained in a very difficult and
worsening financial position because the improvement in efficiency and productivity
aimed for under the project was not realized.
AnnualAverage LME - World Copper Price 1991-97.
(US $ per lb.)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  1996   1997
1.06   1.03   0.87   1.05   1.33   1.04   1.03
Source. Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, World Bank.
Factors Subject to Government Control - ZCCM related. There were two
main factors subject to Government control regarding the ZCCM component. The first
important factor subject to Govemment control was the retention of cash and foreign
exchange by ZCCM for operating and capital expenditures. ZCCM has traditionally
provided 90% of the foreign exchange for the economy. ZCCM's foreign exchange
earnings must not only serve ZCCM's operating, capital expenditure and debt service
needs but also the needs of the Government and the rest of the economy. Given the
urgent needs for foreign exchange for other sectors in the economy, there was not enough
available to meet all of ZCCM's needs and ZCCM had become increasingly
undercapitalized over the past decade. However, as ZCCM encountered financial
difficulties in FY94 and FY95, Government progressively reduced transfers from ZCCM
in order to assist ZCCM's situation. A second factor under government control was the
exchange rate. In 1993 a significant appreciation of the Kwacha took place which had the
effect of increasing ZCCM's operating costs at a time when international copper prices
were declining thereby increasing the financial squeeze on ZCCM.
Factors Subject to Government Control - MMMD  related.  The
Government directly controls annual operational and capital budgets for MMMD.
Throughout the period of the project, the Government has been in a very tight overall
budget situation and most ministries have been working within strict budget limits.
Government supported implementation of the project by making counterpart funds
available to MMMD. But while MMMD has made good progress overall, its
performance more recently has been constrained by lack of and late release of budgetary
funds. The continuation of "appropriation in aid" will be very important to helping
ensure that funds are available to MMMD on a timely basis to fulfill its work program.
Given the progress made under the project, IDA has provided further support for MMMD
under the ERIPTA operation which includes components for: (a) geological data



12
acquisition; (b) data dissemination and investment promotion; and (c) institutional
strengthening.
Factors Under the Implementing Agency Control. ZCCM was the
implementing agency for the program. The main factor under ZCCM's control was the
design and implementation of the Interim Short Term Corporate Plan and the joint
venturing of undeveloped copper deposits. As noted earlier, ZCCM's performance did
not improve but deteriorated to near insolvency and only one property was offered
unsuccessfully for sale/joint venture.
D.    Project Sustainability
The assistance under the project for ZCCM was not successful in restoring
ZCCM to profitability and increasing its efficiency, let alone sustaining these results.
The assistance for MMMD was successful in establishing an attractive legal, regulatory
and fiscal environment for private sector investment in mining. The assistance for
Mamba Collieries was partially successful in that it laid the basis for the decision to
privatize Mamba. While the results of the project are very mixed, it should be noted that
the outlook for long term sustainability of the mining sector is positive. There has been a
big upsurge in exploration by private mining companies over the past two years. The
Government, with the support of the Bank under the ERIPTA, has made substantial
progress on the privatization of ZCCM and new investors are now participating in the
mining sector. These companies will bring strong financial capacity as well as strong
management and technical capability to the sector.' There are good prospects that the
performance of the existing operations will improve and that feasibility work will be
completed for new projects such as Konkola North and Konkola Deep and that they will
be successfully implemented. The new mining code and fiscal regime, together with the
institutional strengthening of MMMD create a sound enabling environment for future
private investment in mining and the new Mining Environmental Regulations should help
ensure that both existing and new mining investment and operations are environmentally
and socially sustainable.
E.    Bank Performance
The Bank's performance is considered to be satisfactory in terms of both
the preparation and implementation of the project. The project was designed and
prepared in 1990/91 as the first TA operation after the government embarked on
structural adjustment. While the project did not support full privatization of ZCCM, it
did establish a new vision for the sector, that included joint venturing of undeveloped
copper resources with private mining companies.
Operational plans are not available from private investors. A 5-year operational plan was prepared by
ZCCM which gives an indication of what might have been expected had ZCCM become an efficient
company.



13
As the Government's policy towards ZCCM evolved, the Bank used the
same staff to supervise the Mining Sector TA, the PIRCTA, the ERIP and the ERIPTA so
that there was a full complimentarity of the four operations. In practice, from mid 1995
onwards the Mining Sector TA and the ERIPTA were always supervised together. When
ZCCM's performance had deteriorated to the point that it threatened to undermine both
Zambia's economic recovery and the proposed privatization, at the request of the
Government, Bank staff worked rapidly and intensively with ZCCM in 1996 to prepare
an Emergency Action Program to support the survival of ZCCM until privatization could
be accomplished. To support prompt and effective implementation of the Emergency
Action Plan, funds were made available under this project to support the hiring of
additional technical specialists (beyond those originally envisaged under the project) to
fill gaps and strengthen ZCCM's management at the mining operations. Towards the end
of the project, Bank staff also supported ZCCM in using some of the remaining funds to
prepare end-of-mine life environmental plans which were required under the new Mining
Law and were also prerequisites for completing the privatization transactions.
F.    Borrower Performance
ZCCM was the implementing agent for the overall work and was the
major beneficiary of the project. The results were not satisfactory in terms of the
deterioration of ZCCM's operating performance and the drain it became on Government
energies and resources. ZCCM's management proved unable to manage the company
effectively and were unresponsive to warning signals that the ISTP was not working as
expected. The working relationship between ZCCM, MMMD and Bank staff was
generally constructive and for the most part procurement for all components went
smoothly. While some implementation delays occurred, the project closed on time with
the credit almost fully disbursed. Some cost savings occurred during the project with the
result that savings available towards the end of the project were used by ZCCM to hire
additional technical specialists and to prepare end-of-mine life plans required under the
new Mining Law.
The Government's performance in the preparation and implementation of
the project is considered satisfactory. MMMD performed well in the implementation of
their component and there was a close working relationship between the government
officials and Bank staff regarding the mining sector. The Government kept the Bank
fully informed as its policy towards ZCCM evolved from joint-venturing of undeveloped
copper resources to the privatization of all of ZCCM's operations and assets. Not
surprisingly there were divided views in Zambia regarding privatization in general and
the privatization of ZCCM in particular, with strong opposition from vested interests
within the state holding company ZIMCO which caused progress to be slower than might



14
have been desirable. As noted in the ICR for the PIRC operations 2 "In the PIRC II LDP,
the Government committed itself to privatize ZCCM.  However, other than a
commitment to review the appropriate privatization options, there was no agreement on
follow-up actions. Failure to deal more explicitly with the problems of ZCCM at this
stage in the adjustment process has proven to be a serious problem and may have been a
major contributing factor to slow growtl."
G.   Assessment of Outcome
The assessment of the outcome is complicated because of the "shifting
goalposts" within the sector associated with subsequent operations (i.e. the PIRC and
ERIP operations) and the decision to privatize ZCCM. Given this caveat, the outcome
for the mining sector TA can be considered in terms of two criteria. First, did the project
achieve its objectives? Second, how sustainable is it likely to be? As discussed in
Section B, the project has largely achieved its objectives regarding MMMD and the new
mining code and fiscal regime but did not achieve its objectives regarding ZCCM. Given
that ZCCM was by far the largest component of the project, the overall outcome of the
project is considered unsatisfactory. It should however be noted that the present outlook
for the mining sector is positive as a result of the change in strategy to privatize ZCCM,
and provided that this strategy is fully implemented. As a result of the ongoing ZCCM
privatization activities and the work with MMMD to establish a mining sector legal and
fiscal framework that is conducive to private investment, private investors will take the
lead in the development of new copper mines and private management should ensure that
depleted mines are closed when no longer viable.
H.   Future Operations
While no future operations are presently expected, performance of the
mining sector will remain a key issue for Zambia's economic performance for the future.
The Bank will continue to monitor the sector's performance and, if required, may
consider support to the Government to ensure that sector administration and regulation is
fully adequate in the light of performance of the private sector organizations.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
Important lessons can be identified from the Mining Sector TA as follows.
Flexibility needs to be built into the design of TA operations in order for the operation
to be able to respond to changing government policy decisions/country circumstances.
In the case of this project, the emphasis shifted from support to ZCCM to improve its
2  Para 32, ICR, PIRC I (Credit 2405-ZA) and PIRC II (Credit 2523-ZA) Report 16192-ZA, December
30, 1996.



15
operations to support to ZCCM to undertake key preparatory steps necessary for its
privatization.
*  The design of a satisfactory regulatory and legal framework to support private sector
investment and operation is a key prerequisite to implementation of privatization and
private sector development initiatives. In the case of this project, the establishment of
the new mining code, mining fiscal regime and environmental regulations was a key
factor for a resurgence in exploration by international mining companies that has
taken place in Zambia in the past few years and was also a pre-requisite to the ZCCM
and Maamba privatization activities.
*  The articulation of clear policies, developed with strong input from the various
stakeholders in the sector, can contribute to broad based ownership of sector reform
and help build a strong consensus among different parties to support the
implementation of reform initiatives. In the case of this project, the Mining Sector
TA Project included an extensive consultation process for the preparation of the new
mining law and associated mining environmental regulations which built strong
support for the opening up of the sector to private investment.
*  A TA operation can be an important starting point for the process of sector reform,
even though the reform program may not be fully developed. In the case of this
project, the Mining Sector TA provided the starting point for the process of mining
sector reform in Zambia. Subsequently PIRC II, the PIRCTA, the ERIP and the
ERIPTA operations broadened and deepened the reform effort to support the
privatization of both ZCCM and Maamba. With hindsight it could be argued that
privatization of ZCCM should have been an objective of the Mining Sector TA;
however, the reality is that this was not politically feasible in 1991.
*  A clear separation of different objectives and associated components in a TA project
can allow for partial successes. In the case of this project the objectives for regulatory
reform were well achieved by the MMMD component. In contrast the objective of
improving sector performance by strengthening ZCCM was not achieved.
*  The new organizational structure, of a Country Director supported by a Country
Team, enabled a team to be formed that could operate effectively across institutional
boundaries. In the case of this project, the country team approach was adopted for
Zambia in early 1994 and helped facilitate the formation of a team of staff from
different vice presidencies, that worked in a fully coordinated manner on mining
sector reform in Zambia through five different operations.



16
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not
applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies              E
Financial Objectives
Institutional development    E
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                j2
Public sector management
Private sector development
B. Project sustainability       Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank performance             Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactory
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                     li
Supervision
D. Borrower performance         Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfac-    Highly
satisfactory               tory      unsatisfac-
tory



18
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title                        Purpose                Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Coal Engineering Credit       Rehabilitation of Maamba Collieries   1983   Closed
(Credit 1333- ZA)                Limited.
2. Export Rehabilitation and     Support for rehabilitation of ZCCM and  1984   Closed
Diversification Credit (Credit 2391-   diversification away from copper.
ZA)
Following Operations
1. Privatization and Industrial  Letter of Development Policy          1993   Closed
Recovery II Credit (PIRC II) (Credit  commitment to ZCCM privatization.
2523-ZA)
2. PIRCTA (Credit 2406 ZA)       Provided financing for initial ZCCM    1994   Closed
privatization study
3. Economic Recovery and         Letter of LDevelopment Policy set Action  1996    Closed
Investment Promotion (ERIP)      Plan for ZCCM privatization
(Credit 2764-ZA)
4. ERIPTA (Credit 2875 ZA)       Provided financing for investment bank  1996
and legal advisors to implement ZCCM
privatization.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in the project cycle        Date planned      Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     10/90            10/90
Preparation                                                     12/90
Appraisal                                      01/91            01/91
Negotiations                                   04/91            05/91
Board Presentation                             05/91          06/13/91
Signing                                  ___                  07/24/91
Effectiveness                                  08/91          02/05/92
First tranche release                          N/A              N/A
Mid-term review                                N/A              N/A
Second tranche release                         N/A              N/A
Project completion                            12/31/97         12/31/97
Credit Closing                               06/30/97         06/30/97



19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY
92    93    94    95    96    97    98
Appraisal estimate        2.1   8.1  14.1  20.1  21.0  21.0  21.0
Actual                    1.0   2.9   9.0  15.4  19.7  23.7  23.7
Actual as % of estimate   48    36    64    77    94   113   113
Date of final disbursement                 18 August 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Type of Indicator              Estimated                    Actual
I. Key operating indicators in        None
SAR/Presidents Report
II. Modified Indicators (if           None
applicable)
III. Modified Indicators for          None
future operation (if applicable)
Note: Key Indicators were not identified in the President's Report as they were not
required as part of project appraisal at the time.



'20
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                   Purpose             Date        Impact of study
A. ZCCM
Component
1. Corporate       Assess the strategy for the     Mar Comprehensive work
Structural         strengthening of ZCCM. Design     93  program designed and
Reorganisation     work program                          agreed with IDA
Project
2. Geology,        Review the past geological work  Feb Improved knowledge of the
Reserves and       performed by ZCCM and use it      93  reserves and resources,
Resources          to determine the quantity and         improved geological
quality of developed ore reserves    procedures at ZCCM
and resources
3. Mine Operations  Identify mines with the best    Apr Identified the need to
and Planning       potential for the near term,revise  93 prepare realistic production
development, production and cost     estimates, introduce new
data, assess on-going planning       mining methods and
requirements                          improve performance. New
production schedules
prepared and training
undertaken
4. Beneficiation,  Establish benchmarks for plants  Mar Identified operating
Smelting and       and identify opportunities to     93 procedures as major problem
Refining           improve performance                   with the mineral processing
aspects of ZCCM.
Extensive training of
operators undertaken
5. Finance and     Assess possibilities to restructure    May Financial procedures and
Accounting         balance sheet,enhance the budget  93  accounting systems
process, enhance cost analysis,       modified. Improved
review training programs              understanding of costs
achieved. Training
undertaken
6. Human Resources Review policies and practices,    Jul 93  Lead to strengthening of
identify needed changes, assess      operational management
skills of work force and prepare
implementation plan
7. Training        Review approaches to needs     Jun 93  Identified needs for
assessment, review artisanal         additional training
mining training schemes



21
8. Materials       Identify steps that could be taken   Jul 93  Resulted in major overhaul
Management         to improve efficiency of materials     of materials management
Systems            management                             system
9. Marketing       Improve the effectiveness and   Jun 93 New marketing systems
efficiency of the ZCCM                implemented
marketing
10. Environmental   Recommend a corporate            Feb  Improved environmental
Review              environmental strategy, identify  93  assessment and management
environmental protection              at ZCCM
measures that could have a
significant impact on ZCCM
I costs                        I_I



22
B. MMMD
Component
1. Mining Policy   Assist Government to formalize   Dec GOZ adopted private sector
Study              new policies for the mining       93  orieted policies
sector
2. Mineral         Assess technology needed to      Sep A new sector management
Inventory, Mining   implement the mineral inventory,  93  system was put in place,
Title, and Statistics   operate the mining title registry  personel were trained and
Database           and maintain statistical database.    equipment purchased
Prepare equipment specifications
3. Scoping Report   Identify physical and training  Aug  Personel were trained and
on Laboratory      needs to refurbish the laboratory  93  the laboratory refurbished
Needs
4. Structure,      Assess the structure and staff of  Dec Limited impact as this
Organisation and   MMMD, design a new                93  component overlapped with
Staffing of MMMD   organisational structure and          broader civil service reform
evaluate staff qualifications and     which took priority
L=:experience.
5. Draft Mines and   Prepare a draft act for discussion  Feb  This draft formed the basis
Minerals Act       with all interested stake-holders  94  of the new Mines and
Minerals Act enacted during
the project
6. Review of Mines  Prepare comments on proposed    Mar Alerted GOZ to the non-
and Minerals       act to ensure international       94 competitiveness of the
Investment Act     competitiveness                       proposed act which was
withdrawn
7. Mineral         Promote investment opportunities    Apr Distributed at conferences.
Investment         in Zambian mining sector          94 Attracted investment to
Opportunities in                                         Zambia
Zambia
8. Draft Model     Make available to MMMD a         May  Model Agreement is
Mining             draft agreement for mineral       94  available to MMMD
Development        sector investments
Agreement
9. Small Scale     Countrywide assessment of all    Feb  The first complete
Mining Study:      aspects of small scale mining     94  assessment of the scope and
Preliminary Report                                       nature of small scale mning
in Zambia was completed.
Reports 11-20 were based
on this study
10. Small Scale    Supplement to Report 9           Apr Broadened the scope of
Mining Study:                                        94  Report 9
Addendum                                                I



23
11. Investment                                     Nov These studies (Reports 11-
Promotion material                                   94 20) provided valuable input
for subsequent mining sector
support (provided under the
ERIPTA) by identifying
sectoral needs, preparing
budgets and suggesting
implementation modalities.
12. Regional Mines                                 Nov  Being implemented.
Bureaux                                              94
13. Gemstone                                       Nov  Being implemented
Trading                                              94
Arrangements -
14. Educational                                    Nov  Being implemented
Seminars and                                         94
Roadshows
15.Beacon Survey                                   Nov  Being implemented
Procedures and                                       94
Security
16. Equipment                                      Nov  Being implemented
Contracting                                          94
Promotion
17. Self-help                                      Nov  Being implemented
Nationwide Library                                   94
18. Standard                                       Nov  Being implemented
Financing                                            94
Agreement
19. Government-                                    Nov  Being implemented
held Data Release                                    94
20. Industry                                       Nov  Being implemented
Representation and                                   94
Information
Exchange
21. Final Report:    Summarized all the TA to      Nov  Showed work program to
Mining Sector TA    MMMD                             95 have been completed
satisfactorily and under
budget
22. Geological     Augment and improve the        93-95  22 new geological maps and
Maps               geological data-base                  4 new structural geology
maps published



24
C. Maamba
Collieries Limited
(M-C-L) T1
1. Assessment of    Review all aspects of the     Jul 93  MCL was found to have
Coal Mining        operation and make                    limited potential to be a
Operations         recommendations for the future        viable enterprise. The
company was ultimately
privatized



25
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
Item             Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs            costs   costs
A. ZCCM
Management Consultancy         1.0     5.9      6.9     1.0    17.0    18.0
Specialist Hiring              0.5     6.5      7.0     0.5      3.0     3.5
Staff Training                 0.5     2.6     3.1      0.5              0.5
Sub-total    2.0    15.0    17.0      2.0    20.0    22.0
B. MMMD
Management Consultancy         0.1     0.8      0.9     0.1      1.7     1.8
Staff training                 0.1     0.3      0.4     0.1      0.3     0.4
Data Banks                     0.1     0.5      0.6     0.1      0.5     0.6
Geological Maps                0.2     0.8      1.0     0.2      0.8     1.0
Assaying Equipment             0.0     0.1      0.1     0.0      0.1     0.1
Sub-total    0.5     2.5      3.0     0.5      3.0      3.5
C. Maamba Collieries
Management Consultancy         0.0     0.4      0.4     0.0      0.4     0.4
Technical Assistance           0.1     0.3      0.4     0.1      0.3     0.4
Sub-total    0.1      0.7     0.8     0.1      0.7      0.8
TOTAL                          2.6    18.2    20.8      2.6    23.7    26.3
Contingencies                  0.4     2.8      3.2     0.0      0.0     0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST             3.0    21.0    24.0      2.6    23.7    26.3
* Included in management consultancy.
It should be noted: (i) that the management consultancy contract also included specialist
hiring and staff training services; and (ii) total actual project costs in US dollar terms
exceed the appraisal estimate due to strengthening of the SDR against the US dollar.



26
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
Source           Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs            costs   costs
IDA                          0.0    21.0    21.0       0.0    23.7    23.7
ZCCM                         2.3      0.0      2.3     2.0      0.0      2.0
Government                   0.6      0.0      0.6     0.5      0.0      0.5
Maamba Collieries            0.1      0.0      0.1     0.1      0.0      0.1
Total                        3.0    21.0    24.0       2.6    23.7    26.3
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not estimated for this project.



27
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section  Covenant  Present  Original  Revised                                  Description of covenant                    Comments
ment                       type          status       fulfill-      fulfill-
ment         ment
date         date
Credit
Agree-
ment
3.01 (b)         2                                                The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of   Completed
the Credit an amount not exceeding SDR
12,760,000 to ZCCM under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ZCCM, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the
Association whichi shall include: (i) repayment
over a term of 10 years, includinig 3 years grace;
(ii) a rate of interest of eight point five percent
(8.5%) per annum on the principal withdrawni and
outstanding; and (iii) ZCCM to bear the foreign
exchange risk.
3.01 (c)                                                          The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of   Completed
the Credit an amount not exceeding SDR 592,000
to Maamba Collieries under a subsidiary loain
agreement to be cistered into between tlle
Borrower aiid Maamba Collieries, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which slsall include: (i)
repayment over a term of 10 years, including 3
years grace; (ii) a rate of interest of eight point
five percent (8.5%) per annum on the principal
withdrawn and outstandiisg; and (iii) Maamba
Collieries to bear the foreign exchanige risk.
3.06 (a)         3             C          12/31/92                The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Dec.    Conmpleted
and (b)                                   12/31/93                31,1992 submit to IDA for review and consnsents
an action program to support the development of
small scale minling; and not later than Dec. 31,
1993, implemenit said action progranm, taking into
account the Associations views.
3.07 (a)         3             C                                   The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries: to   Conmpleted
carry out a study, Linder terms of reference acc
eptable to the Association, on the long term
outlook for its operations, includiisg measures to
reduce foreign exclsange requirements.
3.07 (b)         3            CD          12/31/92      07/93      The Borrower shall cause Maamsba Collieries: to,  Completed
not later than Decenmber 31, 1992, submit to the
Association for comments the findinigs of said
study.
3.07 (c)         3             C          06/30/94                The Borrower sliall cause Maamba Collieries: to,  Partially completed -
not later than Junie 30, 1994. implemenit the  Company has been
findings of the study, taking into account the  privatized
Association's views.
3.08           3             CP         12/31/92                 The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decensber   Delays caused by
12/31/93                31 1992, submit to the Association for review a    overall civil service
draft staffing plan for its Ministry of Mines; aisd   reform review. Plan
(b) not I ater than December 31, 1993, implement   completed in 1993
said staffing plan taking into account thse   but not fully
Association's views..                         implemented.
9             C                                  Without limitation or restriction on its other  Limited compliance
reporting requirements ulider the Gneral
Conditions aild this Agreement the Borrower
shall, with etfect from the first qLiarter of 1992,



28
submit quarterly progress reports to the
Association for its review on thc iiiplenientation
of Parts A and B of the Project.
4.01 (a)          1              C                                     The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be         In compliance
maintained records and accotnts adequate to
reflect in accordancc with consistenltly
maintained sound accountinig practices the
I_expenditures financed out of the Credit.
4.01 (b)          I             CD                                     The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and       Audit reports were
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this     submitted but
Section including those for the-Special Account    insufficient detail
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistenitly
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (ii) furnishi to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months atter the eisd of such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; aisd
(iii) furnish to the Association SUCII other
information concerning such records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall reasonably request from tihe to time.
4.01 (c)          I              C                                     The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries to    Completed
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sounid accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of Maamba
Collieries.
4.01 (d)          I              CP                                     The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries to:    Partial compliance
(i) have its records, accounts and finalicial
statements for each i'scal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditinlg principles
applied by independenit auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) ftinishi to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each suchI year (A)
certified copies of its financial statementsfor each
year as so audited, and (B) the report of each
audit shall be of such scope and in suLCs detail as
the Association may have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to thc Association such other
information concerning such records, accounts.
financial statemenits and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to tinie request.



29
4.01 (e)        I           C                                    For all expenditures with respect to which   Records kept by
withdrawals from the Credit Account      ZCCM
were made on the basis of statements of
cxpcnditures, the Borrower shall and shall
cause Maamba Collieries to: (i) maintain
or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records
and accounts reflecting suci
expenditures; (ii) ensure that all records
evidencing such expenditures are retained
until ay least one year after the
Association has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made; and (iii) enable the Association's
._________            _____________    _____________  representatives to  examine such  records.
Project
Agree-
ment
3.01          5           C                                    ZCCM shall carry on its operations and    Complied with
conduct its atfairs in accordance with   within the
sound administrative, technical and      limitations of
mining practices under the supervision of   available staff.
qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate
tnmibers.
3.02          5           CP                                   ZCCM shall at all times operate and       Complied with,
maintain its plaint, machinery, equipment   within the
and other property, and from time to time.  limitations of
promptly as needed, make all neccessary    available
repairs and renewals thereof, all in     resources.
accordance with sound engineering,
financial, technical and mining practices.
3.03          13          C                                    ZCCM shall take out and maintain with     Completed
responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
3.04 (a)        5          CD         12/31/92      06/30/93    ZCCM shall not later than December 31.   Plan submitted
1992, submit to the Association for      in June 1993.
review and comment a draft corporate
plan including perlbrmiaice targets,
proposals for phasing down existing
mines and measures to strengtheni its
finanicial structure.
3.04 (b)        5          CP           1994                     ZCCM shall implemenit the corporate       Attempts to
plan, satisfactory to the Association    implemeint the
begiining with ZCCM's fiscal year 1994.  plan were only
partially
successfull.
3.04 (c)        5           C         Annual                     ZCCM shall not later than December 31     Discussion of
of each fiscal year discuss with the     the corporate
Association the implementation of the    plan was a
corporate plan for the following fiscal  continuous
year.                                    process.
3.05          5           CP        12/31/92                   ZCCM shall: (a) not later than December   The project
06/30/95                   31, 1992, submit to the Association for  supported an
review and comments its proposals for (i)  on-going
joint venturing or selinig its under-     process of
utilized or unused assets relating to    preparing
mining activities; (ii) rationalizing and  ZCCM for asset
divesting all non-mining assets; (iii)   divestiture



30
improvinig the pcrformance of'          culminating in
procurement, matcrials managemenit and    the privatisation
mainitenance functions; and (b) not later    process of
than June 30, 1995, implement said       1996-97.
proposals, takinig into account the views
of tile Association.
3.06          5          CP         12/31/92      07/31/93    ZCCM shall: (a) not later than December   Reports
12131/95                  31, 1992, submit to the Association for  submitted late
review and comments a manpower and      in July 1993.
training program for the period 1993-    Implementation
1995; and (b) taking into account the   limited.
Associations vicws, implement said
program and complete it not later than
)December 31, 1995.
3.07          9           C                                   ZCCM shall, with effect from the first   Limited
quarter of 1992 submit to the Association   compliance
for its review quarterly progress reports
on the implementation of Part C of the
Project.
4.01 (a)        I           C                                   ZCCM shall maintain records and          Completed
accounts adequate to retlect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
4.01          1           C                                   ZCCM shall: (i) have its records,        Completed
- accounts and finanicial statements for each
liscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
coisistenitly applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
lurnlishi to the Association as soon as
possible but in any case not later than six
months atler the end of each such year
(A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited.
and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) fumish to the
Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit
thereot; as the Association shall from
time ti time reasonably request.



31
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of the      Planned               Revised               Actual
proiect cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$
Preparation                                                 23.0    41,950
to ADpraisal
Appraisal                                                  20.0    43.,832
Negotiations                                                 29.3    70,834
thro'Board
Approval
Supervision                                                108.4    2
Completion                                                   5.0      1.449
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of   Month  Number  Days   Specialized   Implemen-   Develop-    Types of
project     /       of      in    staff skills    tation     obiectives   problems
cycle     vear   persons  field   represented     status
Through
aPPraisal
11/90     1       8        Econ
Appraisal
thro' Board
approval
01/91     4       18    Econ, Econ,
Enn. Eng
Supervision
09/91     2       15     Econ. Geol
03/92     3       14    Econ, Geol,
En_
06/93     1       7        Geol           2           2
10/93     2       12     Geol. FA         2           2
02/94     1       7        Geol           2           2
03/94     2       10      Geol, FA        2           2
03/95     2       10    Geol. Econ        S           S
07/95     1       4        Econ          n.r.        n.r.
11/95     5       10     Econ, FA,       n.r.        n.r.
Eng,Eng.Met
07/96     1       4        Econ          n.r.        n.r.



32
01/97        4         14    Econ, FA,Eng,           n.r.           n.r.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _E n g
04/97        1         10          Econ              n.r.           n.r.
Completion   02/98           2          2       Econ; PSD            n.r.            n.r.
_ _ __ __spec
n.r. - not rated (joint supervision missions with ERIPTA and ZCCM privatization tasks)



33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2269-ZA)
APPENDIX A
Completion Mission Aide-Memoire



34
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIONiNMISSION
AIDE  - MEMOIR
1.    Introduction
A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. John Strongrnan (Mining
Advisor) and Emile B. Sawaya ( Principal Private Sector Development Specialist)
visited Zambia between February 23 and March 3 1998 to discuss and finalize the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mining Sector Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 2269-ZA). During this period the mission members also
undertook supervision of other World Bank projects including the Economic
Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance Credit ( Credit 2875-ZA).
The mission's conclusions, which are presented below, would be
confirmed by the World Bank following the mission's return to headquarters. The
mission wishes to thank the Government and other officials that assisted its work
during this visit.
2.    The Bank's View on Project Implementation and Operation
The mission presented the views of the Bank regarding the
implementation and operation of the three components of the project which were
(a) assistance to Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines ( ZCCM) Ltd.; (b) assistance
to the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD); and (c) assistance to
Maamba Collieries. The Bank's view is that the results are mixed for the achievement
of the objectives for the three components. For ZCCM, the objectives were not
achieved. For IIMMD, the objectives were largely achieved. For Maamba Collieries,
the objectives were partially achieved.
ZCCM Component The main objective of the project for ZCCM was
to provide assistance to improve ZCCM's operations, lower its costs, joint venture its
undeveloped copper resources and divest its non-mining assets. This was not
achieved. The project provided assistance for the development and implementation of
an Interim Short Term Plan for FY93/94 - FY95/96 designed to achieve these aims.
However, the plan proved overly ambitious and was not successfully implemented.
Instead, ZCCM's production and efficiency declined and little progress was made in
joint venturing undeveloped copper resources or divesting non-mining assets.
MMMD Component. The main objective of the project for MMMD
was to provide assistance to MMMD to create an attractive investment environment
for new private mining exploration ancl investment and to design an institutional
strengthening program for MIMD. This was largely achieved. The project
supported the development of a new mining code and fiscal regime. Exploration and
investment by private companies has increased from about US$2 million in 1990 to
US$40-50 million in 1997. The project has also resulted in the design of an
institutional strengthening program for MMMD, which is being implemented with
support under the ERIPTA.



35
Maamba Collieries. The main objective of the assistance for Maamba
Collieries was to reduce costs and prepare a long run strategy. This was partially
achieved. A long run strategy was prepared which revealed that the company was not
viable. It has subsequently been offered for privatization and sold to a new private
owner.
Sustainability of the Mining sector. Although the support for ZCCM
did not achieve its objectives the outlook for the mining sector is considered positive.
Rather than making renewed efforts to improve the efficiency of ZCCM, the
government changed its strategy and instead decided to privatize all of ZCCM's
operations. The privatization is almost complete and prospects are very positive for a
large increase in investment in the sector. Following the successful establishment of
the new mining code and fiscal regime and the nearly completed privatization of
ZCCM, private investors will take the lead in the development of new copper mines
and the operation and management of the existing mines.
3.    The View of the Borrower and the Implementing Agency on Project
Implementation and Operation
The Ministry of Finance as representative of the Borrower, ZCCM as
the Implementing Agency for the project and MMMD as a beneficiary of the project
and as the lead ministry for the mining sector all concur with the Bank's assessment of
the project that the project objectives were not achieved for ZCCM, were largely
achieved for MMMD and were partially achieved for Maamba Collieries. They also
concur that the outlook for the mining sector is very positive given the successful
establishment of the new mining code and fiscal regime and the nearly completed
privatization of ZCCM. ZCCM provided a brief note with more specific comments
which is attached as an Annex.
4.    Next Steps
Following the return of the mission to headquarters, the draft ICR will be
finalized taking into account minor changes and corrections provided to the mission.
The ICR will then be printed, processed and distributed according to Bank procedures.
March 2, 1998 Lusaka, Zambia



36
signed
For the Government
. ~'
Professor Benjamin Mweene
Secretary to the.Treasury
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Albr KasR'                                       -
Permanent Serctaiy
Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
For ZCCM:'
Dr. Edwin. Koloko
ror the Intemational Developmen Association:
JA  J4
John Strongman
Task Manager, Mining Sector TA
World Bank
Ltsalen Zambia March 2,1998



37
ZAMBIA CONSOLIDATED COPPER MINES LIMITED
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RE-PORT
We have reviewed the draft and largely agree with the conclusions. There are a few
statements and observations pertaining to the performance of ZCCM, which if critically
reviewed, may not result in the same significance attached to them in the report. However,
such review would not materially impact on the final conclusions.
The lack of success of the ZCCM component of the project has been determined from
performance against the projected objectives of the Interim Short Term Plan. The plan was
originally formulated at a time of relative stability but was finalised at a time of extreme
crisis threatening the very survival of ZCCM. Perhaps on reflection, delaying the fialisation
of the plan to enable an assessment of the impact of austerity measures imposed to survive
the crisis may have led to a more realistic assessment of ZCCM's capabilities.
The report recognises that the project took place during a period of social and economic
change in the country and that whilst the privatisation of ZCCM was a current issue, neither
the method or a timetable had been established. Whilst critical of management, managing an
operation of the size and complexity of ZCCM under such circumstances would present a
challenge to any management team, even without the crisis of 1993.
031/98 - 02 March, 1998



38
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBILIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2269-ZA)
APPENDIX B
Borrower's Contribution to the Report



39
ZAMBIA CONSOLIDATED COPPER MINES LIMITED
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BORROWERS CONTRIBUTION TO TEE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Objectives
The overall objective of the contract was to design and
execute a programme leading to maximising the returns to the
economy from minerals. To this effect the programme aims at
ensuring that the resources are exploited and marketed
efficiently.
ZCCM was required to:
a) develop a corporate strategy with clearly defined
objectives so as to maximise the efficiency and thus the
profitability of the operations;
b) prepare a viable divestiture and joint venture strategy;
and,
c) implement the strategies and the required restructuring
measures.
The Political and Economic Environment
The political and economic environment that prevailed during
the execution of the project is summarized below.
* ZCCM had been undercapitalised since it's formation in
1981.
. Copper production was declining but the mineral reserves
were available to reverse the decline.
. The socialist government of Dr. Kenneth Kaunda was replaced
in 1991 by a coalition of opposition groups unified under the
umbrella of the Movement for Multi-Party Democracy.
1



40
. The new Government embarked on a programme of market and
monetary liberalisation and the privatisation of state owned
and controlled enterprises, including ZCCM.
. The country underwesnt a period of hyperinflation.
Major disturbances that negatively impacted on the ability of
the company to maximise the financial benefits which were
expected from the pro:ject were the collapse of the copper
price in September 1993 to an all time real low, and
government monetary policy which led to a 38 per cent
revaluation of the Kwacha during the period of declining
copper prices and depressed revenues
Project Design and Execution
SRI International as lead Consultant of a consortium with
Mineral Resources Deveslopment Inc, Performance Associates,
Arthur Andersen and Steffen, Robertson and Kirsten were
awarded the contract for consulting services. The project
commenced in October 1992 and will end during the first half
of 1997.
The project was designed as a number of Analysis and
Implementation Modules (AIM's) covering the following
activities within ZCCM:
* Geology, Reserves and Resources
* Mine Operations and Planning
* Metallurgical Operations and Planning
* Finance and Accounting
* Human Resources
* Training
* Maintenance Management Systems
* Materials Management Systems
* Marketing
2



41
* Environmental Review
The analysis of each activity drew upon the results of
previous studies and produced approximately 350 specific
recommendations to improve performance. These were reviewed by
ZCCM and most of the accepted recommendations were designated
for implementation by ZCCM staff. With the funding available
for external consultants, a smaller number of recommendations
was designated for implementation by consultants and ZCCM
counterpart staff. Most of the recommendations were actions
that could increase productivity and profitability in the
short term; others had longer term impacts.
In some areas the objectives were to improve performance
company wide, e.g., accounting and finance; supply;
environmental protection, and marketing. In the principal
activities of geology, mining, metallurgical operations and
maintenance engineering, where there is less commonality,
specific operations were targeted to improve grades and
recoveries and reduce operating costs at each unit operation
in the Divisions. In addition, the mining consultants,
assistance focused on proving backfill mechanized mining
methods that would reduce long-term mining costs.
An Interim Short Term Plan (ISTP) was developed nine months
after the initiation of the analysis phase. It incorporated
the anticipated benefits from the implementation programmes.
The Plan laid out the Corporate strategy for the short term
and included the elements of labour reduction, closures, cost
savings and the Government actions to support the plan. The
collapse of the copper price in September 1993 coincided with
the finalisation of the plan. Consequently the plan was
refocused on survival and capital expenditures were
prioritised and severely restricted. The AIM implementation
programs began in February 1994.
Throughout the project, the performance of the Consultants has
been entirely satisfactory. They have maintained a full
commitment to the designated tasks and demonstrated a high
degree of professionalism. They have been flexible when
required and responded promptly to the requirements and
requests of ZCCM.
ZCCM is also highly appreciative of the performance of the
Bank and its officers who have been involved with the project.
The administration has been smooth and trouble free, which can
3



42
be attributed to the long association and familiarity with the
procedures of both entities. In a project of this magnitude,
complexity and time span, it is inevitable that priorities
will change and events will disrupt the planned activities.
The Bank's officers have closely cooperated with the borrower
throughout the evolutionary and implementation phases of the
project and have been receptive and flexible to the borrower's
changing requirements.
Project Results
The major focus of the project was to improve the efficiency
of ZCCMs operations and lower operating costs, and in these
areas the project has had some success. Although the overall
production and unit cost targets established in the ISTP were
not achieved, many of the cost trends between FY1993/94 and
FY1995/96 have been favourable.
The major, unanticipated problems that prevented the Company
from achieving ISTP targets were:
* Unforeseen adverse mineralogy from a major new open pit ore
source at Nchanga, which led to reduced production of both
copper and cobalt and pocr quality of concentrates(see Figure
1).
* Commissioning and operational problems(e.g. persistent
outages of ancillary equipment) at the Nkana smelter, which
led to reduced acid production and restricted acid usage at
the Tailings Leach Plant.
In addition to the unanticipated problems mentioned above, the
underground mining operations failed to achieve the targeted
improvements in stoping and extraction efficiencies. Action
plans for achieving the improvements were not developed and
implemented in a timely fashion. In addition, the Divisions
were overly optimistic concerning their ability to achieve the
required improvements with minimal outside assistance. As a
result the planned contained and finished copper targets were
not achieved(see Figure 2).
The areas of success include:
* The labour force has been trimmed down from approximately
52,000 to 42,000 and senior positions reduced by nearly one
third(see Figure 3). However, austerity measures introduced as
4



43
a result of the low copper prices led to an erosion of real
wages in FY1994/95 (see Figure 4), depressed employee morale,
and the loss of skilled manpower
* The loss-making Kabwe mine was closed down.
* Stores inventories were reduced and managed at lower levels.
* Operating and maintenance stores expenditures, which account
for approximately 50k of total operating costs, were
significantly reduced (see Figures 5 and 7). The cents/pound
costs also declined in spite of production declines (see
Figures 6 and 8).
* The quality and timeliness of financial reporting have
improved.
* Environmental awareness has been raised and a major
commitment has been made to the development of mine closure
plans.
With the recovery of metal prices in 1994, capital spending
increased beyond the severe limits in the ISTP by nearly
US$100 million. However, contrary to the guidelines stated in
the ISTP, most capital was allocated to completing strategic
projects, and only about one-third of the increase went to
replacements (see Figures 9 and 10).
Lessons Learned
1. Management Involvement
Strong, persistent involvement by the company's top management
is necessary to ensure that the many actions described in the
AIMs and ISTP are implemented and sustained. Specific
responsibilities and the authority to implement the actions
need to be assigned and followed-up by periodic reviews of
progress at the highest management level. However, disruptions
in management continuity due to job rotations of GM's and AIM
counterpart teams who formulated the plans made commitment to
implementation more difficult to sustain.
2. Sustainability of Efficiency Improvement Programs (Making
Changes Stick)
Special measures are required to ensure that the efficiency
5



44
improvement programs initiated by the consultant/ZCCM AIM
implementation teams become permanently incorporated into
ZCCM's operating and business procedures. These measures
should include:
* Clear, consistent line management actions that demonstrate
managements' support of the programs and desire to have them
successfully implemented in a timely manner. Examples are
actions to:
- remove roadblocks and barriers and create a positive
environment for program implementation
- visible rewards fcor staff who successfully
implement programs and achieve the desired improvements
* Periodic, ongoing involvement of the consultants to help
resolve problems during implementation and maintain program
momentum.
3. The Company's Ability to Implement Action Programs
ZCCM overestimated its ability to implement the action
programs recommended to improve the efficiency of its
operations and at the same time effectively manage and perform
the day-to-day operations; of the Company. As a result, many of
the efficiency improvement programs designated for
implementation by ZCCM staff alone were delayed or not begun.
On the other hand, ZCCM underestimated its ability to create a
cost conscious culture. Stores price reductions, material
consumption reductions, staff reductions, and labour cost
austerity measures were all introduced more quickly than
anticipated in the ISTP.
4. Efficiency Improvement:s in Underground Mining Operations
The time required and the importance of re-establishing
detailed standard operati ng procedures and sustaining strict
adherence for the core mi.ning activities was not recognized.
There were no implementation assistance resources allocated to
mining operations from project funds.
Additionally, with the exception of Mufulira mine, the
individual mines were not: able to update the detailed
6



45
procedures and influence the day to day workplace work habits.
A better balance of implementation assistance to include the
fundamental mine efficiency improvements was needed and this
did not occur.
ZCCM. 10 January 1997
7



Figure I                                                                                                    Figure2
300,000                                                                                                    400,000
250,000                                                                                                    350,000                                                        ____________
20Nchng, 00Pit Contained Cu, ISTP 3(0n000                                                                      U/gs2nd Mim Contained CuI
200,000                                                      (Toonns)                                      250 ,000__                                                    ISTP (Tonnes)
150,000   -                                                 Nchanga O/Pit Contained Cu,                    200,000 _                                                    t/ground Mines Contained Cia,
Actual (Tonnes)                                                                                             Actual (mronnes)
100.000                                                    El Nhanga 0/Pit Finished Cu,                                                                                al U/ground Minm Finished Cu, Actl
50,000                                     ~~~~~~~~~(Tonnes)                               100                                                           (Toines)
1993194        1994195         1995196                                                                     1993/94          1994/95         1995/96
Flgure 3                                                                                                    Figure 4
:  60,000                                                                                                   250
50,000
200
.  40,000  .    w                                                                                           I   5                      _       -_
30000                                                                                                                                                         _              *Cot oEIabour, AFtual($I)o
20,000                     _             _          Total Labour, Actual (No.) Yr. Endi                     I00   -                    __
0,000                                                                                                        50        _
0                                                                                                         0
1993/94       1994/95       1995/96                                                                         1993/94            1994/95            1995/96
All monetary values are expressed in constant 1993 dollars.



~~~~~ii  Ii'  l - I 
r       _' L  _ .I   I      'a
1  V,   | _    C,    0;pC~~~U 
1  X   T~C--  I 3
H~~~~~~~~~~L



