Do_mmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCLAL USE ONLY
ROMij;1     No. P-5496-ZA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 15.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAY 23, 1991
This document has a rstrkited distation and may be used by recipients only in the perfoanae of
thedr dkal dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be discosd wihout Wo_id Dak authrztion.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Name             Kwacha
US$1.00                   48 Kwacha (end-December 1990)
Kwacha 1.00               US$0.0208
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 short ton (T)         =    2,000 lbs.
1 metric tonne (mt)    =    2,205 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
BoZ       -    Bank of Zambia
EEC       -    European Economic Community
MEMACO    -    Metals Marketing Corporation Ltd.
HIL       -    Mulungushi Investments Ltd.
ODA       -    Overseas Development Agency
SADCC     -    Southern African Development Coordination Conference
ZAL       -    Zambia Holdings Ltd.
ZCCM      -    Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
ZIMCO     -    Zambia Industrial and Mining Company Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
ZCCM: April 1 - March 31
Government:  January I - December 31



FOR OFFXILAL USE ONLY
ZABIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
PART I - THE MINING SECTOR ***************......................   1
Background             ...................................................    1
Sector Organization ...........................................    2
Mining Sector Issues .......................................   3
nART II - THE PROJECT . ....................... ..  ..... . ........   8
Project Objectives .............  .........................................   8
Rationale for IDA Involvement ...............................   9
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations ....................    9
Project Description .........................................  10
Implementation and Reporting .. ......... .......    ...... .....   15
Project Cost and Financing . ............ ............. ....... .  16
Procurement and Disbursement ................................   16
PART III - JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...............to...... .....   17
PART IV - RECOMM ENDATION ............................ . .......  18
ANNEXES
1. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
2.  Disbursement and Procurement
3.  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
4. Status of Bank Group Operations
5.  Key Project Activities
6.  Scope of Project Components
7.  Issues to be Covered in the Mining Sector Policy Letter
8.  The Zambian Mining Sector
This President's Report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission
that visited Zambia in January 1991. The mission consisted of James Moose
(Mission Leader/Economist), Ernst Bolte (Economist), Felix Remy (Mining
Specialist) and Derek Bullock (Consultant). The managing Division Chief is
David Cook (AF6IE) and the Country Director is Stephen Denning (AF6).
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the pertotimance
of their offlcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wofd Bank authrizatier .



ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
lBrrowert                           Government of Zambia
Beneficiariess                      ZCCM, Government, Naamba Collieries
Amount:                             SDR 15.6 million (US$21 million)
Termst                              Standard with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:                    The Government will onlend to ZCCM and
Maamba at the IBRD lending rate plus a
3OZ premium for 10 years including a 3-
year grace period. (At the current
IBRD lending rate of 7.732 p.a., this
would result in an onlending rate of
8.52 p.a.). ZCCM and Maamba would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:                     IDA          US$21.0 million
ZCCM         US$ 2.3 million
Government   US$ 0.6 million
Maamba       US$ 0.1 million
Total      US$24.0 million
Economic Rate of Ret.rn:            Not applicable
Appraisal Report:                   This is a combined President's Report
and Staff Appraisal Report.



EMNORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ZAMBIA
FOR A MINING SECTOR TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Zambia for SDR 15.6 million (US$21 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would help
finance a technical assistance project to aid the mining sector, the
country's leading foreign exchange earner. The three components of the
project would cover technical assistance to Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines Ltd. (ZCCK), the state copper mining company; the Ministry of Mines;
and Maamba Collieries Ltd., the state coal mining company. The credit
would be on standard IDA terms to the Government who would on-lend part of
the credit to ZCCM and Maamba Collieries on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA.
I. *THE MINING SECTOR
Background
2.        The mining sector has long been the backbone to the Zambian
economy. It consistently contributes about 852 of foreign exchange
earnings, around 152 of GDP and 302 of Government revenue. It is also the
largest formal employer after the Government. The dominant product is
copper which is 852 of the mining sector value added and exports, and is
produced solely by ZCCM. Cobalt (a copper by-product) and small volumes of
lead and zinc are also solely produced by ZCCM, while a modest amount of
coal is produced by Maamba Collieries. Finally, substantial amounts of
gemstones, mostly emeralds, are mined by artisanal miners and two -mll
industrial mining operations. Most of the gemstones are currently smuggled
out of the country.
3.        The dominating enterprise in Zambia's mining sector is ZCCM.
The company currently produces per year about 430,000 tonnes of copper,
4,500 tonnes of cobalt, 3,700 tonnes of lead and 12,000 tonnes of zinc.
ZCCH's lead, zinc and copper production declined sharply during 1975-85,
while cobalt output experienced a substantial increase. In recent years
copper production, which accounts for over 802 of ZCCM's revenues, has
stabilized and ZCCH projects that output can be maintained above 400,000
tonnes for another 7-9 years. ZCCQ exports practically all of its
production, earning over US$1,000 million per year in foreign exchange.
Annual tax payments of ZCCM have been of the order of US$250 million in
recent years. ZCCH performs also an Important function as an employer. In
contrast with the company's declining production trend, its total workforce
increased from less than 60,000 during the early 1980s to currently over
67,000 of which about 12,000 are employed by subsidiary companies. In the
area where most of ZCCH's operations are located (Copperbelt), but to some
extent also in other parts of Zambia, ZCCM provides a broad variety of
services, including schooling, medical services, transportation and



- 2 -
housing. Such services frequently benefit not only ZCCM's workforce but
also the population at large.
4.        Given its high dependence on copper mining and ZCCM in
particular, the Zambian economy deteriorated rapidly after the end of the
camnodities boom in the early 19708. Large and unsustainable external and
internal imbalances developed, savings and investment ratios fell and the
external debt rose sharply. Several attempts at economic reform were made
but were unsuccessful. By mid-1988, Zambia was facing a number of acute
economic problems, including a large and rising budget deficit,
accelerating inflation, low investment levels, shortages of essential
imported inputs due to lack of foreign exchange, and a severe external debt
problem. In late 1988 and early 1989, the Government, in the context of a
Policy Framework Paper agreed with the Bank and the Fund, began to take
remedial actions which involved the devaluation of the kwacha, decontrol of
prices, and interest rate increases. Zambia has basically remained on the
adjustment program through 1990, though with occasional slippages.
5.        Zambia's commitment to the adjustment program has been
reinforced during the discussions with the Bank, in late 1990 and early
1991, on an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and on a strengthened Policy
Framework Paper for 1991-93. The adjustment program for 1991-93 aims at
stabilizing the economy through fiscal and monetary restraint and, in the
medium term, at restoring economic growth through effective policies of
structural realignment. Specifically, such policies would aim at
diversifying the economy away from its over-reliance on copper and would
emphasize private sector development. In the mining sector, the
Government's adjustment policies focus on increasing the efficiency and
productivity of existing operations, in particular those of ZCCM, and on
opening the sector to private investments in order to encourage the
development of new mines sad mineral exports.
Sector Organization
6.        Ministry of Mines. The Ministry of Mines is the main
Governmental institution in the mining sector. It is organized in three
departments: the Mines Development Department has responsibility for
monitoring the sector and encouraging new investments; the Geological
Survey Department gathers geological data and provides geological
information to mining investors; and the Mine Safety Department supervises
the safety of mining operations. The Ministry's mining policies are
determined by the Mines and Minerals Act of 1977. This Act was issued at a
time when Zambian economic policies emphasized public sector domination in
mining and tight regulation and close control of the remaining private
mining operations. A supplementary description of Zambia's mining sector
is in Annex 8.
7.        ZCCM.  ZCCM is owned 60.32 by the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Company Ltd. (ZIMCO), which in turn is wholly owned by the Government of
Zambia.  The remaining 39.7t of ZCCN is held by private investors the
largest of which is a subsidiary of Anglo-American Corporation of South
Africa (which holds 27.32 of the company). ZIMCO, though it owns the
majority of ZCCM, does not control its operations. Rather, the Chairman



- 3 -
and Chief Etecutive of ZCCN is appointed by the President of Zambia, who is
alse Chairman of ZIMCO, and reports directly to him.
8.        ZCCO's production complex consists primarily of four large
copperlcobalt divisions as well as a small leadjzinc division. The
coppericobalt divis_ons, consisting of mines and metallurgical processing
facilities are all located in the Copperbelt adjacent to the Zairean border
while the lead/zinc division is located in Rabwe, between Lusaka and the
Copperbelt. ZCCM has two main subsidiaries, ZAL Holdings Ltd. (ZAL) and
Mulungushi Investments Ltd. (MIL). The former consists largely of the
U.K.-based subsidiaries which provide services that cannot easily be
obta84ed in Zambia. MIL consists of the Zambia-based subsidiaries of ZCCM,
most of which are suppliers to it, but some of which are engaged in other
businesses such as farming and tourism.
9.        Maamba Collieries.  Maamba, which is a well-managed operation,
consists of a single strip mine which is located in the Southern part of
Zambia. Maamba is presently in a loss-making position. Current annual
production is about 450,000 tons of coal with a relatively high ash content
which results in marketing problems. Employment is about 1,400 workers.
10.       Small-scale mining.  Mining of emeralds, amethysts and
aquamarines has experienced strong growth in recent years. Estimates of
total annual production value of Zambian gemstones are in the range of
US$180-400 million. Emeralds account for an estimated 802 of the total.
Reportedly, a quarter of the world supply of emeralds is mined in Zambia.
The enterprise structure of the gemstone sector includes two mechanized
larger-scale operations which are joint-ventured with the Government, an
estimated 30-40 registered generally non-mechanized private gemstone mines
and a large number, probably several thousand, of unregistered artisanal
miners.
Mining Sector Issues
11.       MininR Policy Issues.  The Mines and Minerals Act is now out of
date and does not meet the requiremeuts of the Government's private sector
orientation outlined in the Policy Framework Paper and the new draft
Investment Act of 1990. The proposed project will finance a review of the
Mines and Minerals Act as well as the preparation of a new draft Act. The
review of the Nines and Minerals Act would be conducted in the context of a
broad-based analysis of the constraints to private mining investment in
Zambia. The mining policy analysis would result in detailed proposals for
mineral taxation and incentives. The Government will also prepare a mining
policy statement outlining the overall direction of policies the Government
intends to implement with respect to privatization, revision of the Mines
and Minerals Act, mineral taxation and Incentives as well as the policy
measures needed for improving the growth prospects of gemstone mining. The
issues to be covered in the mining policy statement are in Annex 7.
12.       While the Mine Safety Department of the Ministry of Nines
obtains substantial operational assistance from ODA of the U.K., the Mines
Development and Geological Survey Departments need strengthening both in
terms of their operational capabilities and in terms of fully defining



their tasks. In particular, the Ministry must play a more active and
helpful role In attracting private investment to the mining sector, both by
foreign firms and by small Zambian entrepreneurs. The Ministry siould
substantially simplify the procedures and shorten the processing period for
issuing exploration and mining licenses as well as improve the provision of
geological information to potential investors. The proposed project will
provide assistance to the Mines Development and Geological Survey
Departments which would strengthen their capabilities in the above
mentioned areas.
13.       ODerational Issues of ZCCM.  Zambia's existing mining
operations, both ZCCM and Maamba Collieries, have considerable scope for
improvements in their efficiency of operations. ZCCM is profitable and its
cost of copper production is currently slightly below average world
production costs. ZCCGWs competitiveness is due to the relatively high ore
grades mined in the Copperbelt which have compensated to a large extent for
ZCCM's comparatively low labor and capital productivity rates. As the ore
grades that ZCCM will mine in the future are rapidly declining--and mining
conditions in the Copperbelt are becoming more difficult--measures to
improve productivity have to be introduced if ZCCM is to remain
competitive.
14.       ZCCM is in a tight financial situation.  Though the company is
profitable, its cash requirements are also very high. In addition to
operating costs, ZCCM has exceptionally large cash requirements for debt
service, taxes, capital investments and working capital. ZCCM's cash
generation from operations during fiscal 1990 was about US$400 million on
operating revenues of about US$1,280 million, valued at the official
exchange rate. Total available funds were US$475 million including US$75
million of long-term borrowing. The main non-operational expenditures were
for net debt repayments US$70 million; income and copper revenue tax
payments: US$75 million; capital investments: US$120 million; and working
capital increases: US$100 million. The fiscal 1990 cash flow surplus of
ZCCM was about US$70 million. ZCCM had a cash deficit during 1991 since
debt service obligations, tax payments and working capital requirements
increased while gross revenues declined due to lower copper prices.
15.       ZCCM's difficult financial situation evolved in spite of a
recent longer period of favorable copper prices on the world market. The
company is currently unable to finance all of its cash requirements with
its cash flow and borrowing potential. Among the main reasons for this
situation are high tax payments, heavy net debt service obligations and
relatively high production costs. ZCCH's tax payments rose considerably
with effect of April 1, 1990 when the Government introduced a minerals
export levy on copper. The levy is in addition to the corporate income tax
of 45Z of net income and taxes all ZCCM copper revenues resulting from
prices above US$1.00 per pound of copper. The tax rate varies between 60S
and 100t of additional revenues. Therefore, adjustments in ZCCM's payments
of the copper revenue tax will largely offset any future decline in ZCCM's
sales revenues due to lower copper prices (for details see Annex 8).
ZCCMl's debt service obligations result from a debt of about US$820 million,
most of which is long term and in US dollars. In tVe short term, debt
service payments will decline due to the limitations imposed on ZCCM under



the macroeconomic restructuring arrangements agreed with major bilateral
donors, IF and the Bsank. In the longer term, an analysis of ZCCH's
financial structure which will be performed under the project would support
a reduction in ZCCM's debt service obligations. ZCCM should also be able
to reduce current high additions to working capital if policies of valuing
spare part stocks and inventory managemuent are improved. The proposed
project will help ZCGM to achieve the needed improvements in these areas.
Finally, ZCCM's operating costs have considerable scope for reduction. The
company is relatively inefficient in its use of labor and, to a lesser
extent, in its use of capital equipment. Reduction in ZCCM's current
severe over-staffing will have a strong effect on the company's labor
productivity and on financial performance. The program of adjustment in
the labor force which is to be implemented under the proposed project would
reduce over-staffing in stages and could reduce ZCCG's annual operating
costs by about 5Z. Overall, in the medium and long term, a reform of
mineral taxation, financial restructuring of the company, improved
inventory management and a reduction of labor costs -- all of which are
supported by the proposed project -- would place ZCCM in a much stronger
financial position.
16.       Recent adjustments in the Government's exchange rate regulations
with respect to ZCCM also help achieve short-term improvements in the
company's profitability and cash flow. Because ZCCM is a net seller of
foreign exchange, the company's kwacha revenues have been lower than they
might have been, since ZCCM has used the "official* exchange rate to
convert dollars into kwacha rather than the higher 'second window' rate.
These two rates were unified in April 1991 so that this is no longer a
cause for reductions in ZCCM's profits and cash flow.
17.       within the framework of a comprehensive corporate plan,
consulting services will assist ZCCH in strengthening maintenance and
operational planning areas, improving procurement and inventory operations,
strengthening training, and enhancing management information systems which
currently suffer from certain weaknesses. The assistance provided by
consultants aims at rationalizing ZCCM4's operations, helping to reduce
costs and improve capital productivity by permitting a higher degree of
utilization of ZCCM's plant and equipment. Externally hired technical
specialists -- who would be subsequently replaced with trained Zambians --
have a crucial function in implementing the corporate plan developed by the
management consultants. Due to ZCCM's past policies of sharply reducing
employment of expatriate staff, the company faces serious shortages of
technical skills in critical areas of production and planning.
Implementation of an effective corporate plan would only be feasible if
ZCCM quickly fills such key operating and planning positions. The proposed
project would finance the cost of a small number of consulting specialists
who would put into practice the operational part of the corporate plan
designed by the consultants. At the same time, the specialists would
perform, within the overall concepts developed by the consultants, an
important function in the training of Zambian staff who would take over the
positions of the expatriate specialists after termination of their
assignments. Specialist hiring and training components therefore perform
crucial roles in achieving the objectives of the proposed project.



- 6 -
18.       ZCCH's copper ore reserves are being steadily depleted and no
substantial new reserves have been developed for a number of years. As a
result, copper production has tended to decline during the past 15-year
period, though it has stabilized in recent years, partly as the result of
the Bank-assisted rehabilitation of ZCCM during the 1980s (Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project No. 2391-ZA). During
implementation of this project, a number of weaknesses in ZCCM's
operations, staffing and planning procedures became apparent. The project
showed that ZCCM couli not effectively address its long-term problems of
declining copper reserves, increasingly difficult mining conditions and
rapidly declining competitiveness on the world market without specific
measures taken within a comprehensive corporate plan prepared for the whole
company. Current cash operating costs of ZCCM are about US$0.70 per pound
of copper which is slightly below the world average of about US$0.75.
ZCCM's total costs, including tax, depreciation and interest payments,
however, are considerably higher than one US dollar per pound of copper,
creating financial problems for the company even at the current relatively
high copper prices. Furthermore, declining ore grades and increasingly
difficult mining conditions will tend to raise both cash operating costs
and total costs of ZCCM. Without measures aimed at sharply reducing ZCCM's
costs, in both operational and non-operational areas, the company would
rapidly lose its competitiveness on world markets. The corporate plan
which will be prepared and implemented under the proposed project would
help ZCCM to reduce costs and remain competitive.
19,.      Provided ZCCM invests adequately in mine development and plant
maintenance and strengthening its operations, staffing and management in
line with the recommendations resulting from the studies under the proposed
project, ZCCM's annual copper production can be stabilized at current
levels of 410,000-430,000 tonnes for the next six to seven years. Towards
the end of the decade, however, ZCCM's copper production will start to drop
sharply to less than half of current output, as several of ZCCM's major
mines will have exhausted their known reserves. Zambia still has sizeable
copper resources which can be developed to partially offset the decline in
production from ZCCM's existing mines. The economic viability of these
copper resources has not been fully determined, although it is clear that
large investments will be required and that the mining and metallurgical
processing costs would be higher than in the current operations. The
analysis of ZCCM's resource base and assets forms a key input into the
preparation of the company's corporate plan, including a program for
divestiture, and would be financed by an advance provided under a Project
Preparation Facility.
20.       Given the sizeable financial resources needed to develop the
remaining copper resources as well as the requirement for highly efficient
operation of the new mines in order to make them economically viable, the
Government and ZCCM intend to attract private investors to implement and
manage the new copper mining projects in Zambia. ZCCM's longer-term
strategy, in addition, would focus on managing the existing mines and
plants with maximum efficiency and on the systematic phasing-out of certain
mines at the end of this decade. ZCCM will also sell to the private sector
certain operations which are not directly related to mining. ZCCM will
develop a detailed corporate plan in order to implement the overall



- 7 -
corporate strategy, including the measures needed to ersable ZCCM to remain
viable while major components of its operations are being phased out. The
proposed project would assist ZCCM in conducting the necessary strategic
studies as well as in preparing a comprehensive corporate plan.
21.       Operational Issues of Maamba Collieries.  Hamsba Collieries has
also room for productivity improvements, and the coal mine faces additional
constraints to achieving profitability from lack of foreign exchange,
transport bottlenecks and marketing problems. Haamba obtained support from
IDA-financed technical assistance from 1984 to 1986 (Coal Engineering
Project 1333-ZA), but is currently again in need of major rehabilitation
investments in order to remain operational. Given Maamba's difficulties in
marketing its low-quality coal, the rehabilitation program should only be
implemented after an analysis has determined the mine's longer-term
outlook. The proposed project would provide the financing for such an
analysis, which would also address the environmental problems faced by
Maamba. Assistance is also proposed to ascertain if Maamba's short-term
foreign exchange requirements can be reduced by proaucing certain spare
parts in the company's workshop.
22.       Issues of Small-scale Mining.  Mining of gemstones has suffered
under past restrictive Government policies. In order to increase
production and profitability, the gemstone miners need access to financing
and technical assistance. This in turn requires the complete legalization
of gemstone mining. More recently, the Government has taken steps to
liberalize the marketing of gemstones by eliminating the buying monopo.,es
and supporting the establishment of a gemstone auction organized by the
private sector. However, the Government continues to impose tight
restriction on the mining of gemstones while providing inadequate
assistance to improve production and profitability of the small-scale
miners. The proposed project would provide support to a study of
operational, financial and marketing problems of small-scale mining which
is aAzed at developing effective measures to strengthen artisanal gemstone
mining in Zambia. The project would also provide assistance in setting-up
the gemstone auction and in monitoring the functioning of the new private
gemstone marketing system.
23.       Environmental Issues of Mining.  There are no environmental
issues directly associated with this project. 1/ However, ZCCM, Maamba
Collieries and small-scale gemstone mining all have a number of serious
environmental problems in their operations. ZCCM's environmental problems
are mainly related to (a) pollution of the Kafue river which supplies water
to both the population in the Copperbelt and ZCCM's operations; (b) ZCCWBe
tailings dams, some of which require additional vegetation to increase
their stability and reduce erosion; and (c) the end of life of several
mines at the turn of the century. ZCCM operates a small environmental unit
which needs additional staff, supplementary outside analytical inputs to
address specific environmental issues, and more effective integration into
1/   The project is in Category C with no substantial environmental
issues.



- 8 -
ZCCM's overall corporate planning process. The proposed project would
strengthen ZCCM's activities in environmental protection by: (a) providing
qualified specialists to strengthen ZCCM's environmental unit; (b) helping
ZCCM to prepare a comprehensive corporate plan which would provide for
effective Integration of environmental aspect into ZCCM's operation and
planning process; and (c) supporting the preparation of phase-down studies
for ZCCM's mining operations with an emphasis on the required environmental
protection measures.
24.       The environmental problems of Maamba Collieries result from the
spontaneous combustion of the over-burden and from the acid minJe drainage.
The study of Maamba's long-term outlook would analyze these environmental
problems and design mitigating measures. There is little detailed
knowledge of the environmental problems created by the small gemstone
miners but evidence from other countries indicates that there may be
serious safety and other operational problems which requires urgent
attention. The study of small-scale mining which forms part of the
proposed project will analyze the safety and environmental problems in the
gemstone mining areas and will propose measures for their elimination.
Finally, the proposed project would include preparation of environmental
regulations and strengthening of environmental capabilities in the Ministry
of Mines, and would provide for effective integration of environmental
aspects of mining into the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control
Act which the Government is currently preparing.
II. THE PROJECT
Prolect Objectives
25.       The proposed project would help the Government of Zambia to
implement an effective development strategy for the mining sector. In the
short term, the strategy aims at making the mining sector more efficient
and productive than -urrently, so that mining can continue to generate the
resources needed to oupport recovery and diversification of the Zambian
economy. In the longer term, the strategy would support the development of
new copper mines by private investors in the framework of joint ventures
with ZCCH; would ensure the systematic phasing-out of certain mining
operations as reserves are depleted; and would support the development of
non-copper mining sector exports, in particular by attracting investment to
gemstone mining. The strategy would also aim at strengthening
environmental protection in the mining sector.
26.       The proposed project would achieve the above objectives bys  (i)
assisting ZCCM to improve its mining and metallurgical operations with a
particular focus on lowering costs; (i;) supporting development and
implementation of a comprehensive corporate plan which will include an
efficient phase-down plan for certain ZCCM mining operations with depleting
reserves; (iii) assisting ZCCM in joint-venturing its undeveloped copper
resources and in the divestiture of subsidiaries and/or assets with little
direct relation to mining; (iv) supporting a program to encourage new
private investments in gemstone mining; (v) facilitating the preparation of
a plan to aesist small-scale miners, especially gemstone miners; (vi)



- 9 -
developing a long-run strategy for Maamba Collieries: and (vii) assisting
in developing environmental regulations for mining and providing support to
the protection of the environment in the areas mined by ZCCM, Maamba and
the small-scale miners.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
27.       2CCM and the mining sector play a dominant role in the Zambian
economy.  A close working relationship between ZCCM and IDA and a broad-
based dialogue with the Government about the future of the mining sector
are therefore an effective part of the support provided by the Bank to the
recovery and the restructuring of the Zambian economy. Furthermore, it is
important for the Bank to support Zambia in the difficult tasks of opening
the mining sector to private investors and the joint-venturing of ZCCM's
assets. The proposed technical assistance project would strengthen the
existing relationship with ZCCM and renew the dialogue with the Government.
28.       The Bank Group has played a major role in providing assistance
to the mining sector. In 1983, IDA extended SDR 4 million for a Coal
Engineering Credit to Maamba Collieries. In 1984, as part of a US$300
million rehabilitation program, the Bank extended a loan of US$75 million
to ZCCM and assisted with arranging cofinancing of approximately another
US$90 million from AfDB and EEC. The IFC provided project financing to
ZCCM in 1980 and 1982. In the course of the ZCCM Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project, it became clear that ZCCH's operations suffered
from a shortage of skills, especially in the intermediate management and
technical areas. In 1986, ZCCM and the Government of Zambia requested IDA
to finance a technical assistance project for ZCCM. Negotiations for the
project were completed in 1987, but further processing was discontinued due
to Zambia's arrear; problems.
29.       The current project resumes the dialogue with ZCCM and the
Zambian Government, broadens it to include the entire sector and focuses on
strategic and mining policy issues as well as on improving operations of
ZCCM, Maamba and the gemstone mines. The project emphasizes helping ZCCM
to develop a comprehensive corporate plan which would include divestiture
and joint-venturing of important assets of the company. The project
component aimed at mining policy reform focusses on the creation of an
enabling environment for private mining investmen-:, including a revision of
the Mines and Minerals Act and the design of a new mineral taxation and
incentive system. It will also help improve environmental, health and
safety conditions in the sector. Both the divestiture of ZCCM assets and
the reform of mining sector policy will be conducted in the framework of
the Government's economic restructuring and privatization programs which
are supported by the Bank with lending operations and technical assistance.
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations
30.       The design of the project takes the experience from the two
prior Bank group operations in Zambia's mining sector into account. The
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project (Loan 2391-ZA) which
mainly provided funds for replacement and rehabilitation investments in
ZCCMHs plant and facilities during 1984 to 1987 was generally successful in



- 10 -
helping stabilize the declining copper production trend of ZCCM at about
430,000 tone per year. The main lessons learned from the project result
from the macroeconomic role of ZCCM in terms of foreign exchange earnings
and fiscal revenues. ZCCM also dominates major parts of Zambia's non-
mining economy, particularly transportation and power supply, and has a
strong influence on practically all other sectors of the economy through
its subsidiary companies. Corporate planning and decision making in ZCCM
therefore have been frequently determined by macroeconomic factors leading,
in many cases, to less than optimal decisions in investment, production and
employment. The proposed project assists the Government to establish a
mining policy and incentive framework which will reduce ZCCM's dependency
on short-term changes in Zambia's macroeconomic environment. Furthermore,
divestiture of undeveloped copper resources and non-mining operations,
which is supported by the proposed project, will tend to reduce over time
the overwhelming role of ZCCM in the mining sector and in other parts of
the country's economy.
31.       The Coal Engineering Project (Credit 1333-ZA), which financed
technical assistance to Maambs Collieries during 1983 to 1986, provided
also an important lesson for the design of the proposed project. While
Maamba's operational performance, with the support of IDA's Engineering
Project, improved substantially in recent years, increasingly difficult
mining conditions, declining markets and transportation problems may not
permit profitable operations in the future. The proposed project will
therefore finance a study of the longer-term outlook of Maamba Collieries
which would determine whether or not the needed major rehabilitation
investments in the mine are economical.
Prolect Description
32.       The project consists of three major components providing
assistance to ZCCM, the Ministry of Mines and Maamba Collieries. Annex 6
presents a detailed description of the project components. The technical
assistance for ZCCM covers the following components:
Mi)      preparation of basic information needed for the
divestiture of undeveloped mining resources and non-
copper assets to be implemented under the project.
This component would be financed under a Project
Preparation Facility (P683/ZA) which would provide an
advance of US$500,000 for assisting in the completion
of on-going work regarding ZCCM's ore deposits and
mining operations;
(ii)     a comprehensive corporate plan prepared by consultants
in collaboration with ZCCMI's management, covering both
the near term and the longer (15-year) term. The plan
would spell out in detail the technical, financial and
staffing strategies and actions needed by ZCCM during
a period of deteriorating mining conditions and severe
financial constraints. The plan will specifically
take into account the expected phasing down of
existing mines due to ore depletion, the proposed



- 11 -
joint-venturing, divestiture or sale of mining and
non-mining assets and the need to strengthen the
financial structure of the company including a
possible financial restructuring. Total estimated
requirements in terms of consultants staff time would
be 450 man months. Major activities to be performed
as part of the preparation and implementation of the
corporate plan includes
(a) a program of joint-venturing and divestiture
of ZCCM's under-utilized or unused assets.
Certain copper resources, shut mines, and
under-utilized or unused metallurgical
plants would be sold to or joint-ventured
with private investors who would be
responsible for providing financing and
management. Other assets, which are largely
unrelated to ZCCM's copper operations,
including those of its subsidiaries, such as
agricultural and tourist facilities, would
be divested and sold. ZCCM would also
reduce its involvement, through a variety of
divestiture methods, in housing,
transportation, schools, health service
facilities as well as in other services
which it currently operates. Asset
divestiture would be a pro-active process
with the management consultants not only
assisting ZCCM to identify and contact
potential partners and buyers, but also to
subsequently complete the divestiture or
joint-venturing process;
(b) phase-down plans for mines with depleting
reserves, placing particular emphasis on
workforce implications, environmental
protection and land reclamation measures;
(c) various studies and implementation of
recommendations to improve ZCCM's efficiency
and financial performance, including studies
to improve procurement, inventory
management, marketing and financial
structure; and
(d) a manpower and training plan for ZCCM and
the implementation of such a plan, including
phased reduction in the labor force to
support increased labor efficiency in ZCCM.
(iii) hiring of technical specialists with urgently needed
skills, especially in maintenance, operations,
inventory management, management information systems



- 12 -
and environmental protection. The specialists would
perform crucial functions in implementing the short-
term measures recommended by the consultants for the
first phase of the corporate plan. The specialists
would perform hands-on operational and planning
functions in key areas of ZCCM's operation wbere
improvements are most needed and ZCCM is currently
inadequately staffed to effectively implement the
measures recommended in the corporate plan. The
crucial function of implementing the corporate plan
performed by the specialists requires their close
cooperation with the consultants. Given the specific
role of the technical specialists in the corporate
plan they cannot effectively be employed under ZCCM's
normal expatriate hiring program. The specialists
should be highly qualified professionals who would
perform their functions of implementing the corporate
plan under guidelines established by the consultants;
(iv)    a training program for Zambian staff with a view to
effectively filling, in due course, the positions of
the technical specialists. The component would also
strengthen both in-house and overseas training
activities of ZCCM. The training of Zambian staff
would be closely linked to the specialist hiring
program under (iii) above. The consultants, in
cooperation with the specialists and ZCCM staff, would
(a) identify Zambians for training, (b) organize
training programs in Zambia, mainly by working closely
with the specialists, and in well selected overseas
assignments, and (c) prepare and select Zambians to
take over the functions of the hired specialists in
implementing the corporate plan after termination of
the specialist contracts. The consultants would be
responsible for the design of the training program and
would assist in achieving the objectives of the
program.
33.       The second component of the project would be technical
assistance to the Ministry of Mines with a view tot
(i)    providing about 60 man months of consultancy to:  (a)
establish an environment in the mining sector which
would attract private investment; and (b) improve
small-scale mining. The measures to be taken to
establish an enabling environment would be based upon
the mining policy letter which the Government would
send to IDA prior to Credit effectiveness. The
measures would involve undertaking a study of the
barriers to private sector mining investment,
preparing a new Mines and Minerals Act, designing a
new taxation and incentive system for mining,
preparing and implementing an organizational plan for



- 13 -
the Ministry of Mines, developing and implementing a
program for strengthening the capabilities of Ministry
personnel, including extensive training, so that the
Ministry can take an active role In attracting private
investors to mining, and improving environmental.
health and safety regulations. Improvements in the
operations of small-scale miners (especially gemstone
miners), will involve undertaking a study of small-
scale mining activities, identifying and implementing
technical assistance measures for small-scale miners
and specialized training of those Ministry employees
who would work with small-scale miners.
(ii)     providing better services for potential new investors
by creating data banks for geological and mining title
information and for economic mining sector data, and
preparing additional geological maps; and
(iii)     providing urgently needed assaying equipment for the
laboratory of the Ministry of Mines.
34.       The third component would be technical assistance for Maamba
Collieries and would consist ofs
*il     identification and implementation of measures to
achieve short-run savings of foreign exchange
expenditures; and
(ii)     a consultancy of about 30 man months to determine the
longer-term outlook of the mine and to devise and
implement a long-term strategy to deal with Maamba's
problems of environment, marketing, transportation,
excess capacity and inadequate foreign exchange.
35.       During negotiations, the following agreements have been reached:
(a) the Government will:
(i)     carry out an analysis of the barriers to private
investment in the Zambian mining industry including
institutional, legal and regulatory issues and
availability of geological information, and recommend
measures to overcome those barriers and encourage new
investments, discuss the analysis and recommendations
with IDA by December 31, 1992, and implement measures
acceptable to IDA by December 31, 1993;
(ii)     prepare a new Mines and Minerals Act and design a new
tax and incentive system for mining; discuss proposals
with IDA by December 31, 1992 and present for
enactment the proposed legislation and regulations to
the appropriate legislative authority by December 31,
1993;



- 14 -
tiiL)     design a program to support the sound and timely
development of small-scale mining with adequate
environmental, health and safety provisions, discuss
the program with IDA by December 31, 1992 and
implement the program by December 31, 1993;
(iv)     design plans for the staffing of the Ministry of
Mines, discuss the draft plan with IDA by December 31,
1992, and implement the staffing plan by December 31,
1993 taking into account IDA's views.
(v)     submit quarterly reports to IDA on the progress made
in implementing the project components of the Ministry
of Mines and of Maamba Collieries. The first reports
should cover the period January-March, 1992.
(b) ZCCM will:
Mi)     prepare a corporate plan covering both the near and
longer term, with suitable performance targets,
specifically addressing the expected phasing down of
existing mines due to ore depletion, and the need to
strengthen the financial structure of the company
including possible balance sheet restructuring. An
outline of the plan should be prepared and discussed
with IDA by December 31, 1992 and a plan acceptable to
IDA implemented for ZCCM's fiscal year starting April
1, 1993. Subsequently, the plan will be updated and
discussed with IDA by December 31 of each year;
(Li)      develop and discuss with IDA by December 31, 1992,
programs and timetables fort (a) joint venturing or
selling its under-utilized or unused assets relating
to mining activities; (b) rationalizing and divesting
the non-mining assets and activities; (c) improving
the performance of the procurement, materials
management and maintenance functions; and (d)
improving the marketing functions. The above programs
will be included in the corporate plan and implemented
by June 30, 1995.
Ciii)     prepare a manpower and training program for the
period 1993-1995, including a phased reduction in
labor force, and discuss it with IDA by December 31,
1992 and include a program, acceptable to IDA, in the
annual corporate plan and implement it with agreed
year by year targets for completion by December 31,
1995. The training program, in line with the
requirements of the corporate plan, would aim at on-
the-job and overseas training for a total of about
fifty professional staff. The training program for
artisans would aim at achieving the annual graduation
rate of about two hundred artisans. The program for



- 15 -
the reduction in ZCCM's labor force alms at an
approximate 40 percent reduction of ZCCM's total staff
of currently 67,000, including subsidiaries, through
attrition, divestiture and dismissals. The
approximate employment targets are 55,000 for December
31, 19921 47,000 for December 31, 1993 and 40.000 for
December 31, 1994.
(iv)     submit quarterly reports to IDA on the progress made
in implementing the project component. The first
report should cover the period January-March, 1992.
(c) Maamba Collieries will prepare an analysis of the long-term
outlook of its operations including measures to reduce foreign
exchange requirements, with recorwndations for a follow-up
action program, and discuss the analysis and recommendations
with IDA by December 31, 1992 and implement them by June 30,
1994.
36.       The following are conditions of effectiveness   (i) the
Government will prepare a Mining Policy Letter satisfactory to IDA
supporting private investment in the mining sector and divestitures by ZCCM
consistent with the Government's overall private sector development
strategy, (ii) the Government will enter into subsidiary Loan Agreements
with ZCCM and Maamba Collieries, and (iii) the Ministry of Mines, ZCCM and
Maamba Collieries will each establish counterpart teams to coordinate
project activities with staff and terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Implementation and Reporting
37.       ZCCM, the Ministry of Mines, and Maamba Collieries have already
identified senior staff in their institutions who will function as
counterpart for cooperation with the consultants. Project coordination
arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be established prior to
effectiveness of the Credit. The counterpart teams would be responsible
for submitting quarterly progress reports covering all project aspects
including use of technical experts and implementation of training
activities. The progress reports should be submitted to IDA not later than
45 days after each quarter. IDA would closely supervise implementation of
the project. A mid-term project review, scheduled for early 1993, would
provide a detailed analysis of the progress in implementing the project in
particular concerning the meeting of the December 31, 1992 target date.
38.       ZCCM and Maamba Collieries will submit to IDA annual reports
examined by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, within six months of
the end of the accounting year. At the completion of the project, ZCCM,
the Ministry of Mines and Maamba Collieries will prepare a completion
report satisfactory to IDA. In the past, ZCCM and Maamba Collieries have
consistently complied with the auditing and reporting requirements under
the Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project and the Coal
Engineering Project. They have also complied with the requirement of
preparing completion reports for these projects.



- 16-
Prolect Cost and Financing
39.       The total cost of the proposed project would be US$24.0 million
equivalent, including US$3.2 million for contingencies. IDA would finance
US$21.0 million, ZCCM US$2.3 million, the Government of Zambia US$0.6
million and Maamba Collieries US$0.1 million. IDA's component would cover
the project's direct foreign exchange costs while ZCCM, tis Government and
Maamba would finance the kwacha costs of their respective project
components. The Republic of Zambia would be the Borrower and the
Government would on-lend the designated credit components to ZCCM and
Haamba for 10 years including a 3-year grace period at the IBRD lending
rate plus a premium equivalent to one tenth of the IBRD lending rate.
40.       Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 1.  2CCM would obtain
the major share (US$15.0 million) of the proposed IDA credit to obtain
consultancy services to prepare the different components of the corporate
plan (US$5.9 million), to hire needed technical specialists for helping in
the implementation of the corporate plan (US$6.5 million) and to train ZCCM
staff (US$2.6 million). IDA financing allocated to the Ministry of Mines
(US$2.5 million) would cover the cost of consultants to improve the mining
sector investment environment and to strengLhen small-scale mining (US$0.8
million), training of Ministry staff (US$0.3 million) preparation of data
banks and acquisition of assaying equipment (US$0.6 million) and the
preparation of geological maps (US$0.8 million). Maamba's IDA credit share
would be for a study by consultants of the mine's longer-term outlook
(US$0.4 million) and for technical assistance (US$0.3 million) to achieve
foreign exchange savings. Contingencies of 151 have been added to the
above cost estimates.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       The selection of the consultants for ZCCM, the Ministry of Mines
and Maamba Collieries would be in accordance with the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" of August 1981. IDA has reviewed during Credit
Negotiations the terms of reference, the proposed short list to be used in
the selection process and the draft contract (including supplementary
conditions) for the consultants financed by the proposed project. For
ZCCM, the consultancy services will also include hiring of individual
specialist staff for providing support in the implementation of the
company's corporate plan. Hiring of the specialist staff will be done by
ZCCM in consultation with the consultants in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.
42.       Procurement of the goods and services needed by the Ministry of
Mines to install the data banks, prepare the geological maps and establish
the assaying equipment would follow the 'Guidelines for the Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of May 1985. Production of geological
maps involves mainly cartographic printing which is performed by a small
number of specialized enterprises. Such services will therefore be
procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) obtaining quotations
from at least four eligible and qualified suppliers from at least three
different countries. This list of such suppliers will be approved by IDA.



- 17 -
The establishment of data banks in the Minstry of Mines involves the
procurement of hardware (a small number of personal computers and printers)
and software (specialized computer programs for mining data banks).
Procurement of the hardware would be done through Local Shopping (LS) by
inviting quotations from at least three Zambian representatives/agents of
foreign manufacturers who have after-sales service and spare parts
facilities. Procurement of the computer software would be done through
International Shopping (IS) with quotations from at least three suppliers
from at least two countries. There are a few software suppliers for such a
highly-specialized purpose. The equipment needed for setting up the
assaying laboratory vould also be procured through International Shopping
(IS) obtaining quotations from at least four suppliers in at least three
countries. There are only a small number of specialized firms providing
both the equipment and the complete installation of a gold assaying
laboratury. All procurement of equipment and services for the data banks,
the production of maps and the assaying laboratory would be performed by
the Ministry's consultants. IDA would review the procurement of all
contracts above US$100,000. Detailed information on the procurement
arrangements are in Annex 2.
43.       The proposed IDA credit vould be disbursed against 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures. The proceeds of the proposed credit
would be disbursed in four categories: ti) equipment, mainly computing and
testing equipment (US$0.3 million); (ii) consultants for studies and
technical services (US$9.2 million); (iii) training of staff of ZCCM and
the Ministry of Mines, mainly through short-term overseas assignments
(US$3.2 million); and (iv) hiring of technical specialists by ZCCM to
reduce skills shortages (US$8.3 million). To facilitate foreign exchange
payments for the different project components a Special Account would be
established in a commercial bank which would be operated according to IDA
procedures. An initial deposit of US$1 million from the proposed IDA
credit would be used for the initial payments to be made at the time of
ordering equipment and appointing consultants. The Special Accourn would
be replenished regularly on the basis of documentary evidence as to
payments made from the account for goods and services required for the
proposed project. Expenditures for less than US$40,000 would be based on
statements of expenditures. Annex 2 presents the projected disbursement
schedule of the IDA credit.
III. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
44.       Mining is vital to the economy of Zambia both in the short and
longer term since, for the rest of this decade, copper is likely to remain
Zambia's dominant export and mining the largest industry. Furthermore,
Zambia still has considerable potential in the mining sector not only in
copper but also in gemstones. The mineral resources must be developed in
an effective way during the remainder of this decade, if Zambia's longer-
term goals of economic growth and diversification are to be achieved. The
proposed project would support the above objectives by providing effective
incentives to private investment in Zambian mining. The project would also
support ZCCM in maintaining current production levels until about the end
of the 19909. The technical assistance and the studies financed by the



- 18 -
project would help ZCCM to remain profitable during a period of
increasingly difficult mining conditions. The support provided by the
project In joint-venturing and divestiture as well as in mining policy
reform would open up the sector to private investors. The project would
therefore help Zambia in developing its remaining copper resources in an
effective way and in diversifying mineral production toward gemstone
mining.
45.       The main risks of the proposed project result from a weakening
in the commitment of the Government and Z5CM to privatization and mining
policy reform during project implementation. However, even with a strong
commitment, the policy of opening the mining sector will not be successful
if private investors are unwilling to risk their capital in the Zambian
mining sector. The risk of failure of the privatization program, however,
would be reduced by effective macroeconomic policies. Furthermore, ZCCM
itself faces a number of risks including sharply lower copper prices,
insufficient foreign exchange allocation and a breakdown of the
infrastructure systems on which it depends. In all cases, the company
would benefit from the increased operating efficiency and skill levels
which would result from the project.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
46.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 23, 1991



- 19 -
AnNE 1
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs                              IDA         Local         Total
_------------US$ million--------- -
Management consultancy                  5.9           1.0           6.9
Specialist hiring                       6.5           0.5           7.0
Staff training                          2.6           0.5           3.1
Total ZCCM                           15.0           2.0         17.0
Ministry of Mines
Management consultancy                  0.8           0.1           0.9
Staff training                          0.3           0.1           0.4
Data banks                              0.5           0.1           0.6
Geological maps                         0.8           0.2           1.0
Assaying equipment                      0.1            -            0.1
Total Ministry of Mines               2.5           0.5           3.0
Maamba Collieries
Management consultancy                  0.4            -            0.4
Technical assistance                    0.3           0.1           0.4
Total Maamba Collieries               0.7           0.1           !.e
Total grogram                            18.2           2.6          20.8
Contingencies                             2.8           0.4           3.2
Total project cost                   21.0           3.0         24.0
Foreign
Financint Plan                           Exchange        Xvacha        Total
----------eUS$ million-----------
IDA                                      21.0                        21.0
ZCC1                                       -            2.3           2.3
Goverument                                  -           0.6           0.6
Maamba Collieries                           -           0.1           0.1
Total financing                      21.0           3.0         24.0



-20-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
(a) Disbursements bs CategorZ
CateLory                  Amount         2           Disbursement Percentage
(US$ million)
Management consultancy           7.1         34       (1002 of foreign expenditure)
Technical specialists           6.8          32       (1002 of foreign expenditure)
Training                        2.9          14       (1002 of foreign expenditure)
Data banks and maps             1.3           6       (100Z of foreign expenditure)
Assaying equipment              0.1           1       (100X of foreign expend4tare)
Unallocated (contingencies)     2.8          13
Total                        21.0        100
(b) Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Years
92        93         94         95         96
------------------ US$ Million-----------------
Annual                       2.1        6.0        6.0        6.0       0.9
Cumulative                   2.1        8.1       14.1       20.1      21.0



- 21 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(c) Procurement Arrangements al
Prolect Element                      Procurement Method            Total
LIB      ISILS       Other         Cost
--_--------_ (us$ million) -----------
Consultants                                          15.6           15.6
(13.9)        (13.9)
Training                                              3.5            3.5
(2.9)         (2.9)
Data banks                                0.6                        0.6
(0.5)                     (0.5)
Geological maps                 1.0                                  1.0
(0.8)                                (0.8)
Assaying equipment                        0.1                        0.1
(0.1)                     (0.1)
Unallocated                                           3.2            3.2
-(2.8)        (2.8)
Total                         1.0       0.7        22.3           24.0
(0.8)     (0.6)      (19.6)         (21.0)
a/ Figures in brackets indicate the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



22 -
ANNEM 3
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:           Six months
(b)  First IDA mission:               October 1990
5C) Appraisal mission departure:    January 1991
(d)  Negotiations:                    May 1991
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1991
II. Actions to be Taken Before Credit Effectiveness
(a) Government to prepare a Mining Sector Policy Letter,
acceptable to IDA (para. 36).
(b) Government to enter into subsidiary Loan Agreements
with ZCCM and Maamba Collieries (para. 36).
(c)  The Ministry of Mines, ZCCM and Maamba Collieries to
each establish counterpart teams to coordinate project
activities with staff and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA (para. 36).



Tl} 1   S n W X  i SiSiSEE|!E S Ii 1iT
*-T  liiftl    i tt      I              iii i           1-
*                        I- S  |*
  t  3iEi              -u          2 3232322222322       F
s I.     2. I e                   A *~~U ***@**"        I
a ,
*                 33                   tx*lstxX
i   r                       tas8 s s  8 rjrr



- 24 -
UC,~~~~~~~~~~~~~q 2 of 
NEPIMLC OF ZAMBIA
MIMIN  SEC    TECHNICAL ASS TAE   PE
LIST OF CLOSED S3S -AND SL
Amont In US$ mlilion
*lgs  cnel lations)
Lom or    Fiscal                                                                       Undi-       Closing
edwit No..      r   sorr"                PurH                       ank       DA        bhr"d        Dot*
C15450-      1065    Zabia            Agri. Rehab.                          24.15          .00    06/80/18
Caoo00-ZAM    19U6    Zamia           Agri. Rehab.                           9.15          .00    06/80/01
CAOOII-ZAM    1,15    Zamri           ld. Reoroentation                     42.00          .00    12/81/15
CULW0-ZAM    198S    Zombi*           lcd. R.ortntat4on                      19.46         .00    12/81/0
LOSZO-ZAM    1154    Zambia           Export Rehab. & Diver.      71.92                    .00    00/30/08
Total Zabia                                                     71.92      95.45         .00
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF IFC 
Fioeal                                                                           -Amount in U#S-
OblieC r tae. oy   Buriness                             Loan  EquIty  Total
1072, 1078        Z tbia Bat Shoe Company Ltd.         Shoes                        2.1    0.2       2.8
1075, 178        Contury Package Ltd.                 Plastic Wrappins             0.9    0.2       1.1
1i76               ve opsent Bank of
Zambia Limited                     Devolopment Finance          0.0    0.5      0.5
1i02              Ethanol Cmpny of                     Chmicals &
Zambia Limited                     Petrocemicals                8.7    0.0      4.8
Company Litomlm                    Food & Food Procesing        8.7    0.6      4.6
10SO, 105         Kafue Tetiles of Zambia, Ltd.        Textiles A Fibers           10.7    0.0    10.7
1o"               M1s1tock (Zambi) Limited             Food & Food Procaing        6.0    0.0      8.0
loss              _pnp  Devlop_t
5pongY Lomite                      Fewood A Food Proceing       1.0    0.8      2.1
1084              Zambia notel Properties Ltd.         Tourism                     21.0    0.0    21.0
im, son      ~Zambia Conso Idtedo  Copper
*980, 19K2 Gtntimes LimIted                                                    68.1    0.0    53.1
TotI Gross Comiteents                                           106.0    2.6   107.6
LIseg  rpayment, canelolaionus,
terminations awn sIes                                    fl2S    1.0    54.8
Total uncomitted Investments                                      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Comitent. now held by IFC                                  61.8    1.0    52.8
Toftl UndisbureW                                                  6.5    0.0      6.5



- 25 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Maior Activity              Timetable                Expected Outgut
ZCCM
(i)  Corporate plan        ZCCM should propose       Outline of corporate
short list of con-        plan should be
sultants at negotia-      prepared by end-
tions and issue           1992.  The corporate
invitations for           plan should be
proposals by June         completed by mid-
1991.  Work should        1993.
start at early 1992.
Joint venture         Search for joint-          The joint ventures/
and divestiture       venture partners           asset sales should
and buyers of assets      start in 1992.  By
should begin by mid-      1994, most of ZCCM's
1991.                     assets and opera-
tions not directly
related to mining
should have been
divested.
Copper                To be initiated            Pre-feasibility
pre-feasibility       with help of the           studies for the
studies               management consul-        Nkana Synclinorium
tants by early 1992.      and the Chingola
Refractory Ore
projects should be
completed by end-
1993.
Special studies       Management con-            Detailed proposals
of procurement,       sultants will              on improving pro-
copper market-        initiate studies           curement, marketing
ing and financial     in early 1992.             and financial struc-
structure.  Imple-                               ture should be
mentation of                                     available by end-
study recommenda-                                1992 and implemented
tions.                                           during 1993 and
1994.



- 26 -
AWX S
Page 2 of 3
Malor Activita              Timetable                Expected Output
Manpower and          Management consul-         Initial proposals
training              tants will initiate        for staffing and
program               design of program          training will be
by early 1992.            completed by mid-
1992. Agreed
training and staff
reduction targets
vill be achieved
by end-1994.
(1i)  Specialist            Hiring should begin        The majority of the
hiring                soon after complet-        persons to be hired
ing initial pro-          should provide their
posals for the man-       assistance during
power program.            a 36-months period
in 1992-95.
(iii)  Trainina              Training is ongoing,       Training of adequate
but enhanced training     number of ZCCM staff
under the project         to effectively con-
should begin soon         tinue implementation
after the management      of the corporate
consultants have          plan after comple-
established the           tion of specialist
initial proposals         assignments.
for a training
program.
Ministry of Mines
(i)  Studies of            Ministry of Mines         Mining policy study
mining-Policies       should propose             and study of small-
and small-scale       short list of con-         scale mining would
minLnA.               sultants during            be completed by mid-
negotiations and          93.  New draft
issue invitations         Mining Act and
for proposals by          detailed proposals
June 1991.  Con-          for mineral taxation
sultants should be        and incentives vould
appointed and work        be available also by
initiated by early        mid-93.  Recommenda-
1992.                     tions of the studies
would be implemented
and new Mining Code
presented in Parlia-
ment by end-1993.



- 27 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 3
Maior Activity              Timetable                Expected Output
(ii)  Training              Training of Ministry       Training of adequate
staff would commence      number of Ministry
after completing the      staff to effectively
initial organiza-         perform ministerial
tional plan for the       function in privati-
Ministry of Mines.        zation and mining
policy implementa-
tion.
(iii)  Data bankst           Procurement of equip-      Data banks and
testing               ment and systems           testing equipment
equipment             would be initiated         should be opera-
by mid-1992.              tional and Zambian
staff trained to
operate the systems
by mid-1993.
(iv)  Geological            Editing and print-         Twenty maps would
map prepa-            ing of the maps            be completed during
ration                would be initiated         1992-93.
by mid-1992.
Maamba Collieries
(i)  Viability study       Maamba should pro-         The study would be
pose short list of        completed by mid-
consultants during        1992.
negotiations and
invite proposals
by June 1991.
Consultants should
be appointed and
work initiated by
early 1992.
(ii)  Technical             Assistance would           The major part of
assistance            be initiated by            the assistance
early-1992.               would be completed
by end-1992.



- 28 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SCOPE OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
I.   ZCCM
A. Corporate Plan
ti)     Obiective
To assist ZCCM in maintaining longer-term viability
and in increasing efficiency of operations in the
short term during a period of declining ore grades and
closure of major mines.
(ii)     Scope of Work
The preparation and implementation of the corporate
plan would take into account the following issues:
(a) the depletion of reserves in certain ZCCM mining
operations;
(b) the potential to develop certain ZCCM resources
(Nkana Synclinorium, Chingola Refractory Ore and
other resources) and their preparation for joint-
venturing or complete divestiture;
(c) the current inadequate labor and capital
productivity which is largely caused by ZCCM's
over-staffing;
(d) the need for divestiture of other ZCCM assets;
and
(e) ZCCM's current financial structure which requires
strengthening with a view to improving the
company's longer-term financial performance.
Preparation and implementation of the corporate plan
would include the following main components:
(a) detailed annual technical, financial and staffing
programs;



-29 -AM                                
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 11
(b) a program of joint-venturing and divestiture of
ZCCM's assets which are underutilized or
unrelated to mining;
(C)  a strategy for developing ZCCM's remaining
undeveloped copper resources;
(d) preparation of phase-down plans for depleting
mines;
(e) preparation of special studies of procurement,
marketing, inventory management and financial
structure; and
(f) preparation and implementation of a manpower and
training scheme.
Ciii)    Monitoring and Reporting
The work of the consultants requires close cooperation
with ZCCM's management and early establishment of the
overall long-term corporate objectives, including the
financial targets. The consultant would therefore
prepare initially a conceptual report after
determining the objectives and targets. The
consultant would also prepare a short-term corporate
program for ZCCM's fiscal years 1993-96 to be
Implemented with the support of the consultants. In
addition to quarterly progress reports, the
consultants would prepare an interim status report and
a final report which would present the detailed
corporate plan for the period 1993-2007.
B.  Specialist Staffing
(i)     Objective
To help implement the corporate plan with a view to
enhancing ZCCM's performance and reducing costs in a
number of key areas.
(ii)     Scope of Program
A certain number of individuals would be hired for
periods of up to 36 months each in accordance with the
requirements established by the management
consultants. ZCCM has indicated the operational areas
which need most urgent attention in the attached
Staffing List. Five specialists would be allocated to
ZCCM's Nchanga division, 15 specialists to the
Mufulira division, 12 specialists to the Nkana
division, 13 specialists to the Technical Services



- 30 -                            ANM   6
Page S of 11
division, and 3 specialists to ZCCHs headquarters.
The main skills needed are In maintenance, operational
planning, inventory management and information
systems. External staff would also be needed for
introducing new mining methods.
(Ail)    Monitoring and Reportinx
Quarterly reports prepared by the counterpart team In
ZCCN would report on hiring schedule of specialist
stpff and on the effect of such staff on productivity
and performance of the relevant operations in the
framework of implementing the corporate plan.
ZCCM PROPOSED SPECIALIST STAFFING LIST
Number
Required     Level
Nchanga Division
Fitter Foreman (Grinding Mills)                    2         Gl
Fitter Foreman (Slurry Pumps)                      2         G1
Electrical Foreman (Protection Equipment)          1         G1
Mufulira Division
Electrical Engineering                             2         SO
Hoist Mechanical                                   1         SO
Mech. MRS Implementation                           1         SO
Skills Training Officer                            3         SO
- Hydraulics and Pneumatics
- Deutz Engineer
- Computer Hardware Maintenance
Geotechnical Engineer                              1         SO
Mining Project Superintendent                      1         SUPT
Project Construction Site Superintendent           1         AISUPT
Safety and Loss Control Expert                     1         SO
Refractory Expert                                  1         SO
Pyrometallurgical Engineer                         1         AISUPT
Refinery Metallurgist                              1         AISUPT
Manpower Planning Specialist                       1         SO



- 31-                           ANN-X 6
Page 4 of 11
Number
Reauired     Level
Nkana Division
Smelter Manager                                     1         MANAGER
Deutz Engineer Specialist                           I         G1
Cat Engine Specaalist                               1         GI
Symons Crusher Specialist                           1         GI
High Speed Machine/Compressor Specialist            2         GI
Oxygen Plant Manager                                1         AISUPT
Met Plant Mechanical Sectional Engineer             2         A/SUPT
Plant Process Control (Foxboro IA System)           1         GI
Luanshya Division
Sectional Engineer - Hoists                         1         SO
Cost Engineer                                       1         SO
Technical Services
Senior Pyrometallurgist                             1         AISUPT
Senior Hydrometallurgist                            l         AISUPT
Backfill Technology Specialist                      2         AISUPT
- Design and Construction
- Site Implementation
Ventilation Specialist                              1         AISUP?
- Air Cooling
Senior Cost Engineer                                2         SUPT
- Training
- Project Cost Estimate
Senior Project Engineer                             2         SUPT
- Evaluation, Implementation
and Control of Projects
Group Engineer Maintenance Services                 1         MANAGER
Senior Mechanical Engineer                          1         SUPT
- Heavy Duty Machinery Mechanic
Mechanical Engineer, Central Winding Team           1         A/SUP?
Shaft Engineer, Central Winding Team                1         A/SUP?
Miscellaneous
Manpower Planning Specialist                        1         A/SUPT
Business Analyst                                    1         A/SUPT
Project Manager - Corporate Planning                1         SUPT
48



- 32                              4NN
Page S of 11
C. Training
()      Obective
To improve productivity of ZCCN's staff and to permit
the effective replacement of temporary specialist
staff with Zambians after termination of the
specialist hiring program.
(ii)     Scope of Training Prosram
Training would be performed both in-house, mainly
under the supervision of the specialists, and through
overseas work/study assignments.
(a) The overseas assignments for ZCCM staff would be
determined on the basis of the specific training
needs. The staff would be assigned to carefully
selected mining companies and institutions with
experience/operations in the areas where training
is required. Where possible, assignments would
be in neighboring countries (RSA, Zimbabwe,
Namibia) where mining and operating conditions
are similar to those in Zambia.
(b) About 200-300 artisans (craftsmen) would be
trained in ZCCM-run training schools.
(iii)     Monitoring and Reporting
The quarterly reports of the counterpart team would
provide the details of the staff to be trained, the
scope and nature of the training to be provided, and
the reasons for selecting the assignment. The
quarterly reports would also inform on the effect of
training on staff performance.
II. Ministry of Mines
D. Mining Policy Study
(i)     Obiective
To design sector policies which would promote private
investment in mining;
(ii)     Scope of Work
The study would analyze the constraints to private-
sector oriented mining in Zambia. The emphasis would
be on analyses of the Mines and Minerals Act and the



-33-                            ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 11
incentive system (taxation, foreign exchange
allocation and regulatory system, including
environmental aspects). The work would include
preparation of a new draft Mines and Minerals Act and
associated regulations, including environmental
aspects as appropriate, proposals for a revised tax
and incentive system for mining as well as proposals
for and implementation of a reorganization of the
Ministry of Mines.
(iii)    Monitoring and RePortinr
The consultant would cooperate with the counterpart
team of the Ministry during the period of study
preparation. An interim report will be prepared after
the consultants have established the facts and would
include the proposals for the design of policies and
for organizing the Ministry. A final report at the
end of the work would include the new draft Mines and
Minerals Act and revised regulations, and the proposed
policy schemes. Quarterly reports would provide
information on implementing the organizational
proposals.
E. Study of Small-Scale Mining
6i)    Obiective
To assist the Government in developing and
implementing promotional policies for the small-scale
sector.
(ii)    Scope of Work
The consultant should assess the size of the current
gemstone operations in Zambia, the country's gemstone
mining potential and the constraints which are
preventing the realization of this potential. The
consultant would then make detailed and practical
proposals on how to eliminate/minimize the constraints
and to implement a realistic program of support
measures for the sector. Such a program would address
both production and marketing issues of gemstones and
distinguish between measures which can best be
performed by the private sector and measures which the
Government should implement. The work of the
consultant should make use of existing studies by
SADCC and bilateral donors. Furthermore, coordination
is needed with the assistance provided to the recently
Introduced Gemstone Marketing Board. In addition,
current operations aAd potential for small-scale
mining of other minerals will be assessed. The



- 34                              ANWEX 6
Page 7 of 11
consultants vould also help implementing the proposals
made in the study.
(iii)    Monitoring and Reportins
The consultant would prepare quarterly progress
reports, an interim report and a final report which
would contain the main finding and the proposals.
Preparation of the reports would be closely
coordinated with the Ministry of Mines.
F. Staff Trainin
(i)     Ob1ective
To prepare the staff of the Ministry of Mines to
perform its functions more effectively under a
private-sector oriented mining policy.
(ii)     Scope of Training
Training of selected Ministry staff would be performed
at the Ministry by the consultants and through
overseas worklstudy assignments at suitable
-nstitutions and ministries. The assignments would be
selected with a view to providing training in
administering a mining sector operated by private
companies (licensing, monitoring and reporting
requirements etc.) and in methods of attracting
private investors to the mining sector (investment
promotion, preparation of project documentation,
contract negotiation, etc.). A third category of
assignments would focus on training in provision of
assistance to small-scale mining. Given the nature of
required training, the assignments would be largely in
neighboring countries with strong private mining
sectors (RSA, Namibia, Zimbabwe). The program
envisages training of an adequate number of staff for
effectively performning the functions of the Ministry
after completion of the consultants' contract.
(iii)    Monitorina and Reporting
Selection and assignment of staff for training would
be determined by the consultants In accordance with
the operational needs of the Ministry. The results of
the training wou d be monitored and reported In the
quarterly progress reports of the counterpart team.



- 35-                             ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 11
0. Geological and Minint Data Systems
(M)     ObJective
To establish information systems needed to effectively
administer and monitor a private-sector based mininS
industry.
(ii)     Scope
Assistance would be provided in two areas:
(a)  a geological data base would be established in
the Ministry of Mines. The assistance would
cover the necessary hardware and software, the
cost of installing the system and waking it
operational, as well as the training of Zambians
to operate the system;
(b)  a data base for both mining titles and mineral
statistics would be established in the Ministry
to store data for a mining sector information
system and to assist in the administration of
mining licenses. The assistance would cover the
hardware, software and training of Zambian staff.
(iii)     Monitoring and Reporting
Progress in implementing the project component would
be monitored by the counterpart team and be reported
in the quarterly progress reports.
B. Geological Maw Preparation
ti)     Obiective
To provide detailed geological information to
potential mining investors.
(ii)     Scope of Work
The work would continue the program initiated with nEC
funding to prepare an additional total of 20
geological maps of areas with high mining potential.
The work would make use of existing geological
Information and would include the editing and printing
of the maps.
(iii)     Monitoring and Revorting
Progress would be monitored by the counterpart team
and registered in the quarterly progress reports.



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 11
L. Gold Assaying Equi_ment
(i)     Obective
To support the development of small-scale gold mining.
(ii)     Scope of Work
Establishment of a small gold assaying facility in the
Miniatry would provide effective support to the
emerging small gold mining operations in Zambia. The
necessary equipment would be installed in the mineral
dressing laboratory which is fully operational. The
assistance would cover the cost of the equipment and
the installation. The moderate training needs would
be included in the equipment supply package.
(iii)     Monitoring and Reportina
The counterpart team woald be responsible for
monitoring implementation.
1II. Maamba Collieries
J. Viability Study
Mi)     Obiective
To determine whether or not Maamba is viable in the
longer term and would merit allocation of major funds
for rehabilitation, expansion and environmental
protection.
(ii)     Scope of Work
The consultant should determine the long-run
production costs of Maamba, comparing such costs to
the costs of alternative supplies of coal to Zambia
For this purpose, the consultant will perform the
following functions:
(a)  determine the long-run cost of coal production at
Maamba for different output levels, taking into
account the investments needed for
rehabilitation, expansion and environmental
protection during the next ten years as well as
the cost of increases in the carrying capability
of Zambia Railways;



- 37 -                            AM     6
Page 10 of 11
(b) prepare a market forecast for 14aamba coal, both
in Zambia and in neighboring countries, taking
into account the quality of Maamba coal relative
to supplies from alternative sources;
(c)  determine the supply cost of Maamba's
competitors, mainly of those in Zimbabwe and RSA.
Based on the evaluation of costs and markets. the
consultant should prepare,
(a) for the case that long-term viability of Maamba
can be achieved, detailed plans of operations,
investment and marketing aiming at a maximum
return to investment, and help Maamba implement
such pl.i4ns; or
4b) for the case that Maamba is not viable in the
long term, a detailed phase-down plan, including
environmental reclamation, which would aim at
minimizing the financial and social cost during
the remaining period of operation, and help
Maamba implement such a plan.
(iii)     lonitorig and Reporting
The consultant would prepare an interim report
presenting the initial findings with respect to costs
and markets. This would be followed by a second
report which would establish whether or not Maamba is
viable. The third and final report would, in the case
of viability, present the plans for investment,
operation and market strategy, or, in the case of non-
viability, present the phase-down plan and the
reclamation measures.
K. Short-ternm Technical Assistance
(i)     Objective
To reduce operating cost in the short-tenm, in
particular, the cost which require expenditures in
foreign exchange.
(ii)     Scope of Work
The consultant should assess Maamba's current
equipment maintenance and repair operations and
determine the extent to which savings in imported
parts can be achieved In the short run.



- 38 -                           ANN= 6
Pare 11 of 11
(Ili)     Wonitordn  and Reporting
the consultant will prepare a report on the findings
and the detailed recommendations with respect to a
program of cost reduction.



- 39 -                          AMn 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTACE PROJECT
ISSUES To BE COVERED IN THE MINING SECTOR POLICY LETTER
1.        strategl  for the Mining Sector:  (i) in the short term, the
existing mining operations, In particular ZCCGf, will aim at ilmproving their
efficiency, so that they can continue to generate substantial net economic
resources for the country; and (ii) in the longer term, mining operations
with depleting reserves will be systematically phased out and private
investors will be attracted to develop and operate the currently
undeveloped resources. both in copper and in gemstone mining.
2.        Mining Investment Policiess  the Government will (i) take all
necessary measures to create an environment conducive to private investment
in mining; and (ii) implement pro-active steps in the divestiture and
joint-venturing of certain ZCCG assets and resources.
S.        Divestiture Strategy:  ZCCM will identify those assets which are
suitable for divestiture in accordance with the following categories:
Mi)     assets which will be completely sold off to the
private sector;
(ii)     assets which are suitable for joint-venturing; and
(iii)     assets which are suitable for a variety of divestiture
methous, including sale to private Investors or
transfer to trust organizations.
4.        ZCCK's Corporate Plan:  to facilitate performance monitoring and
to enable the Government and ZCCM to take timely measures to safeguard
ZCCM's viability and profitability, ZCCM will prepare a comprehensive long-
term corporate plan including targets and performance criteria in the areas
of divestiture/joint-venturing, production, organization and management,
staffing, investment, profitability and productivity, and environmental
reclamation.
5.        Minint Legislation:  the Government Intends to seek assistance
in revising the Mines and Minerals Act In line with the following
principles:
(M      the overall direction of the revised Act will be
promotional and will reflect the objective of
attracting private  investors to the mining sector.



-40-                               ANNEX 7
Page 2 of S
The rights and oblipgtions of mining companies will be
clearly spelled out;
(ii)     licenses for exploration and miulng will be issued by
the Ministry of Mines with a minimum of administrative
requirements;
(iii)     mining rights will be issued for renewable periods of
time ad holders of concessions may sell their mining
title to other investors without Government
Interference; and
tiv)     all mining investors are treated equally.  Property
guarantees provided by the Investment Act of 1990
would fully apply to investments in the mining sector.
6.        Taxation and Incentives:  the Government's policies of mineral
taxation and incentives will take into account the following principles:
Mi)    mining enterprises will be subject to the same rates
of corporate and sales taxes and import duties as
enterprises in other sectors;
(ii)     in addition, mining companies may pay royalties, in
relation to the volume of mineral extracted, andlor
additional profit taxes during periods of high mineral
prices;
(iii)     the Government wil1 charge and collect market-based
license and area fees for mining rights; and
Uiv)     special agreements with investors may be used in
exceptional cases involving large investments of
macroeconomic importance.
7.        Foreign Exchange Regulations,  the Government recognizes that
the unrestricted transfer of foreign exchange for importation of inputs and
for dividend and debt service payments is an indispensable part of the
incentive package for foreign mining investors. The foreign exchange
regulations of the Investment Act will also be applied to mining investors.
8.        Policies for Small-scale Mining:  the Government's policies
toward small-scale mining will be promotional and will eliminate all
unnecessary state interference in production and marketing of small miners.
Technical and financial assistance needed by small miners will be provided
through schemes whlch promise to be cost effective. Government policies
will also emphasize that services to small-scale miners will be provided by
the private sector. In gemstone marketing, the Government's aim is to help
establish a well-functioning auction in Lusaka which would trade the bulk
of the gemstones mined in Zambia. The Government would provide small
miners with an adequate incentives package -- composed mainly of foreign



- 41 -                           MU  7
Page 3 of S
exchange retention and taxes -- so that illegal exportation of gemstones
will be minimized.
9.        The letter would be signed by a representative of the Government
of Zambia.



- 42 -                           AM=E 8
Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE ZAMBIAN MINING SECTOR
Institutional Framework and Policies
1.        The Mining sector in Zambia is the dominant industrial and
export sector, with ZCCM in turn being the dominant institution in the
mining sector. The mining sector operates within a framework of economic
policies established and implemented by the Government, the most important
of which are those concerning taxes and foreign exchange. In addition, the
Mining and Minerals Act of 1979 directly regulates the sector. Finally,
the sector is heavily influenced by the condition of Zambia's
infrastructure, especially the railway which transports most of ZCCM's and
Maamba's inputs and production.
2.        Taxes.  The sector is subject primarily to three types of taxes.
First, there are import duties and sales taxes on most items used in
mining. These duties and sales taxes are fairly high and for ZCCM in
fiscal year 1990 (April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990) were equivalent to about
30? of its profits after tax. The second important type of tax is the
corporate Income tax which is levied at a 452 rate. While this tax rate is
in line with tax levels of other mining countries, the total amount of
income tax paid by ZCCM is higher than indicated by this tax rate. This is
primarily because ZCCM keeps its books in kwacha leading to an
understatement of costs during periods of kwacha depreciation, as has been
the case over the past few years. This understatement of costs occurs
mainly for two reasons. First, depreciation expressed in kwacha tends to
be below replacement cost during such a period. Second, the accounting
cost charged to operations for items taken from Inventory under the first-
in-first-out principle applied by ZCCM is often below the replacement cost
of such items during periods of rapid currency depreciation and price
inflation. These two factors lead to understated costs and overpayment of
corporate income taxes.
3.        A third type of tax levied on ZCCM is the Minerals Export Levy
on copper. This is a tax which does not impact on ZCCM until the price of
copper exceeds US$1.00. Above this level, the Levy is in addition to the
corporate income tax. The rates of the Minerals Export Levy have been
established as percentages of the London Metal Exchange (LME) copper price
In accordance with the table presented below.



- 43 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
Sharing of Incremental Revenues
US per lb        S Export            US per lb of Copper a/
of Copper          Levo                Government         ZCCM
Over 100-105           601                    3.0            2.0
Over 105-110           70Z                    3.5            1.5
Over 110-115           80S                    4.0            1.0
Over 115-120           952                    4.8            0.2
Over 120              1002                   total
a/ Applies to copper prices at the upper level of each price range.
The Minerals Export Levy effectively operates as an Additional Profits Tax
which taxes away most of ZCCM's profits resulting from high copper prices.
Additional profits resulting from copper prices above USCt20 per lb are
being taxed away completely, while the marginal tax rate for copper prices
between US100 and 120 rises from 602 to 951. 11
4.        Maamba Collieries have not been profitable in recent years and,
therefore, have not been subject to corporate taxation.  Maamba pays,
however, duties on imported production inputs. There is no Minerals Export
Levy for coal. Given its largely informal nature, gemstone mining is
currently not taxed in Zambia. Only the two mechanised operations are
subject to regular corporate income taxation. However, in the context of
the newly established auction system for gemstones, the Government intends
to impose an ad-valorem tax of 91 on the gemstones exported through the
auction.
5.        Foreign Exchange Allocation.  Exporters generally obtain a
foreign exchange allocation corresponding to 502 of their exports. Such
foreign exchange may be used to import production inputs or, since 1990,
may be sold at market price to others who have inadequate foreign exchange.
Mining is treated differently. ZCCM negotiates with the Bank of Zambia
(BoZ) a division of the foreign exchange generated by the company.
Typically, ZCCM is allocated only 40-452 of the foreign exchange it earns.
ZCCM can then use its allocation to pay for imports. However, in periods
of foreign exchange shortages, ZCCM's allocation can slip below the 401
level. Furthermore, ZCCM is not allowed to buy additional foreign exchange
on the free market. Maamba, on the other hand, benefits from an
11  Recent relatively high copper prices have resulted in considerable
tax payments by ZCCM under the Minerals Export Levy. E.g., an
average annual copper price of US120 per lb results in a Minerals
Export Levy of USC15.3 per lb (3.0 + 3.5 + 4.0 + 4.8). At annual
production of 450,000 tons of copper, ZCCM's payments under the Levy
would be US$151.8 million, corresponding to a tax rate of 76.51 for
the revenue resulting from copper prices above USC100/lb.



- 44 -                           ANNU 8
Page 3 of 7
exceptional 1002 foreign exchange retention of its export revenues. Maamba
may also purchase additional foreign exchange on the free market. However,
Maamba's export earnings are small (about US$l.5-2.0 million per year) and
its kwacha earnings inadequate to purchase additional foreign exchange on
the free market. Gemstone miners selling their production through the
auction expect to obtain a 502 foreign exchange retention, as is the case
for non-mining exporters.
6.        Railroad Infrastructure.  For ZCCM and Naamba Collieries rail
transport is vital. ZCCM has to move its concentrate between its
concentrators and smelters by rail and then must export its finished copper
by rail. Furthermore, its heavier imports mostly arrive by train.
Similarly, Maamba must transport all of its coal by rail. Currently,
Zambia Railways is in poor condition. The track is old and deteriorating
while the company is short of both locomotives and wagons. This transport
problem has slowed ZCCM's production and added significantly to its
expenses. It has also tended to limit Maamba's production at current low
levels, since Zambia Railways are unable to carry additional volumes.
7.        Electricity Infras ructure.  The mining sector benefits from low
cost and reasonably reliabl electricity supplies. Because of the ample
capacity of the Kariba hydro-electricity dam, Zambia normally Las surplus
low cost electricity available. In 1989 and early 1990, however, due to
problems with the generating plants on the Kafue river, there was a
shortage of electricity in the country. Nevertheless, ZCCM was largely
exempted from the electricity supply reductions which were implemented at
that time. As Zambia's economy resumes its growth, the current excess
power generating capacity will be eliminated over time. It is therefore
important that mining projects--which tend to have long implementation
periods and are generally power intensive--be evaluated on the basis of
long-run marginal power supply cost, and not based on the currently
extremely low short-run marginal cost.
Operating Position of ZCCM
8.        Mining and Production Activities.  ZCCM's production complex is
an intricate system of operations spread over 100 kilometers in the
Copperbelt with a small lead zinc mine located at Kabwe. Copper producing
operations consist of four divisions, of which Nchanga is the largest.
This division comprises several major components, the most important of
which are: (i) the lchanga Open Pit which alone accounts for 25-301 of
ZCCM's production; (ii) the leach operations producing copper from current
and old tailings; (iii) two underground mines; and (iv) two concentrators.
The three other copper divisions are substantially smaller and comprise six
underground mines, five concentrators, three smelters, two refineries, two
acid plants and two cobalt plants.
9.        Exports and Sales.  ZCCM's copper production, which over the
past five years has averaged around 430,000 to 450,000 tonnes per year, is
almost entirely exported, with the largest markets being Japan, France,
Belgium and Italy. The copper is shipped over the TAZARA railway to the
port of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, though smaller amounts go to Beira in



- 45 -                             NM  a
Page 4 of 7
Mozambique and occasionally to East London in South Africa. More recently,
ZCC4 has started shipping through Walfis Bay in Namibia. The Metal
Marketing Corporation of Zambia (HEMACO). a subsidiary of ZIMCO, is the
sales agent for all of ZCGM's copper and cobalt. In addition a subsidiary
of MEUACO and ZCCM, MEMACO Trading Ltd., is a major copper trader on the
London Metal Exchange (LME).
10.       Financial Situation.  ZCCM is currently in a constrained
financial situation in spite of a longer period of favorable copper prices
on the world market. ZCCK is basically unable to finance all of its cash
requirements with its current cash flow and borrowing capacity. There are
several reasons for tbis, the most important of which ares (i) high tax
payments including import duties, sales taxes, corporate taxes and the
Mineral Export Levy; (ii) a heavy net debt service burden due to the
company's large foreign debt and limited ability to borrow; (iii) a
significant capital investment program, especially on overdue projects;
(iv) the decline in the value of the dollar relative to the pound sterling
in which ZCCM makes many of its purchases and tv) the company's accounting
system which tends to understate costs (see para. 2) and therefore
overstates the cash flow. In this situation the company needs to improve
its cash flow by cutting costs and improving efficiency. In addition, the
Government can contribute to the improvement in ZCCH's financial position
by reducing the differential between the official rate for foreign exchange
and the parallel market rate. ZCCM sells all of its foreign exchange to
the Bank of Zambia at the official rate but a large fraction of its
operating cost are in kwacha and tied to the parallel market rate. Thus a
large differential between the official and parallel market rates squeezes
the cash flow by reducing revenues relative to costs. Attachment 1
presents key data of ZCCM for the fiscal years 1989 and 1990.
11.       Organization.  In addition to its copper operations, ZCCM has
two major subsidiaries, Mulungushi Investments Ltd. (MIL) and Zambia
Holdings Ltd. (ZAL), which are primarily engaged in supporting the
company's metals mining and processing operations but have diversified into
other areas. MIL has its headquarters in Zambia, on the Copperbelt, with
about 70? of its sales to ZCCM. The other 302 of MIL's sales consist oft
(i) agricultural products produced by its Copperbelt farms; (ii) transport
services and management of Government-owned mills; and (iii) tourism
facilities. These latter activities are generally unrelated to copper
production. ZAL Holdings is headquartered in the U.K. and basically
provides services to ZCCM which it cannot easily obtain in Zambia.  In the
past three years ZAL has begun to diversify into new areas both in the U.K.
and by setting up its own subsidiaries in Zambia. Consultants reviewed in
1990 the operations of both ZAL and MIL. They recommended a divestiture
and rationalization program for ZAL, especially of its Zambian
subsidiaries. Work on determining the future of MIL is continuing.
12.       Future Production.  After a sharp decline during 1975-85, copper
production levels have stabilized in recent years at around 430,000 tons
per year.  ZCCM projects that current production levels can be maintained
above 400,000 tons for another 7-9 years. By the turn of the century,
however, copper production will decline sharply. The table of projected



-46 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
schedules for ZCCM's operations in Attachment 2 shows the details of the
production forecast. The slow decline of production during the 19909 is
caused by declining ore grades. The abrupt decline of copper production at
the turn of the century is largely due to the closure of the Nchanga Open
Pit. Thereafter, the declining trend continues as more operations are
closed down. Cobalt, which is a by-product of copper, will have a
production trend similar to copper.
13.       Copper Reserves and Resources.  1990 proven copper ore reserves
amounted to about 420 million tonnes with an average copper content of
about 3.1Z (including tailings and the Nchanga Open Pit cobalt ore ZCCM's
copper content of ore at the mill is less than 22, see Attachment 2).
Proven ore reserves have been declining for a number of years and are now
adequate to maintain current levels of copper production for only another
7-9 years. Zambia, however, has large copper ore resources in several
deposits which require detailed evaluation of their economic viability.
These copper resources consist of four main categories, which are
identified and relatively well delineated. First, there are mineralized
extensions, at depth or on the fringes, of existing deposits totalling
about 930 million tonnes of ore with an average copper content of 2.52,
including around 380 million tonnes with a 3.5Z average copper content at
Konkola. Recent studies by ZCCM seem to indicate that the Konkola deposit
may be economic, although operating costs would be high and there would be
a long lead time before large-scale production could commence. Also
investment cost, estimated at US$350 million, would be high. Nevertheless,
the Konkola project currently appears to be the most promising project to
partly compensate for the closure of the Nchanga Open Pit at the turn of
the Century. Also, included in the above total is the Nkana Synclinorium
which contains approximately 120 million tonnes of ore with a copper
content of 2.3?. However, the economic studies of the Nkana Synclinorium
are just beginning and its mining conditions are known to be difficult.
Second, there are numerous small separate deposits within the Copperbelt
which are estimated to hold about 321 million tonnes of ore with a copper
content of 1.6?. Third, there are ores which are metallurgically very
difficult to exploit. These include 140 million tonnes of the so-called
Chingola Refractory Ore (copper content 1.25?), which are already mined,
and another 146 million tonnes which are not yet mined. Fourth, the
Lumwana surface deposit, which is located outside the Copperbelt, contains
about one billion tonnes of ore with a low copper content of about 0.82.
However, exploitation is made difficult by its relatively low grade and the
lack of infrastructure in the Lumwana region.
14.       Investments.  While development of the copper resources in
Zambia will have to be done by private investors, ZCCM has several
important stand-alone investments which have been long delayed and which
need to be completed in order to maintain the current levels of production
during the next several years. The key investments which have to be
implemented in the near future are as follows: (i) rehabilitation of the
Nkana acid plants in order to ensure sulfuric acid supplies for the
tailings leach and hydro-refineries; (ii) rehabilitation of the Nkana
smelter to improve efficiency and provide a superior sulfur-dioxide stream
for the acid plants; (iii) the mining at depth project at lufulira to



- 47 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
ensure production from this mine after the middle of this decade; (iv) the
Mindola sub-vertical shaft to extend the life of the Mindola section of the
Nkana mine; and (v) rebuilding of the roof at the Mufulira electric furnace
which may collapse unless rebuilt in the near future. In addition, there
are several smaller stand-alone projects which seem economic and need to be
undertaken. These investments will cost a total of around US$300 million
equivalent over the next four years of which slightly over half is foreign
exchange. On top of these projects there will be a continuing need for
equipment replacement amounting to US$60-US$70 million per year.
Operating Position of Maamba Collieries
15.       Maamba Collieries produces coal in the south of Zambia primarily
for ZCCM, but also for a number of other customers in Zambia. Modest
amounts are exported to neighboring countries. At its current level of
production of approximately 425,000 tonnes per year, the company covers
operating costs but it cannot satisfy the cash requirements for debt
service and capital investments. With additional investments the company
has the capacity to increase coal output to substantially higher levels.
However, Zambia Railways has no capacity to carry coal volumes above the
current levels. Furthermore the Zambian market for coal is declining.
Maamba would like to make substantial investments in rehabilitating its
equipment a significant part of which is now in need of overhaul or repair.
Investment decisions must take into account: (i) the likely evolution of
coal demand in Zambia and surrounding countries over the next several
years; (ii) changes in the carrying capacity of Zambia railways; (iii) the
cost to Zambia of importing coal from the nearest supplier (Zimbabwe)
compared to the cost of production at Maamba; and (iv) Maamba's investment
needs over the next several years in both local and foreign currency.
Gemstone Miners
16.       Gemstones are Zambia's second largest minerals product by value
and the country's second largest export. The main product is emeralds but
significant amounts of aquamarines and amethysts also being produced. Most
of the production is by small-scale miners. The bulk of this production is
not reported to the Government and is exported illegally. The total value
of Zambian gemstones production and exports are broadly estimated at
somewhere between US$150 and US$400 million per year. The Government
initially followed a policy of trying to control production and exports by
licensing monopoly buyers who paid the small-scale miners generally less
than the going prices for their stones. This policy failed and a promising
industry suffered a serious set-back. More recently, the Government has
eliminated the buying monopolies and has actively supported the
establishment of gemstone marketing organized by the private sector.
17.       The small-scale miners associations are currently in the process
of establishing a gemstone auction system in Lusaka. The first auction is
scheduled for April 1991. A regular auction has the potential of solving
the marketing problem of small miners, but their serious production
constraints continue to limit the growth of gemstone mining in Zambia.
Four main production constraints seem to exist: (i) lack of mechanical



- 48 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
mining equipment; (ii) insufficient credit and equity financing; (iii)
inadequate training; and (iv) insufficient geological information on the
gemstone mining areas. A detailed study will help to identify effective
measures to reduce these constraints.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM)
Key Data for Fiscal Years 1989 and 1990
------Fiscal Year---- a/
1989             1990
Production (tons)
Copper                                    415,645           448,468
Cobalt                                       4,871            4,447
Lead                                         6,345            3,653
Zinc                                       18,343            12,351
Number of emploaees                           65,312           67,448
Average price realized (b)(per ton)
Copper                                  K  25,721         K  45,475
US$   2,469      US$   1,773
Cobalt                                  K 130,903         K 328,674
US$  12,567      US$  12,818
sales b/
K million                                  18,13S            32,876
US$ million                                  1,741            1,282
Capital expenditures b/
K million                                   1,191             3,090
US$ million                                    114              121
Net profit bl
K million                                   1,832             2,586
US$ million                                    176              101
al Fiscal years April 1 - March 31.
b/  US dollar asounts at the official exchange rate.



Sjwp .ot           sqtW   0  *' p F  eala sa  Pq o   OFI* to lae 4 w1gsp*qua.p 0mNUV  /P
4    am       Om    No    1           n ss  " tt   nu    OStt    Mt   "tLtt  0nts  i;  U1t    &MsW             *       OO am   Ott    NW      aSOt  0        asp'S
VTM *           s    MPt ttt tPI N             m    tAl  t*@iis toll %G"w  CLSt SWol 9OD                WIll tOS"O        W  own  awn   SstLO   'PI"   as pa't.
able   Sri    all   M'S a            t-t   n-t   1asbt   ort        .1  iO1 1'-I   *1    WI-t   5t   o-t   Bot                  t   "It*   **t        -t         P  or"
co               "t   94                mUt t01    nA   um    am                    ta        ut  mm          m    o      mm am   zn            Irsel M             VA     "         swa avw
-          1Ats Ing  "5 w                    a  Un  no   mg a  " S"   mg TW   m   weG   Z                                                       0m                      N
_            11.*   tI*0    t        t S0-*   0i-    ur.   at.   e10   SI@    6t'@    silo  tt*0 _1s t JO tt@    1tO                        soo  _S tS vpaJ
2 R ~~~~99,11   "Ittt  "'I   n-t   00,1   Solt   ov-t   aot   al N't   oo-t   60-    to's   MIT                       pt   colt   u's       t W-t   "It         V1-t 
tt   Om    Om    Om    Uam   eOms  oam              m        sm    Oms   ots   s         "oa    am    am        O  ttl    90           S"iau0 *      at ta
W%."n n                mut one   mu   geml   ~ SUtC  t"C  taml g                          9050 0Sta       61    am    m         On     119110   W
al EI:'t       all X   C-t   9S't  09't    a's  int   cotJ   tSell   "It  aJll   colt   0,'1   eslt-    all  <WIt-    OPt    Opp's-T               VO
|tS 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    onS  on                              an      on    9Sp      an     as    anB O t            M     t     t; tt tSGwoC 
us   cu's o  o om     ems   ego's  tots   ot        us:   e'sOt     a's   Go't o3 e"
Om-   *O      am On            me   sit    orm       Mt   orc no                         g   oCoo
CtLIt  WOO   5S    am*5   gt   Usts  sttS   amtb  1555    tamS  owe                      F* *Ur
Ot*:   so':   or: ittt  "sI    Ol    es'tK rw  OW'                  as'    eS t si     V*@ "1
ice    uSol    Mt      tll: tat Lte Olt   MM    nt    sOml   #i9T                      '.s  We               fPa, gem
ceo:   Oem     Oem     aom           amtatt   m      Omt   am    am    am    Om    ct   sOmt  sgm    Ot   ogu                    no    ant           'S two
out0  t0si  tiusi  tots:  o00   0050   iota.  sWI*   6050  00105U  60  0106  WOUO    0100   sol    06106   6555  NtSl  s0olo   IoS                           as t
all:  gall   sc:   asel    eli                t       *       It   all t . - T sit    leCt  tC'T   MI    all   15'K    "It   Olt    "It    "t  ts:
IM     girt   Pit   sil   9et   Oags gt             g       gmsgm    gmsgm    Om9n    OS9                       O       gou s03n        sm    no ecst   na               an fn 1GAs fto 
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WO    "-     oto    out's  cose  sg eas :    t    Slt  t1a gStwXI  CtC  - - tTs tao _
05    0                                                                                                                       b t   Om"   OAm'   _55   _t          PS 'teJO
co's  oeo     O eost  gas    ODeast at            V*   "
GOOt C9OCS  ODCs       Ose  cogot  oos  OO           M.II  eSeRaOs  ao" e 1        SW     Om0   an1             s9 t
LI'S  oCge    sale   ga's t#'6    as    so's   ns    "Is   a's   19's    "t9   cL.s   u's                     p: ""aC
1S9 0I0g Ot             ;   out   Om    eOmt   cett    amt   Sol    o            gsm    ont    as             coo am           son a OM
lpt  C9ots: e>o:  otiu   gut::   ost   ag           tsm   ossIe  Tom  sca   c9e    SoK   tun   595*  00                 e1t1s  utVI   Otto   as              gos et_
ott   sse Cbae   us'           s's   see   usse       e's   0O's   cO's   gt'   osgl   o0 Ge  tSt   PI$   OS   aeo-            0Ov    eoD'   W9C            SW 'P"
tot    Os    uS        uiL    ts zc ueXal e  mm:    9e Mt   9ttl0 tit    et         CtOt M       an         t   *oMt   not    Omt    nom    aOt            *meo              "Ot s   ,oqaowt
CmSs:   @i006   00065  caca   00065  rams  OOss  oass  eOwl '        stO   Os sit  eusmt  Osmo    et  sa         055s5 UgSt            aS t#s
at-c   ate   oClo   otO    o o o    Coo  eto'o   99 0    9'O    010   "lo   "lo   0n0    9fs0  050    *9O    t9lo                  PM at'0
Sot   W        000   0000   0000   0000   0000   COOL   Om    Om    000            0      0      bS      "a*    0s   lLt             's 'OeV        et 1w  P1t0
ILSim   050   Tam    ios  saw                mit  Suet C:t    gloss  50t15  900   9050   tott   9               U11S Zllts    95   0tt9 t a 9   10           as ta"n    Ono d   
n      oSb    llOt   tsOl   Sbtl   nnI        St   unt:  GSm    9uSe   am    st.   O             Lm UK    "     tlts   am    ao         meg   ans         *'us .         p-Am1O       -I .101
moes           Ls    LoSn   AOmS   LOSe   aSS   lOtS    t1S    VW0   iW                      
Ila   50   LS'C   LS'O    l'O   9'     10   *"0  -90             "5'l    tlO        PS 90'q
OtO9   ot0   OmtO  OtO9        aOW   ote.   e0   oe  O      tOes OU95    gm              as %tW
g99I    "It   S"It   "It   tOt1  "It           It"t          "It tS't   5St   e-t       5004            film " pesaagl
tt   0on       009    09    on       O"     Ott    Ott    Otn   oa          mt          *.t .000          We 6  0    An
fSolet  000COt oCOn tcot   00ot tn      0t 05*t o5W5t  LOLUt  005L   ostt                 0  *10)
golf   Otlt   OO'; t S'9S  O'S C  L-6    S'SC  "I'    "Is   ae'l  stL'                IP 
SMut   OOm    CONI Om    Om    O             Om      am    Om       000   SitS          '.000 'J- " 1
ot/eoCC enaZteO       SO        /SOlX 0cs W0/00  oQStOs 't/l0t sc/ood  aglow tohoos Uco/u   n/ftU: fa : a/lmot SO/s.t sal/0t Kt/et ra/sOl CbA:  /totsOI
ea     ox      St     It      et     St     1t      e       at     tt      Ot     e       a      a       s      9       t      s        s      T
-   -_--_ ---_ ----__ -_-- --_.____ _ _. _
1  ('J."mu  -MA*  sasapstx  Oveu,
050) sWaNUddo oezvram  wo



