희


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2269 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           zooo  ,            1991, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (ths Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines Limited, a company incorporated and
existing under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter called ZCCM),
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ZCCM part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreeuent of even date herewith between the Association and ZCCM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Cond.2.tions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
swieral terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ZCCK of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   'Maamba Collieries" means Haamba Collieries Limited, a
company incorporated and existing under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means each of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and ZCCM and between the
Borrower and Maamba Collieries pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) and (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "FiFeal Year" means the period January 1 to December 31
for the Borrower, and the period April 1 to March 31 for ZCCM; and
(f)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated            and
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million    six   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 1L5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount


﻿-3-
of the Project Preparation Advance withdraw  and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2001, and ending May 1, 2031. Each installment to and


﻿-4-
including the installment payable on May 1, 2011, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman and Chief Executive of ZCCM is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall:
(i) carry out Part A of the Project; (ii) cause Maamba Collieries
to carry out Part B of the Project; (iii) cause ZCCM to carrying out
Part C of the Project and to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ZCCM
therein set forth; and (iv) take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provisions of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Maamba Collieries and
ZCCM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 12,760,000 to
ZCCM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ZCCM, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include: (i) repayment
over a term of 10 years, including 3 years grace; (ii) a rate of
interest of eight point five percent (8.5%) per annum on the
principal withdrawn and outstanding; and (iii) ZCCM to bear the
foreign exchange risk.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 592,000 to
Maamba Collieries under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Maamba Collieries, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include: (i) repayment over a term of 10 years, including 3
years grace; (ii) a rate of interest of eight point five percent
(8.5%) per annum on the principal withdrawn and outstanding; and
(iii) Maamba Collieries to bear the foreign exchange risk.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, through 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ZCCM
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1992, submit to the
Association for review and comments its draft Mines and Minerals
Act and proposals for a new tax and incentive system for the mining
industry; and
(b)   not later than December 31, 1993, present to Parliament
its draft Mines and Minerals Act.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   carry out a study of the barriers to private investment
in its mining industry, said study to include an analysis of
institutional, legal and regulatory issues and availability of
geological information;
(b)   not later than December 31, 1992, submit to the
Association for review and comments the findings of said study,
including proposed measures to overcome such barriers and encourage
new investments; and
(c)   not later than December 31, 1993, implement measures
acceptable to the Association for promoting private sector involve-
ment in the mining industry.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1992, submit to the Association for review and comments an
action program to support the development of small scale mining; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1993, implement said action program,
taking into account the Association's views.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries:
(a)   to carry out a study, under terms of reference accep-
table to the Association, on the long term outlook for its opera-
tions, including measures to reduce foreign exchange requirements;


﻿-7-
(b)   not later than December 31, 1992, submit to the
Association for comments the findings of said study; and
(c)   not later than June 30, 1994, implement the findings of
the study, taking into account the Association's views.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1992, submit to the Association for review a draft staffing
plan for its Ministry of Mines; and (b) not later than December 31,
1993, implement said staffing plan taking into account the Associa-
tion's views.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement the Borrower shall, with effect from the first quarter of
1992, submit quarterly progress reports to the Association for its
review on the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project. Said
progress reports shall cover, inter alia, the activities of
technical experts and the training activities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Tha Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
Maamba Collieries.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause Maamba Collieries to:
(i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
(e)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall and shall cause Maamba Collieries
to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure   that  all  records  (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until


﻿at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable  the Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or ZCCM shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations contained in the mining sector
policy letter referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(b)   ZCCM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ZCCM will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Memorandum or Articles of Association of ZCCM shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of ZCCM to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ZCCM or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ZCCM and on behalf of the Borrower and
Maamba Collieries, respectively;
(b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a letter
satisfactory to the Association on its mining sector policy; and
(c)   the Borrower, ZCCM and Maamba Collieries shall each have
established, under terms of reference and with membership acceptable
to the Association counterpart teams to implement and coordinate
Project activities.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ZCCM, and is legally binding upon ZCCM in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, ZCCM and Maamba Collieries
and are legally binding upon the Borrower, ZCCM and Maamba
Collieries, respectively in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 through 3.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Ministry of the Borrower at the time responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    ZA 42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
222440
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By/      AK    ?.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Assaying                   100,000        100% of foreign
equipment                                 expenditures
(2)   Map production           1,000,000        100% of foreign
and data banks                            expenditures
(3)   Consultants             10,000,000        100% of fceign
services                                  expenditures
(4)   Training                 2,100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5)   Refunding of               400,000        Amount due pur-
Project Pre-                              suant to Section
paration                                  2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                   Agreement
(6)   Unallocated              2,000,000
TOTAL                   15,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower make
the mining sector more efficient and productive through supporting
the development of new copper mines by private investors, phasing
out of depleted mines, supporting non-copper mining sector exports,
and strengthening environmental protection measures in the mining
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Ministry of Mines
1.    Carrying out studies on ways to encourage private sector
investment in the mining industry, including: (a) redrafting the
Borrower's Mines and Minerals Act; (b) designing a new taxation and
incentive system for the mining industry; (c) training of personnel
in private sector mining activities; and (d) improving environ-
mental, health and safety measures.
2.    Establishing a data bank for geological, mining, title, and
statistical information and the preparation of geological maps.
3.    Improving the operations of small-scale miners, especially
gemstone miners, through carrying out a study of the sector's
potential and the training of personnel in dealings with small-scale
miners.
4.    Provision of assaying equipment for the laboratory of the
Ministry of Mines.
Part B:     Maamba Collieries
1.    Carrying out a study on the future outlook for Maamba
Collieries, including devising of a long-term strategy in coal
marketing, transportation, environmental issues and excess capacity.
2.    Carrying out a study on measures to achieve short run savings
of foreign exchange expenditures.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:     Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
1.    Carrying  out  prefeasibility  studies   of  ZCCM's  copper
resources, and preparation of projects for joint venturing.
2.    Assisting ZCCM in the preparation of a comprehensive 15 year
corporate plan.
3.    Assisting ZCCM launch a program of divestiture of some of its
operations and introducing joint-venture arrangements for its under-
utilized or unused assets.
4.    Carrying out studies and implementation of recommendations to
improve ZCCM's financial performance, maintenance of its assets,
operational planning, inventory management, procurement, management
information systems, marketing and environmental protection
measures.
5.    Preparation and implementation of a manpower and training plan
for ZCCM, including local and overseas training for ZCCM staff..
6.    Preparation of a phase-down plan for mines with depleting
reserves, including preparation of strategies on redundant work-
force, environmental protection and land reclamation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods
1.    Goods and services required for the production of geological
maps may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least four qualified
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines) and in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    The hardware for the establishment of the data banks may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.    The computer software and the equipment for the setting-up of
the assaying laboratory may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least four suppliers from at least three countries eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and Maamba Collieries in
carrying out their respective Parts of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, and cause Maamba Collieries to employ, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made ab follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 18 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been showr
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph   3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
dposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal. the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been


﻿- 19 -
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


