                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 77906-PH




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                                    OF

         PH-SUPPORT TO BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT

                         GRANT SIGNING DATE: MARCH 27, 2008

                                                TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                  DATE OF RESTRUCTURING:

                                            MAY 30, 2013




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
AUD      Australian Dollar
DepEd    Department of Education
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
LRMDCs   Learning Resource and Management Development Centers
PDO      Project Development Objective
SPHERE   Support to Basic Education Sector Reform Project




         Regional Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg
               Country Director:         Motoo Konishi
                Sector Manager:          Luis Benveniste
              Task Team Leader:          Lynnette Dela Cruz Perez



                                    ii
                             PHILIPPINES
        PH-SUPPORT TO BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT

                                                    CONTENTS

                                                                                                                       Page
A.   SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 1
B.   PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 1
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 2




                                                            iii
                                     PHILIPPINES

         SUPPORT TO BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.     The purpose of this restructuring paper is to extend the grant closing date of the
Support to Basic Education Sector Reform Project (SPHERE) – TF091695-PH from May
31, 2013 to November 30, 2013. The grant from the Australian Agency for International
Aid (AusAID) was in the amount of AUD 39,451,025 (US$ 36.96 million equivalent)
and was approved on June 20, 2008. Although the government has made progress, recent
implementation delays encountered by the project led the Philippine Government to
request an extension of the closing date.

2.      The extension of the closing date satisfies OP 10.00, paragraph 23 on Closing
Date, namely that: (a) the project is not subject to suspension of disbursements; or (b) for
any financing to a borrower, there are no outstanding audit reports or audit reports which
are not satisfactory to the Bank, unless the borrower and the Bank have agreed on actions
to address the deficiencies.

3.    This will be the third extension of the project. The first extension was for 18
months, from July 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The second extension was for 5
months, from January 1, 2013 to May 31, 2013.


B. PROJECT STATUS

4.      The project has made good progress in terms of mobilizing technical assistance to
support the Department of Education (DepEd) in key areas of the Basic Education Sector
Reform Agenda such as school-based management, teacher development, Information
Communications and Technology (ICT) in education, and organizational development.
The project also provided school-based management (SBM) grants to disadvantaged
public schools to support the implementation of school improvement plans developed
with community stakeholders. The increase in the amount for SBM grants mobilized in
the last two years enhanced the capacity of schools and their stakeholders to respond to
identified needs at the local level. Under SPHERE, teaching and learning materials were
provided for teacher and student support. Furthermore, capacity building and training of
regional and division officials in various areas were continuously pursued and significant
resources from the DepEd budget as well as from various development partners were
mobilized to complement the project funds. Additional classrooms and furniture were
provided to schools in high-need locations, contributing to the government’s thrust to
close the classroom gap and providing a conducive learning environment for students.



                                             4
5.      Despite the delays in the completion of the last batch of classroom construction
projects, the Learning Resource and Management Development Centers (LRDMC) and
the procurement of school furniture and equipment, the project development objectives
continue to be achievable within the proposed period of project implementation.
Elementary net enrolment rate for the school year 2011-12 was 97.3 percent. Good
progress was also achieved in terms of meeting project targets vis-à-vis secondary
completion rates and cohort survival rates, although substantial efforts still need to be
undertaken to address the remaining challenge of improving secondary net enrolment
rates.

6.      Delays were encountered in the implementation of civil works and the
procurement of furniture and equipment due to: (i) The Special Allotment Release Order
(or SARO which is the “Authority to Spend?) was released by the Department of Budget
and Management only on February 15, 2013, more than a month after DepEd had
submitted the request for authorization to spend. This delayed the procurement process
for the construction of classrooms and LRMDCs; (ii) Bids lacked complying offerors.
This problem was particularly prevalent in areas located outside main towns or cities. In
the case of LRDMC equipment, there were either very few or no qualified bidders who
met the proposed technical specifications for ICT equipment.


7.      The time extension would allow the Department of Education (DepEd) to
complete the construction of classrooms and Learning Resource Management and
Development Centers and the procurement of various furniture and equipment for the
classrooms and centers. We believe that there is a case for a third extension of the project
for the following reasons:


      The Project is supporting the government’s priorities and the President’s major
       policy pronouncements to address classroom shortages and associated inputs such
       as furniture and equipment by 2014. While government has significantly
       increased its budget allocation for classroom construction and school furniture in
       the last two years, the significant shortage in terms of these inputs entails
       mobilizing other sources of funding to help address existing backlogs. The
       project’s contribution is especially significant, as it focuses its interventions in
       areas with acute classroom shortage in Southern Philippines, where many of the
       poor reside. Although DepEd commenced with the procurement activities for the
       construction of classrooms and Learning Resource and Management
       Development Centers (LRMDCs), and school furniture and equipment in mid-
       February, a number of bids failed due to the absence of qualified bidders. This
       was particularly prevalent in areas located outside main towns or cities. Extending
       the project closing date would allow the provision of these critical inputs in
       disadvantaged areas.

      Procurement of furniture and equipment for Learning Resource Management and
       Development Centers would be necessary to ensure maximum utilization of these
       learning resource hubs in strategic Regional and Division offices. These centers
       enhance access of students, teachers and school and division officials to updated,

                                             5
        quality-assured online teaching and learning materials. Non-extension of the
        project would constrain the full utilization of these centers.

8.       Progress towards achieving the Project Development Objectives (PDO) remains
satisfactory and achievable. However, recent implementation delays have led to a
downgrading of the Implementation Progress (IP) from “Moderately Satisfactory? to
“Moderately Unsatisfactory?. Nevertheless, based on an in-depth review of the
Department of Education’s (DepEd) detailed plans for the extension period, the
preliminary procurement processes either already completed or started, and the release of
the full amount of the required authority to spend, timely completion of the proposed
activities to be undertaken during the extension period is expected, which could
eventually justify a rating upgrade before the close of the project.

9.      The FM rating of the project is moderately unsatisfactory mainly because of the
qualified audit opinion for the 2011 project financial statements. This was due to: (i)
unliquidated cash advances; (ii) failure to conduct inventory count of Property, Plant and
Equipment; (iii) unreconciled balance in the “Subsidy to Operating Units? account; and (i v) non-
submission of the approved consultancy contract to the Commission on Audit. DepEd has
submitted the actions taken to address the issues raised by the auditors, and is preparing a detailed
action plan to address the qualification and to strengthen the internal controls and FM
environment in general. The actions taken are expected to minimize deficiencies in the 2012 audit
of project financial statements which will be due for submission on June 30, 2013. WB and
AusAID have been providing and will continue to provide technical support and assistance to the
DepEd to further strengthen their FM systems. Continuous monitoring shall also be made to
address the remaining actions by DepEd and improve the FM rating and bring it to satisfactory
level. DepEd is one of the pilots of the government-wide financial management information
system and implementation start-up is being fast-tracked to address the system-wide as well as
agency-specific issues.

10.      There have been issues and deficiencies in procurement planning and implementation and
in the procurement progress estimates and reporting of the Physical Facilities staff in charge of
the civil works component and the procurement of furniture. The DepEd Management has taken
the necessary steps to address these issues and have assigned experienced officers to take charge
of these component activities under the project. WB and AusAID technical assistance and
support are also being mobilized to ensure timely completion of the activities under this
component during the extension period. We have also reviewed the Revised Procurement
Plan for the remainder of the project and find that this provides a realistic picture of the
activities that can be successfully accomplished during the extension period. Nonetheless,
we estimate that due to foreign exchange gains since grant approval, around US$3
million in grant funds may remain unutilized at the end of the extension period.

11.    To ensure timely completion of the project activities, the team proposes to
continue close supervision. This entails the conduct of an implementation support
mission as well as interim support missions to monitor progress and ensure quality. Most
of the supervision costs (travel, per diem and consulting services) will be financed
through the Bank-executed portion of the SPHERE Trust Fund.

12.   The extension and restructuring of the project do not require any changes to the
PDOs, the design or scope of the project, the safeguards category or the financing
mechanisms.
                                                 6
C. PROPOSED CHANGES

13.     Grant Closing date extension. The closing date is proposed to be extended from
May 31, 2013 to November 30, 2013. The activities to be implemented during the
extension period include the construction of classrooms and LRMDCs, and the
procurement of school furniture and ICT equipment. A revised Procurement Plan and
Disbursement Schedule were prepared to complete the project. The Government has
recently complied with all grant covenants, which are necessary to process the extension
request. The time extension was approved by the donor, AusAID. The end disbursement
date will be May 31, 2014, and will also be reflected in the amended Administration
Agreement.




                                           7
