Report No. PID5746
Project Name                     Bhutan-Second Education
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       BT-PE-9574
Borrower                         The Kingdom of Bhutan
Implementation Agency            Education Division, Ministry of Health &
Education - Thimphu, Bhutan
Contact: Sangay Ngedup
Tel.: 975-2-23551
Fax: 975-2-24827 / 975-2-24533
Appraisal Date         October 1997
Date Prepared          July 1997
Project Board Date     January 1998
Country and Sector Background: Historically isolated, Bhutan did
not begin the process of economic modernization until the 1960s.
Since then, notable achievement has been made in basic
infrastructure and social development while preserving Bhutan's
unique environment. The country faces economic constraints similar
to many developing nations, including a heavy reliance upon foreign
assistance, few economies of scale, narrow range of local manpower
skills, and high vulnerability to external shocks. Per capita Gross
Domestic Product was US$545 in 1996, placing Bhutan slightly above
the middle range of low income countries. Agriculture is the
dominant sector of the economy, accounting for about 40 percent of
GDP and 85 percent of the population depends on it for livelihood.
Hydropower generation and energy-intensive industries are among the
most promising sectors for accelerating domestic growth and reducing
the danger of Government fiscal imbalances.
Modern education started in Bhutan in 1961 with the First Five Year
Plan. Until then, monastic education was virtually the only form of
education available within the country. The Government has a strong
commitment to educate its citizens and has invested heavily in the
education sector, creating a modern education system providing
largely free primary, secondary, and limited tertiary education
within Bhutan. Primary enrollment has grown at an impressive rate,
with gross enrollment rates expected to reach about 80 percent by
the end of the current 7th Plan period (1997), and the Government's
expectation is that universal primary education (UPE) can be
achieved during the 9th Five Year Plan period (by 2007).
The education system provides six years primary, four years
secondary, two years junior college and some three-year degree
programs in Bhutan. It enrolls about 92,000 students in 312 schools
and institutions. Of these, 150 primary schools, 107 - Community,
25 junior high and 13 high schools, and 7 private schools - offer



basic education. Currently a total of 59,000 primary level places
are provided in grades I-VI.
Noteworthy is the 9 percent annual growth in primary school
enrollment in the last four years linked to the expansion of lower
cost community schools, an affirmation of strong social demand for
education. This rate is significantly higher than the expected 6
percent annual growth forecast in the current 7th Five Year Plan.
Education in Bhutan has, until recently, been free at all levels
until the Education Division began requiring students in 14
designated urban areas to provide certain educational supplies for
their use. Girls represent 44 percent of total primary enrollment,
and this figure is climbing steadily without impediment.
Project Objectives. The main purpose of the project would be to
provide the capacity increase to meet Bhutan's targeted approach to
UPE, and initiate further development of secondary education as an
integral part of the 8th Five Year Plan. It would (a) increase
access to and efficiency of formal primary and secondary education;
(b) strengthen vocational education opportunities for school leavers
as warranted by cost-effective, market-based approaches; and (c)
strengthen operational efficiency and education support services
under a decentralized management system.
Project Description. The proposed project objectives would be
achieved through: (a) expansion of primary schools, including
community schools, and a significant increase in the limited number
of secondary school places; (b) improved dropout and repeater rates
through teacher education, curriculum and instructional material
development, educational assessment and examination improvements,
and provision of support services to primary and secondary schools;
(c) the introduction of user related vocational education policies
and limited strengthening of vocational training capacity on the
basis of realistic market opportunities, and (d) strengthening of
the decentralized administration and school management system.
Project Financing. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$15.5 million equivalent. IDA would finance about US$10 million
equivalent. The Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) would finance
about US$5.5 million equivalent. UNICEF and UNDP are also
considering financial support. Bhutan's contribution would be up to
10 percent of the IDA financing.
Project Implementation. The project will be implemented in the
Education Division of the Ministry of Health & Education. As in the
ongoing Primary Education Project, overall project coordination is
expected to be handled by the Education Division through a
designated coordinator, and appropriately supported by staff of the
Division trained in project management procedures, procurement and
disbursement. Technical design and supervisory services will be
provided by the Schools Planning and Building Cell of the Ministry
(also under the purview of the Education Division), and standardized
plans and bidding documents already available will be used as far as
possible. As part of an ongoing program of education management
decentralization, the Government of Bhutan intends to decentralize
- 2 -



construction supervision responsibility to District (Dzongkhag)
level offices. By appraisal, arrangements would be worked out for
appropriate staffing and accountability, and appropriate monitoring
and evaluation indicators would be established.
Project Sustainability: The Government attaches high priority to
the quality of education as a determinant of development and
sustaining its investments in education. These priorities area
reflected in the national plans and the attention given to plan
implementation. Education costs in Bhutan are relatively high and
arise in part from difficult geography (e.g., boarding requirement
at all levels) and a positive investment in quality through teacher
training, educational materials provision and physical facilities.
However, repeater rates are also relatively high. The need to
expand education access comes at a time of fiscal constraint for
Bhutan, until ongoing investments in the power and industry sectors
reach their expected revenue generation levels. This will require
careful examination of cost-effective approaches to the sector
during project formulation.
Project Impact: The proposed project would support human resource
development through increased access, quality of instruction and
efficiency of the management of primary and secondary education. By
extending primary education to all eligible school-age children and
the expansion of secondary education within prudent financing
limits, the Government will enhance the opportunities available to
all socio-economic groups of Bhutanese to benefit from a quality
basic education.
Environmental Aspects. The Government of Bhutan attaches high
priority to environmental protection. The proposed project would
not raise any environmental or natural resources management issues.
The expected construction of school buildings would be on a small
scale and create only a limited temporary environmental disturbance.
Locally available natural materials such as stone, clay tiles, and
renewable timber resources would be used for construction.
Therefore, the environmental category C is being assigned to the
project.
Lessons from Previous IDA: Operations Bhutan has only received one
IDA Credit for the population/human resources sector, Credit 1899-
BHU for the Bhutan Primary Education Project, which is scheduled to
close on June 30, 1997. The project is being satisfactorily
implemented after overcoming the challenges of Bhutan's geography
and fledging construction industry. Institutional development has
been a positive feature, and significant capacity increase has been
achieved. Technical assistance has been effectively utilized.
Program Objective Categories: Gender Dimensions of Development:
There are no barriers to female education per se, and the progress
in female primary enrollment (44 percent) is expected to translate
into similar rates at the secondary level. However, progress in
girls' education will be discussed during preparation and
appropriate measures built into the project if shown to be necessary
during preparation.
-3-



Contact Point:            The World Bank Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note:      This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop week ending November 14, 1997.
4
-4-



