                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34674

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (TF-29643 TF-25471 IDA-30440)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 10.1MILLION

                                         TO THE KINGDOM OF

                                                BHUTAN

                                                   FOR

                                   SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT




                                             March 31, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Ngultrum (Nu.)
                 45.05 Ngultrum = US$ 1.00
                       US$ 1.00 = 45.05 Ngultrum

                        FISCAL YEAR
                        July 1    June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

8FYP        8th Five-Year Plan
9FYP        9th Five-Year Plan
BBE         Bhutan Board of Examinations
B.Ed.       Bachelor of Education
CA          Continuous Assessment
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CAPSD       Curriculum and Professional Support Division
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
DADM        Department of Aid and Debt Management
DEO         District Education Officer
EFA         Education for All
EMSD        Education Monitoring and Support Division
GER         Gross Enrollment Rate
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HRD         Human Resource Development
IDA         International Development Association
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
LGSF        Light Gauge Steel Frame
MDG         Millennium Development Goals
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOHE        Ministry of Health and Education
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NAPE        New Approach to Primary Education
NER         Net Enrollment Rate
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NIE         National Institutes of Education
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PGCE        Post-Graduate Certification of Education
PITT        Partnership in Teacher Tranining
PIU         Project Implementatiton Unit
PPD         Policy and Planning Division
PTC         Primary Teaching Certificate
RAA         Royal Audit Authority
RC          Resource Center
RGOB        Royal Government of Bhutan
SCF-US      Save the Children Fund-US

SDC       Swiss Development Cooperation
SEP       Second Education Project
SPBC      School Planning and Building Cell
SRP       Supplementary Reading Program
STEP      Support for Teacher Education Program
TF        Trust Fund
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO    United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
WFP       World Food Programme
ZTC       Dzongkha Teaching Certificate

              Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
            Country Director      Alastair McKechnie
             Sector Manager       Michelle Riboud
              Task Manager:       Mark F. LaPrairie

                                           BHUTAN
                             SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P009574                                                  Project Name: EDUCATION II
Team Leader: Mark LaPrairie                                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: EDUCATION II                                             L/C/TF Number: TF-29643; TF-25471;
                                                                                                     IDA-30440
   Country/Department: BHUTAN                                                             Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (76%); Central government administration (8%); Tertiary education (8%);
                            Sub-national government administration (7%); Vocational training (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social risk mitigation (P);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/11/1996                                     Effective: 06/25/1998                06/25/1998
     Appraisal: 12/10/1997                                         MTR: 11/04/2001                  11/04/2001
      Approval: 03/03/1998                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Kingdom of Bhutan/Ministry of Education, Royal Government of Bhutan
                      Other Partners:      Royal Government of Bhutan (US$1.96 million); and Swiss Development
                                           Cooperation (US$5.53 million)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:                Alastair J. Mckechnie                          Robert Drysdale
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark F. LaPrairie                              Grant Sinclair
ICR Primary Author:             Scherezad Joya Monami Latif


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project goal of the `Second Education Project' (SEP) was to assist the Royal Government of
Bhutan (RGOB) in increasing access to and the quality of publicly-financed education, particularly at the
lower secondary school level (grades 7-8). This was to be achieved through building and strengthening
physical and institutional capacities to provide higher quality basic education to more children and youth,
with particular focus on addressing needs in rural areas where access to post-primary education was
limited.

The project's specific objectives were to: (i) increase the number of graduates from basic education and
provide sufficient new entrants to existing training programs to fill labor demands; (ii) raise the level of
learning in basic education through improved teacher training and teaching-learning activities; and, (iii)
strengthen the quality of management within the education sector in support of RGOB's decentralization
objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
SEP's objectives were not formally revised during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$21.18 million equivalent. Of this, US$13.69 million
equivalent was IDA credit, US$5.53 million equivalent was a Swiss Development Cooperation's (SDC)
grant, and US$1.96 million equivalent was provided by RGOB as counterpart funding.

The project comprised four main components and several sub-components, as follows:

Component 1: Increasing and upgrading facilities for basic education (US$12.15 million equivalent,
or 57 percent of total base cost). This component aimed to provide additional student places at the lower
secondary school level to address the requirements of the increasing number of children completing the full
cycle of primary education, particularly in remote areas. This was to be achieved through constructing new
schools, substantially upgrading existing schools, and supporting decentralized construction.

Component 2: Expanding and improving teacher education (US$1.49 million equivalent, or 7 percent
of total base cost). This component's objective was to increase the supply of well trained teachers who
have completed the full course of pre-service teacher training at the National Institutes of Education (NIE)
in Paro and Samtse through: a) development of additional programs for teacher training; b) enhancement of
teacher quality through curriculum review and further development of teaching skills; and c) supporting
central, dzongkhag (district) and school based in-service training. The component was financed by the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and its local implementing partner, Helvetas.

Component 3: Improving teaching and learning processes (US$2.48 million equivalent, or 11.9
percent of total base cost). This component aimed to make curricula more responsive to Bhutan's needs
and improving the learning environment and learning outcomes of students.

Component 4: Strengthening the management and administration of basic education (US$2.54
equivalent, or 12 percent of total base cost). This component aimed at upgrading competencies of the
existing staff at the central, dzongkhag and school levels in managing educational change within the new
decentralized system. It also aimed to enhance the efficiency of the central level education offices by
providing them with essential materials and equipment.



                                                      - 2 -

An additional amount of US$2.52m was allocated for contingencies.

3.4 Revised Components:
SEP's components were not revised during the course of the project's life, although the implementation
period was increased from five years to seven years and three months through three extensions to the
project closing date. The first extension, from September 30, 2003 to June 30, 2004, was granted in order
to account for delays in the completion of civil works owing to the prevailing security situation in southern
Bhutan, soil erosion and the unavailability of some locally-available school building materials (e.g. timber,
stones). The second and third extensions, cumulatively from June 30, 2004 to September 30, 2005, were
granted to allow for the completion of the last two schools, one of which was rendered inaccessible for
several months following torrential rains and flooding during the 2004 monsoon season.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The ICR rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. Formal quality at entry criteria were not
available at the time of SEP's preparation and appraisal. Quality at entry can be assessed based on the fact
that from its inception the project was strongly focused on agreed development objectives which did not
change throughout its duration. The project design was consistent with the Bhutan Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) at the time of preparation and with the follow-on CAS. As a follow-on project after the
IDA-financed Primary Education Project, SEP filled a financing gap in the RGOB's 8th Five-Year Plan
(8FYP). Its design benefited from thorough preparation and client consultations. SEP's design supported
the RGOB's commitment to: (a) improving the quality of primary education and responded to its goal to
expand basic education to grades 7 and 8; (b) increase the number of children completing the full cycle of
primary education (pre-primary to grade 6); and (c) increase the number of teachers in the system to meet
increasing enrollment levels, all of which were consistent with the 8FYP's education sector development
goals. One area of weakness was the key performance indicators (KPIs), as discussed below.

SEP incorporated a number of lessons learned from its predecessor, the Primary Education Project (PEP),
including: (i) the importance of careful site selection, with an emphasis on school upgrading rather than the
construction of new schools; (ii) the importance of the use of high quality training programs, particularly to
build capacities in specialized fields; and (iii) the need to strengthen monitoring and evaluation measures to
carry out on-going review of progress, and to develop capacities for this within key units of the MOE.
SEP's aims and designs took into account both global and regional priorities in education, particularly in
its aim to provide increased opportunities for completing the full cycle of basic education beyond the
primary cycle, and its emphasis on the relevance and quality of the teaching-learning process. The specific
content of the project was decided upon and designed jointly by RGOB, the World Bank and a key bilateral
development partner, Switzerland. The Borrower considered the project to have been timely and has
consistently displayed a strong sense of ownership of the project. SEP's development objective was relevant
insofar as it aimed to address the country's serious lack of trained professionals in the education sector and,
more generally, low levels of literacy (estimated at only 54 percent for adults 18-55 years in 1998) and low
secondary school enrollment rates (estimated at only 54.2 percent in 1998). SEP's objectives were clear
and well understood by the Borrower, and the complexity of the project is assessed to have been
appropriate in terms of the number of components, institutional arrangements, co-financing arrangements
and the number of institutional reforms sought.

The project was rated `C' for environmental impact, indicating that no major adverse environmental effects
were anticipated as a result of its implementation. Similarly, no adverse social impacts were anticipated. It
appears that these ratings were accurate as no negative environmental or social effects have been noted to
date.



                                                        - 3 -

Monitoring and Evaluation
The key performance indicators (KPIs) agreed at appraisal proved to be difficult for the implementation
team to work with and of limited utility to both the Bank and RGOB insofar as they did not reflect
meaningful measures of project progress. A number of indicators listed as outcome/impact indicators were,
in effect, output, or even input indictors. For example, for improved instructional quality and interaction in
the classroom, the number of schools covered and teachers trained are not outcome nor impact measures.
Throughout the life of SEP there was inconsistent and irregular updating of performance indicators,
primarily because the counterpart team in the MOE found the KPIs unwieldy and confusing. This was
compounded by the relative inexperience of the last two MOE Project Coordinators in the area of indicator
monitoring. Additionally, end-of-project targets were not clearly defined for most indicators (see Annex 1).

This has had a particular impact on extent to which one could ascertain if there has been a discernible
improvement in teaching-learning processes and instructional quality. While anecdotal evidence strongly
indicates that there has indeed been an important shift toward improved teaching-learning processes (even if
largely limited to, in the first instance, shifting educators' understanding of what constitutes a positive
learning environment and teaching approach), this cannot easily be supported by the KPIs given their
inherent deficiencies, as discussed later in this report.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Achievement of the project's objectives is rated `Satisfactory' based on the following key
outcomes:
  ·   29 percent increase in the gross enrollment rate (GER) for basic education (kindergarten to grade 10)
  ·   higher passing scores on grade 6 and 8 examinations (from 83 percent passing in 1998 to 98 percent
      in 2004)
  ·   increased availability of teaching learning materials
  ·   improved system of teacher training through the expansion of the National Institute of Education,
      Paro (one of two teacher training institutes in Bhutan)
  ·   improvements to in-service teacher training through decentralized teacher support services
  ·   strengthened management of basic education at the center, dzongkhag and school levels through
      comprehensive human resource development and staffing
  ·   improved decentralized supervisory and monitoring systems at the center, dzongkhag and school
      levels
  ·   institutionalization of decentralized participatory planning and decision-making at the national and
      dzongkhag levels
  ·   increase in the number of of hostel places for girls whose participation at the secondary level lags
      behind that of boys

Achievement of these outcomes is more significant when understood in the context of the relatively short
period of time in which a modern system of education has been in existence in Bhutan. From 11 schools
with 17 teachers and about 400 students during the time of the First Five-Year Plan in 1961, there are now
476 schools and institutes ranging from primary schools to tertiary level institutes, 4,000 teachers and
162,056 students from pre-primary to the undergraduate degree level (the total population of Bhutan is
668,876). Bhutan has instituted major education system reform starting with the first IDA-financed project,
followed by SEP and continues this process now through the on-going Education Development Project
(EDP). Today, primary GER stands at 87.8 percent (2005), primary completion rate is at 85.9 percent
(2004), there is a steadily declining drop-out rate, currently only 2.1 percent at the primary level, and



                                                        - 4 -

Bhutan has achieved near gender parity at the primary and middle school levels.

In assessing SEP's achievements from a long-term perspective, Bhutan has largely put into place the basic
foundations for further education system development by initiating a number of qualitative reform
measures which were new to the Bhutan context and, in many respects, to the South Asia region. These
include the provision of supplementary reading materials as part of a national reading program, the
establishment of resource centers (RCs) to support improved teaching, particularly in remote areas, and
strengthened human resource capacities, focusing heavily on the role of school heads to support teachers
and guide school improvement. SEP also contributed importantly to shifting mindsets among people both
within the education sector and in the public at large. Along with other RGOB-led measures carried out
simultaneously with SEP, the project has helped raise the status of the teaching profession, increased the
specialized skill base within the education sector, and put into place improved standards for the physical
requirements of schools, underscoring the importance of an attractive and suitable environment to foster
learning. On this last point, SEP has resulted in the successful (albeit delayed) construction of a number of
well-designed schools which have increased access to schooling at the lower secondary level for
disadvantaged children in rural areas and which adhere to cultural norms for architecture and design.

A key ingredient in the satisfactory achievement of SEP's objectives was the early close involvement of
RGOB in the project's preparation which resulted in a high level of RGOB ownership and effective
implementation of the project by the MOE. This is reflected by the high priority RGOB placed on achieving
continued improvements in access and quality in the education sector, and systematic increases to the
education budget to support such measures. A number of other development partners support education
system development in Bhutan (e.g. Canada, Denmark, India, Japan, Switzerland, UNICEF, UNESCO,
UNFPA, SCF-US and WFP). The MOE coordinates all donor inputs using the most current five-year plan
to guide education system development. Most donor-financed activities are implemented by the MOE as
part of its regular functioning, and are positioned such that there is a high degree of complementarity
among activities. For example, during the period of SEP, UNICEF provided materials for the establishment
of new community schools, while IDA financed the construction of lower secondary schoools which are
intended to absorb community school graduates. The total outlay for the education sector under the Ninth
Five-Year Plan (9FYP) from 2002-2007 is Nu.10.2 billion, equivalent to approximately 14.6 percent of all
government expenditure during the plan period.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Increasing and Upgrading Facilities for Basic Education

Satisfactory. Access to and the quality of the learning environment at the basic education level has
improved significantly under SEP, particularly for the poor and disadvanted in remote areas. Schools
constructed/upgraded under SEP are located in some of the most remote parts of the country. SEP-financed
school construction/upgrading has provided education opportunities in the home locality of many children
(or, at least, in their home dzongkhag). In the past, children seeking to study at the secondary level often
had to leave their home areas to do so.

Eleven lower and middle secondary schools were constructed under SEP. This was reduced from the
project's initial target of 12 schools to absorb cost escalations resulting from a change in RGOB's timber
policy. This reduction in the number of schools was achieved, however, without reducing the project's
target for additional student places. Indicators measuring efficiency, including establishment of an
improved teaching-learning environment for 7,720 students and 3,701 additional student places indicate
that the project surpassed its targets with a net gain of 5,600 student places (based on 40 students per
classroom in 140 new classrooms). GER for basic education (kindergarten-grade 10) increased by 29
percent, surpassing the project target of 16 percent. There is gender parity at the primary level, and this



                                                      - 5 -

will soon be achieved at the lower and middle secondary levels. SEP has fostered a more conducive
learning environment through the establishment of schools with facilities to promote learning and students'
overall well-being, including games and sports venues, safe drinking water, and sanitation and boarding
facilities. Hostels are of importance to children in remote areas who otherwise may not be able to continue
their education beyond the primary level. This is particularly true for girls whose participation at the
secondary level lags behind that of boys. Hostel facilities for girls are key inputs for supporting girls'
enrollment at the secondary level, particularly in rural areas. SEP financed the establishment of eight new
boarding facilities providing accommodation for 2,365 students.

SEP experienced significant delays as a result of this major component. With the exception of two schools
completed during the first half of the project, all other schools' completion was delayed up to an average of
36 months to complete a school (140 and 190 percent beyond the contracted period), thus necessitating
three Closing Date extensions. Delays were partly a result of a new labor policy introduced by RGOB in
2002 restricting the number of non-national laborers at each construction site. This was particularly
problematic given the highly labor-intensive building methods used at the time, including the hand-cutting
of stones for masonry walls. Contract values for schools varied between approximately US$0.5m to
US$1.2m. Completion costs averaged between 5 and 25 percent higher than contracted amounts, due
primarily to variations in quantities and price adjustments.

Achievements under this component are commendable considering the difficult working conditions in
Bhutan including: (i) remoteness and lack of easy access to school building sites; (ii) extreme cold in some
of places, particularly in northern dzongkhags and at high elevation sites; (iii) limited experience of
contractors to execute such large jobs; and (iv) the non-availability of skilled national labor. Lessons
learned under SEP led to the development and adoption of new building methods for the follow-on
IDA-financed 'Education Development Project' (EDP). SEP's experience of transportation difficulties,
limited availability of materials and labour scarcity led RGOB to adopt the use of 'light gauge steel frame'
(LGSF) construction. LGSF involves the assembly of prefabriacted steel units, substantially reducing
construction time and reliance on materials such as timber and stones. LGSF is also being implemented as
a means to increase the appeal of modern building trades to school leavers who face, for the first time in the
country's history, the prospect of unemployment at the completion of secondary school.

Component II: Expanding and Improving Teacher Education

Satisfactory. This component was financed by SDC. It was successful in expanding and improving the
quality of teacher education. Implementation ran smoothly and was completed by December 31, 2003 when
SDC's financing to SEP ended. SDC's support of teacher education, particularly for pre-service teacher
training, has continued under its follow-on program, 'Support for Teacher Education Program' (STEP),
started in January 2004 until December 2007. Sharp increases in student enrollment over the past decade
have resulted from shifting public sentiments on the importance of education for children and Bhutan's
commitment to the global 'education for all' agenda. These have led to teacher shortages in most parts of the
country, particularly in rural areas. SEP has helped to improve the supply of teachers in both rural and
urban areas and lowered the teacher-student ratio, resulting in higher quality classroom interaction.

A. Teacher-Pupil Ratios
Level                          1999    2000     2001      2002    2003    2004      2005
Community Primary              50      47       43        40      38      35        34
Primary                        43      44       42        38      37      35        33
Lower Secondary                41      39       40        36      34      33        33

Expansion of the teacher training capacity. Indicators to measure improved quality of teacher education



                                                       - 6 -

were: (i) annual output of 60 additional teachers for grades 7 and 8 from the two NIEs; and (ii) improved
relevance and standards for teacher competency through improved pre- and in-service training. While the
average annual teacher output of 38 new teachers for grades 7 and 8 was lower than the project target of
60, output of newly trained teachers by the NIEs has steadily improved over the past six years. The total
number of teachers trained during the period of SEP is 2,174. While teacher shortages still persist (most
notably for secondary level mathematics and science), enrolment in the two NIEs has increased steadily, as
noted below. The instructor-trainee ratio in the NIEs has also improved from 1:36 at the project start to
1:34 at project closing.

B. Enrollment in Teacher Training Institutes
Year                 Institute             Male                 Female              Total
1998                 Samtse                91                   116                 207
                     Paro                  122                  158                 280
                     Total                 213                  274                 487
1999                 Samtse                155                  112                 267
                     Paro                  217                  229                 446
                     Total                 372                  341                 713
2000                 Samtse                177                  101                 278
                     Paro                  323                  271                 594
                     Total                 500                  372                 872
2001                 Samtse                202                  78                  280
                     Paro                  361                  334                 695
                     Total                 563                  412                 975
2002                 Samtse                262                  118                 380
                     Paro                  330                  303                 633
                     Total                 592                  421                 1013
2003                 Samtse                224                  120                 344
                     Paro                  337                  319                 656
                     Total                 561                  439                 1000
2004                 Samtse                327                  162                 489
                     Paro                  355                  282                 637
                     Total                 682                  444                 1126


C. Teacher Training College Graduates
Year          PTC             ZTC             B.Ed.            PGCE           Total
1998          95              34              41               24             194
1999          147             37              29               36             249
2000          123             20              17               40             239
2001          289             33              63               52             437
2002          148             32              165              46             337
2003          170             38              139              56             403
2004          n/a             37              177              46             260


Improvement of teaching quality in teacher training institutions. This sub-component included all activities
under the SDC­financed Partnership in Teacher Training (PITT) between NIEs Paro and Samtse and the
Pedagogical University, Zurich. PITT had been implemented for ten years before it became part of SEP
from 1998 to 2003. Under SEP, PITT's activities were expanded to include a number of concepts new to
the teaching-learning process in Bhutan, including continuous assessment (CA), resource centers,



                                                     - 7 -

multi-grade teaching, cluster-schools and updated curricula. A final review of PITT carried out in February
2003 assessed this partnership as having produced positive results for improving teacher training at the
NIEs. This sub-component included short- and long-term training abroad for teacher trainers.

In-service training. In-service teacher training activities under SEP comprised mostly of annual workshops
of short duration, usually during the annual winter school holidays. During SEP, a large proportion of
Bhutan's practicing teachers (particularly at the primary level), head teachers and DEOs (233 participants
in 2001/2002 and 387 participants in 2002/2003) received training during winter workshops. Topics
covered included a wide range of topics including head teacher training, continuous assessment, non-formal
education, library management, career counseling and monitoring and evaluation.There has more recently
been a shift toward the use of dzongkhag, cluster and school-based in-service training programs to keep
pace with rapid expansion in the number of teachers and schools.

Component III: Improving Teaching and Learning Processes

Satisfactory. SEP introduced a number of new initiatives which represent good practice for education
system development, and stand in marked contrast to earlier teaching-learning approaches emphasizing rote
learning and minimized student participation. To measure an improved teaching-learning environment,
processes and results, the project preparation team selected as key indicators: (i) improvement in students'
tests scores at Grade 8 (based primarily on examination results at that time); (ii) improved instructional
quality and interaction in the classroom; (iii) the introduction of continuous assessment; and (iv) improved
reading habits. As indicated in Annex 1, there has been an improvement in average test scores during the
period of SEP.

In assessing the impact of inputs under Component 3, it is important to note that the monitoring/evaluation
of teaching-learning practices is inherently more difficult than is the case of many other aspects of
education system change. Such assessment generally requires extensive classroom observations and other
qualitative evaluation measures to ascertain the extent to which teachers are able to adopt and implement
new teaching-learning approaches. Such shifts are largely generational in nature. SEP introduced a number
of initiatives aimed at improving teaching-learning process which, in most cases, were unfamiliar to
teachers as they differed markedly from their own learning experiences as children. It is not unexpected,
therefore, that teachers would have difficulty comprehending and utilizing new approaches to
teaching-learning. The fact that SEP exposed teachers to new concepts to improve instructional quality and
initial practice to implement them is viewed as an important achievement of the project.

Curriculum Development: Activities financed under SEP included short- and long-term fellowships in
curriculum development for mathematics, English and science. New curricula for grade 6 social studies,
grades 4 to 8 science, and grade 7 geography were introduced in 2003.

Continuous Assessment (CA). This sub-component developed models and procedures to implement CA in
schools, and provided training to teachers and head teachers to enhance their competence to implement it.
The CA program was one of the most methodically planned activities under SEP. CA was introduced as an
in-service pilot at the beginning of the project, and by 2003 had been fully integrated into the pre-service
teacher training program. CA concepts and materials have been translated into Dzongkha, as a number of
core subjects are taught in Dzongkha at the lower primary level. CA has been instituted in all primary and
lower secondary schools, and is being progressively introduced at the middle and higher secondary levels.
Large class sizes pose an impediment to the successful implementation of CA. A study planned under EDP
will examine CA's current status and ways to institutionalize it more effectively.

Examinations and standardized testing. Under SEP, examinations have moved from being the sole


                                                       - 8 -

determinants for promotion to their use as tools for evaluating the effectiveness of the teaching-learning
process and providing information for better planning. Between 1998 and 2004, the pass rate for Grade
VIII examinations went up from 83 percent to 98 percent. MOE has successfully carried out: (i) the
development and institutionalization of a national assessment framework; (ii) the development of test
instruments for grade 6 English and mathematics; (iii) strengthened capacities within the Bhutan Board of
Examinations (BBE) through external technical assistance and short- and long-term training abroad,
particularly for the development and use of standardized tests; and (iv) the development and piloting of
results analysis of standardized tests and the production of administrators' manuals for grade 6 English and
mathematics. Bhutan's efforts to develop a comprehensive system of national assessment, partly through its
participation in a regional grouping of countries having the same goal, has resulted in Bhutan being
identified as a leader among developing countries in Asia in policy and practice in this area, based on
feedback from a South Asia region-wide series of workshops on National Education Assessment sponsored
by the World Bank Institute.

Resource Centers (RC). This sub-component aimed at improving instructional quality in schools by
networking several schools with a nearby RC for the purpose of facilitating learning and enriching school
life through teamwork and the sharing of common teaching experiences of teachers, especially in remote
areas. Topics for in-service workshops were determined either on an as-needed basis to meet teachers'
immediate classroom needs and/or as a means to disseminate information from national workshops. All
RCs have been supplied with equipment and materials, including reference and story books, teaching aids,
stationary, computers, printers, portable generators, and machines for duplication, lamination and binding.
Each RC has a cluster of schools in its local vicinity which it supports and which can avail of its resources.
An evaluation of the first pilot RCs, undertaken in advance of the MTR, helped modify this
sub-component's implementation. In particular, the appointment of a full-time RC Coordinator helped
focus RC activities and provided better continuity of RC activities throughout the country. At present, there
are 21 RCs in 13 dzongkhags. The project target was the establishment of 20 RCs.

Vocational-technical elementary skills. Technical-vocational clubs were established in nine lower and
middle secondary schools to orientate students in basic carpentry, electrical and plumbing skills. In 2002,
the sub-component was expanded to include vocational skills training as part of pre-service teacher
education in the NIEs. A total of 1,256 students had participated in these clubs by SEP's closing,
exceeding the project target of 1,100. Responsibility for this pilot program was transferred several times
between different entities within RGOB. Vocational training has been de-linked from the general academic
program in schools and is now under the prevue of the Ministry of Labor and Human Resources
(MOLHR).

In 2003, each of the nine school clubs received vocational reference materials and white boards, plus tools
and accessories for student instruction and practical skills development. A 2003 SDC evaluation found that
vocational clubs in schools have been largely successful in: (i) teaching basic skills; (ii) building students'
self-esteem; and (iii) providing useful services to the local community.

Supplementary reading program. A major contribution of this sub-component has been that reading and the
development of reading and study skills now constitute a priority area of attention in Bhutan's education
system. Activities under this sub-component included in-service training workshops for SRP coordinators
from primary and lower secondary schools on library management. A reading strategies booklet was
developed and distributed to all schools. The NIE English Department conducted a survey in autumn 2003
to assess the impact of the SRP. Schools with trained SRP focal persons had annual reading plans, whereas
the use of activities to promote reading was largely ad hoc in non-SRP schools.




                                                      - 9 -

Component IV: Strengthening the Management and Administration of Basic Education

Satisfactory. This component satisfactorily contributed to development in the area of capacity building
among MOE personnel at all levels (central, dzongkhag, school) during SEP. Training under this
component consisted of both long- and short-term fellowships. Specific areas for training included school
administration and management, procurement, human resource management, vocational training, aptitude
testing and public finance and budgeting, among others. Under SEP a school management guide has been
developed and regular school monitoring by EMSD, DEOs and focal persons (trained as part of the
project) has been institutionalized. There are now 273 personnel at MOE with strengthened capacity and a
total of 43 DEOs/Assistant DEOs in the country's 20 dzonkhags.


The multi-grade teaching attachment program in collaboration with the University of New England in
Armidale, Australia provided practicing primary school teachers with exposure to good practice in
multi-grade classroom settings, usually in rural, one-room schools in the Australian outback. This program
successfully provided Bhutanese teachers first-hand exposure to a variety of approaches for managing
multi-ability and multi-grade learning environments. A second major area of support under this component
was the establishment of an improved education monitoring system under the Education Monitoring and
Support Division (EMSD). Education monitoring has been identified by MOE as a priority area for
education system development. Training was provided to education officials at all levels to carry out
school-level monitoring and support functions.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It is difficult to estimate the project's precise economic rate of return for several reasons: (i) individual
returns to education are unknown; (ii) the general equilibrium impact of an increase in the education levels
on individual earnings is unknown; (iii) until national census results are released, there will be uncertainty
as to population figures and, consequently, on the project's impact incidence. The impact of education on
household consumption is considerable, and the project is likely to produce considerable monetary gains.
The 2005 Bhutan National Human Development Report states that: "RGOB has from the inception of
planned development provided for well-structured social sector expenditures that have yielded large
dividends for health and education. The budget allocation for social sector expenditures increased
significantly each plan period and currently constitutes 24 percent of the 9FYP budget, or roughly 11.5
percent of GDP on an annual basis. Annual budgeted public expenditures for education alone constitute
around 7 percent of GDP, a very high level of investment by any standard. On a per capita basis, public
expenditure on education and health in Bhutan is estimated at around US$ 108, which compares favourably
with most developing countries. By all measures, the country's public expenditures in the social sectors
have been extremely generous and essentially directed toward expanding basic health care and primary
education. This has been possible largely due to the significant growth in public revenues arising from
sustained economic growth, and strong donor support for social sector programs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
School construction under SEP is likely to yield large return, economic and noneconomic. The
establishment of an additional 5,600 school seats is likely to increase the probability for children aged five
to 18 to be enrolled by about six percent, and the probability to complete grade 8 by about 3.6 percent.
Regressions for the determinants of per capita household consumption indicate that a household head
having at least grade 8 education is expected to have an income of approximately 34 percent more than
someone with an education below grade 8. The increase associated with the spouse having attained grade 8
or more is about 15 percent. With a total GDP of US$687.9 million in 2004, a total project cost of
US$21.18m, and a life expectancy of schools of about 20 years, the project is likely to yield high returns.




                                                      - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has significantly contributed to strengthening institutional capacities within the education sector
in Bhutan. At the central level of the MOE, this is illustrated by the rise in increased capacity to plan,
design, implement, monitor and evaluate education system functioning in almost all of its key units
including CAPSD, EMDS, BBE, SBPD and the Policy and Planning Division (PPD). This was achieved in
two ways: (i) through day-to-day management of SEP-financed activities given the fact that project
management was carried out as part of the regular functioning of the MOE; and (ii) through specialized
training for key personnel in these units as part of SEP's human resource development inputs. SEP was
implemented during a period when RGOB undertook a major reoganization of government structure in
Bhutan, including the bifurcation of the Ministry of Health and Education into two separate ministries.
Given the good level of collaboration between tthe Bank and RGOB teams for oversight of SEP, these
transitions were smoothly undertaken with no discernible negative effect on the smooth implementation of
the project.

At the dzongkhag level, SEP can take partial credit for significantly improving the capacity of dzongkhag
education officers. As part of a government-wide agenda for increased decentralization, dzongkhag-level
authorities across sectors were being given increased responsibilities and required to have a higher level of
educational and experiential qualifications for assuming those positions. Today, Dzongkhag Education
Officers (DEOs) are expected to function as dynamic education leaders capable of guiding overall
education sytem development in their dzongkhags.

At the school level, the combination of better trained teachers coming out of the NIEs, the presence of
teachers who have been identified for their skill and potential as RC coordinators, and heads of schools who
have received a considerable amount of in-service professional upgrading has set the stage for schools to
increasingly become places of more meaningful professional practice. SEP has helped to solidify the
foundation for initiatives introduced under the 'New Approach to Primary Education' (NAPE) introduced in
the mid-1980s. NAPE represented a major shift in pedagogic thinking and practice, and SEP has helped the
inputs of NAPE mature. These reforms will become more 'second-nature' as the education system develops
over the coming years.

The project could have benefited from increased scrutiny of progress reports on the part of MOE
management prior to being forwarded to the Bank in advance of regular supervision missions. There was a
lack of effective hand-over between component managers during staffing re-alignments, and there were
intermittent problems during much of SEP's implementation concerning financial management.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
a.       Security situation in southern Bhutan. Soon after SEP's preparation and effectiveness, Bhutan
entered a period of insecurity stemming from political turbulence in its southern dzongkhags. At various
points during the early 1990s, entire parts of Bhutan's southern belt were inaccessible to both foreigners
and non-essential government staff. In some southern dzongkhags, schools were closed and/or damaged,
populations were dispersed (with a large number of people leaving the country for neighbouring Nepal) and
there was the constant threat of violence and unrest. As a result, some activities under SEP, including
school construction, had to be curtailed as they were planned for implementation in areas which had
become insecure and inaccessible.

b.       Natural disasters. Unusually heavy monsoon rains during the summer of 2004 caused widespread
destruction in eastern Bhutan. In particular, the Radhi valley and towns of Lhuntenzampa and



                                                     - 11 -

Bunaranjung, site of an SEP-financed school construction project, suffered extensive damage, including
loss of life. Owing to Bhutan's mountainous terrain and fragile road network, torrential monsoon rains and
subsequent flooding and landslides rendered the area inaccessible for several months. This caused
considerable delays in the completion of the school at Bunaranjung.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
a.       Restrictions on the use of non- national labour. RGOB's introduction in 2002 of limits on the
number of non-national labourers (mostly unskilled Indian workers) allowed to work in the country delayed
SEP's implementation. At some school construction sites which previously had over 100 non-national
workers, the non-national labour force was reduced to less than 20 workers at certain times. While the
decision to limit the number of non-national laborers was taken by the Ministry fo Home and Cultural
Affairs, and which the DOE/MOE was obliged to implement, it remained within the overall realm of
RGOB's control.

b.       Timely submission of audit reports. Audit of SEP was the responsibility of the Royal Audit
Authority (RAA). Almost without exception, audit reports were received up to two-to-three months late
and, in most cases, only following reminders to the Borrower from the Bank. This suggests that additional
measures needed to be taken by all parties involved in carrying out audit and fudiciary functions, including
the Department of Aid and Debt Management (DADM), MOE and RAA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
a.       Unrealistic performance indicators. A number of performance indicators proved to be difficult
and, in some cases, impossible to update. For example, the indicator which called for the number of new
teachers graduating from the pre-service teacher training program was unrealistic as there is no accurate
means of tabulating how many new graduates end up teaching at those specific grade levels once they finish
pre-service training. This indicator does not reflect how teachers are prepared in pre-service training (i.e.
either for the primary or the secondary level, but not specifically for the lower secondary level which
includes grades 7 and 8).

b.       Exposure to field-level activities. Component managers had little opportunity to gain first-hand
understanding of the status of project activities through field visits. Despite the heavy work load for most
component managers, it was important that sufficient time be allocated for this.

c.       Appointment of junior staff for project coordination. During the first half of the project's
implementation period, SEP was coordinated by an experienced officer within PPD. In the latter half of the
project's life, following the departure of this senior Project Coordinator, relatively junior and inexperienced
officers were put in charge of SEP's coordination. While this had the obvious benefit of providing
substantial on-the-job training to these individuals (who, it must be noted, did a commendable job of
fulfilling their tasks), it was also found that the combination of their status within the MOE and
inexperience overall were impediments to more effective project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was US$21.18m. External financing was provided though a co-financing
agreement between the IDA and Switzerland, with IDA providing US$13.69m, Switzerland US$5.53m and
RGOB providing US$1.96m in counterpart financing. The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
supported the program through direct financing to RGOB for the establishment of RCs and for the teacher
attachment program with the University of New England (Australia). The co-financing arrangement
between IDA and Switzerland is judged to have been effective. Each supervision mission was conducted
jointly and there was general agreement at all times on the status and future direction of project activities.



                                                      - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. Sustainability of the project's outcomes is judged to be `likely' for the following reasons:
  · RGOB is committed to achieving EFA and MDG goals as reflected by its ambitious 9th Five-Year
     Plan (2002-2007) objectives and strategies, financed by both external and domestic resources. Most
     of the components funded under the project have been further improved, expanded and are currently
     being implemented incorporating lessons learned from SEP.
  · Improvement in the quality of education is a primary concern of RGOB. During the 9th Five-Year
     Plan period, curriculum development across different grade levels is being planned in the core subjects
     of English, mathematics and science. Standardized tests are also being developed at critical education
     cycles of grades 6 and 8 to gauge the standard of education within the broader framework of national
     education assessments.
  · While a teacher shortage continues to be the system's most significant constraint for improving both
     access to and the quality of education, this challenge is being addressed through the expansion of
     facilities at Bhutan's two teacher training institutes, the recruitment of expatriate teachers (mainly
     from India for teaching at the secondary level) and through the use of apprentice teachers. Improving
     the professional capacities of teachers is being achieved through reform of the pre-service training
     program, curriculum revision and comprehensive human resource development planning under the
     Ninth and Tenth Five-Year Plans.
  · An Education Sector Strategy for achieving Bhutan's Vision 20/20 provides a framework of
     development principles aimed at improving the quality of life of Bhutan's citizens; this is the result of
     an extensive nationwide consultative process as the basis for the preparation of Bhutan's five-year
     development plans.
  · The follow-on IDA-financed Education Development Project has picked up most of the quality
     improvement-related components and sub-components from SEP. This allows for the long-term
     continuity and support required to yield meaningful and sustained improvement. This is of particular
     importance given the generational nature of educational reform of this nature.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This category of analysis has limited applicability to the Bhutan context given that all project-financed
activities are carried out as a regular part of the education system's functioning. The completion of SEP
financing does in no way signify an end to activities initiated under the project. Both the previous
IDA-financed Primary Education Project (PEP) and SEP have demonstrated that the integration of project
activities into the regular functioning of the Ministry of Education allows for more effective capacity
building across functions, as well as a stronger sense of ownership of reform measures. SEP's focus on
human resource development through the financing of a large number of long-term fellowships and various
other types of training has had a positive impact on capacity building at all levels in the education system.
Notably, for the most part, personnel who have received training which was financed under SEP have been
placed in positions relevant to their training and prior experience.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. Project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The project was prepared jointly betwen the Bank
and SDC. The Bank/SDC preparation team engaged in a fruitful dialogue with MOE and collaboratively
defined the project's objectives and the actions to achieve them during the project period. The project



                                                      - 13 -

design was in accordance with the country's objectives and capacities and effectively accounted for lessons
learned from the previous IDA-financed education project. It built upon strategies and the experience of the
previous project which supported physical expansion of the education infrastructure, improvements to
teaching-learning processes, and human resource capacity building. One weak area in preparation was in
the identification of performance indicators. During the course of implementatiton, it was found that some
performance indicators were difficult to update as they did not accurately reflect how the education system
functions.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank performance during project implementation is judged satisfactory overall. The Bank
supervision teams worked closely with the Borrower during review missions. There were only two task
managers during the life of the project, both of whom possessed in-depth knowledge of Bhutan. Missions
were scheduled on a regular and timely basis, and additional technical assistance was included in mission
teams for supporting specific components as required. Bank missions could have benefited from the
participation of fiduciary staff, particularly as some difficulties were encountered in the area of financial
management reporting. This problem might have been mitigated and/or more efficiently resolved with
increased input in this area during course of carrying out regular supervision activities. All missions were
conducted jointly with SDC. SDC was asked to participate in the ICR mission, and the Bank offered to
support the participation of an SDC consultant for the mission. While no SDC personnel were available to
participate throughout the ICR mission, consultations were carried out at the start of the ICR mission with
an SDC-financed long-term consultant based at NIE Paro.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons:
  ·   Excellent communication with RGOB counterparts
  ·   Timely and relevant response to the RGOB's needs
  ·   Well-structured and thorough supervision missions, including regular field visits
  ·   Effective continuation of the positive elements of SEP into the follow-on IDA-assisted education
      project

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. RGOB and the then Ministry of Health and Education (MOHE) collaborated with the Bank
and the SDC to define the project's overall scope and specific components in-line with the on-going 8th
Five-Year Plan. An Inter-Ministerial Task Force established for the purposes of the project preparation
was effective in developing a detailed education financing model, the carrying out of project design
workshops, the analysis of the prevailing situation and trends, in laying out alternative approaches to
perceived problems and constraints, and in documenting the implications of specific policy options and
eventual choices.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's implementation performance is rated `satisfactory' because of the strong
commitment shown throughout implementation. Its performance in the area of financial management,
however, continued to be an issue to the point where the Bank instituted a Statement of Expenditure
Review in 2003. Although the Borrower's team managing the project per the regular functioning of the
MOE included a full-time project accountant, this officer did not demonstrate the necessary professional
dedication and capacities to effectively manage the project's complex financial management tasks. While
this exercise deepened MOE's understanding of the problems concerning financial management,
substantive improvement was not seen until the accounts officer was replaced toward the end of the project.



                                                     - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The MOE showed strong commitment throughout project implementation period. There were
three project coordinators from the Policy and Planning Division of the MOE during the project's
implementation period. An experienced planning officer managed the project during its preparation and
initial four years of implementation, contributing significantly to the project's thorough preparation and
good implementation performance. In the later stages of implementation, while more junior officers were
assigned to coordinate SEP, it seems that the project may have benefited from the continued presence of a
more senior planning officer.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall performance of the Borrower is rated `satisfactory' for the following reasons:
  · RGOB's over-arching commitment to improving the access to and quality of education, and in seeing
      SEP as an integral part of its plans to achieve education-related development goals;
  · For steps to improve the quality of education through the introduction of support measures such as the
      supplementary reading program and resource centers, which stand as examples of global good
      practice and represent a marked difference from practices elsewhere in the region in terms of the
      concerted focus on improving the teaching-learning process;
  · Efforts to decentralize education management and upgrade management skills at all levels which,
      again, represent a marked improvement over practices elsewhere in South Asia;
  · Continuous stakeholder consultations during project preparation and implementation;
  · Achievement of project targets and objectives in almost all components and sub-components despite
      some delays and the need for three project closing date extensions.

8. Lessons Learned

The following four sets of lessons learned have have been identified from the experience of SEP:

Legacy of NAPE and the generational nature of education system improvement

The sustainability of a number education quality improvement measures introduced into Bhutan's
education system, first under the `New Approach to Primary Education' (NAPE) in the late-1980s, then
supported under SEP reflect the generational nature of education reform. Bhutan's adherence to NAPE's
sweeping reform measures over the long-term has been largely successful and is showing increasing good
results. Key to future success will be abatement of the problem of teacher shortage. RGOB has largely
succeeded in establishing an environment for education system development and functioning which both
motivates and guides qualitative improvement.

Infrastructure

1. Importance of the physical quality of schools.The eleven schools built under SEP are attractive
structures which will serve as relatively high quality schools for years to come as Bhutan's rapid
development continues. While schools built under SEP are costly by regional standards, they again
distinguish Bhutan in terms of the premium it places on all aspects of education system functioning.

2. Readying schools to be fully functional. SEP-financed schools lack a sufficient number of books to
stock new libraries. This negatively impacts the quality of the learning environment. Additional resource
allocations were required for the purchase of library books -- particularly as the project supported a
Supplementary Reading Program as a key element for achieving education quality improvement objectives.
Both the Borrower and the Bank may have sought other options, such as financing one less new school, in




                                                      - 15 -

order to adequately equip the others and render them fully functional as education institutes.

3. Advance preparation for implementation of school building programs. The outcome of
implementation of the civil works activities under SEP demonstrate the importance of carrying out advance
preparatory tasks, including site surveys, the development of designs and drawings, the simplification of
bidding documents, and capacity building at the local level. These are crucial up-front measures needed to
avert construction-related delays at more advanced stages of project implementation.

Professionalization in the education sector

1. Teachers.A key impediment to the effective use of new teaching approaches for improved classroom
management and to stimulate children's learning can be largely attributed to a lack of familiarity with them.
Under SEP, the multi-grade teaching attachment program in Australia has served a particularly valuable
purpose, both as a means to transfer knowledge and skill on good teaching practice, and as an incentive for
teachers who have the opportunity to go abroad for training.

2. Principals and school heads. Lessons learned from the vast literature on the importance of good school
leadership for instituting pedagogic reforms and effective management of schools are in evidence in Bhutan.
School principals and heads are recognized for their key roles as front-line actors for instituting change.
The education quality improvement inputs and reforms brought through SEP depended largely on the
presence in schools of dynamic principals (secondary level) and head teachers (primary level). Effective
school leaders are needed to support new initiatives (resource centers, supplementary reading, school-based
monitoring, etc.). They must understand these initiatives conceptually and be capable of supporting
teachers to implement them.

3. District Education Officers (DEOs). Today, all DEOs in Bhutan possess Masters of Education degrees
and are selected based on good performance as school heads or specialists from other domains in the
education sector (e.g. curriculum development, monitoring, etc.). DEOs' role is now that of an
administrator and, more importantly, as an education leader to support improved practice among teachers
and the sound functioning of schools overall. This has been a key change in education system functioning in
Bhutan, supported under SEP.

Consistency in staffing

More effective hand-over between component managers during staffing re-alignments was required,
particularly for some of the quality-improvement activities under SEP (RC, supplementary reading,
technical-vocational skills). It is important that newly-appointed component managers be adequately
prepared through a systematic system of handover in order to effectively take on new responsibilities.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Second Education Project (SEP) was a follow on to the successful Primary Education Project (PEP)
which completed in 1998. The SEP incorporated lessons learned under the PEP and subsequently lessons
learned in the SEP were incorporated in the Education Development Project (EDP) and other projects. The
final few years of the SEP saw tremendous changes in the Royal Government of Bhutan's structure,
especially the segregation of the erstwhile Ministry of Health and Education (MoHE) and the creation of
three new Departments in the newly formed Ministry of Education (MoE). The Dzongkha Development
Authority was also incorporated into the MoE. The four components of the SEP were successful in
achieving the stated objectives of the project.




                                                     - 16 -

Component I: Increasing and upgrading facilities for Basic Education

Though only eleven of the initially planned 12 schools were built, the project surpassed its target in
establishing enhanced teaching-learning environment and creation of new student places. This component
faced the most hurdles in implementation, such as the labour intensive method of construction that was
chosen, shortage of laborers, natural calamities, etc, which caused the closing date to be extended three
times, and cost to escalate significantly. The lessons learned from SEP regarding limited availability of
labour and construction materials have been incorporated into the EDP. Under the EDP, the MoE has
adopted the use of Light Gauge Steel Frame (LGSF) technology to build around 30 schools. This will serve
the dual purpose of reducing significantly the time taken to construct schools while at the same time
creating an attractive employment avenue for school leavers.

Component II: Component II: Teacher Education

As one-third of the civil servants are teachers employed by the MoE, the teacher education component has
been critical in enhancing teacher capacities at all levels in terms of improvement of the quality of teaching
in the teacher training institutions and through in-service teacher training. Further, the project addressed the
issue of creating capacity and know-how for up-gradation of the qualification of teachers, who initially
underwent the Primary Teachers Certificate course (which has been phased out since 2002), to the level of
Bachelors of Education (B. Ed).

Component III: Improving Teaching and Learning Processes

This component addressed issues such as making the curriculum more responsive to the needs of Bhutan
and improving the teaching-learning environment and outcomes. It also assisted in making the curriculum
more focused and responsive to the needs of the Bhutanese students. This programme has contributed to the
decentralization of the Bhutan Lower Secondary School Certificate Examination (BLSSCE -class VIII) to
schools and in localizing the administration of the class X examination from the Council for the Indian
School Certificate Examinations to the Bhutan Board of Examination.

Component IV: Strengthening of Management and Administration

Valuable contributions have been made in strengthening the management and administration of the
Education Sector since project effectiveness. The professional competencies of various sections at the head
quarter, Dzongkhag offices, schools and institutes have been suitably upgraded through short and long-term
fellowships.

Conclusion

The project generally helped in creating access, enhancing the quality of education, and strengthening the
capacities at the Ministerial, Dzongkhag and school level. With the tremendous changes over the last few
years, viz. realignment of the MoE, staff turnover, etc, the project coordination was handled by a number
of junior but hard-working and dedicated officers. These officers rose to the challenge and benefited greatly
from this `on the job training'. Their capacities were greatly enhanced through this experience. The
construction works was delayed due to a few hurdles in implementation such as shortage of labor, natural
calamities, etc. The lessons learned during the preparation and implementation of this project was carried
forward and incorporated into Education Development Project, the next cycle of collaboration between the
IDA and the Ministry of Education, RGoB. In general, the flexibility and support of the supervision team
allowed the smooth implementation of the project and helped overcome all hurdles in the successful
completion of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
While trying to assess SEP, we must keep in mind the complexity of the project design (4 major
components, many sub-components and numerous stakeholders...) and the fact that SEP was planned in a



                                                      - 17 -

rather top-down manner. In our opinion this has contributed to a somewhat limited ownership of SEP by
the MoE, which was aggravated by a high staff rotation and unfortunate changes within the PIU. SDC as
co financier and Helvetas as implementer share most of the comments and assessment made in the
Implementation Completion Report. Our observations and comments focus on certain components
specifically supported by us and tend to identify the few critical issues within the overall satisfactory
implementation of this project. Our comments are based also on observations we have made since the
inception of the follow up project we support with the Ministry of Education (STEP).

Expansion of Teacher Training: In order to further expand both the quantity and the quality of the teaching
staff, more attention should be devoted to the selection of candidates (not only on academic results), to the
pass mark for graduation (with 40% mark, all trainees graduate) and the attribution of posts to new
graduates (equitable distribution of the best ones between rural and urban areas, primary and secondary).
The one year pre-training apprenticeship is a promising innovation, but it is often used to compensate for
teacher shortage. The young and inexperienced apprentice working as full time teaching staff would
deserve more support and coaching to make the best out of this practical period. A significant part of SEP
budget has been invested in capacity building (short and long term training). The management and
cost-efficiency of this HRD programme would deserve a thorough analysis ? How far could Teacher
Trainers, DEOs or Head Teachers use their new knowledge and skills to improve the quality of their work?

Teaching and Learning Process: SEP has certainly contributed to initiate some changes in teaching-learning
process, but the lecturing, rote-learning and memorizing are still very much used in the majority of schools
at all levels (even in the NIEs). Significant results were achieved with for instance curriculum revisions,
testing standards, teaching quality and especially continuous assessment, but the sustainability (understood
as institutionalisation and self development) of these changes would need to be further evaluated. The
continuous assessment for instance will still require consequent efforts to become a real formative tool in
all primary and secondary schools. The Resource Centres and Vocational Clubs represented two important
tools for ensuring the quality and broadening the scope of education, but their fate after the end of SEP
would require a special assessment.

Capacity Development: SEP has made a good contribution to capacity development at central level. At the
dzongkhag level, the educational background of DEOs has improved, but according to Head Teachers they
hardly provide educational support to the school heads and teaching staff. SEP has made a good
contribution to in-service training (through the Partnership In Teacher Training). But again, the assessment
of the sustainability of these innovations would deserve more attention. Have the new procedures been
implemented beyond individual initiatives in a few classrooms?

Cooperation with the Ministry and Department of Education: The cooperation with the DOE has been
satisfactory. Some changes of staff have had temporary adverse consequences on the project's
implementation, but have hopefully contributed to long term institutional reinforcement. Having been
involved in the project preparation SDC-Helvetas share the responsibility for the choice of unrealistic
performance indicators, although the question remains of how unrealistic these indicators are. Shouldn't it
become part of the mandate of the NIEs to better follow up on the outcome of their training (through for
instance tracer studies)?

The cooperation with the WB has been satisfactory, with the supervision mission allowing fruitful
discussions among alls stakeholders. We only regret that no solution could be found for our participation to
the ICR mission.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                      - 18 -

10. Additional Information

Financial Management
Financial management of the project can be assessed as having been only marginally satisfactory. It was
recognized at the start of the project that Bhutan's capacity was very weak in this expertise area. While the
Borrower provided a full-time accountant to look after SEP, this person was not adequately qualified to
manage financial management of the project, and was particularly weak in financial reporting and
preparing accurate withdrawal applications. The project provided a number of training opportunities for the
project accountant, although these inputs did not appear to improve the quality of the financial management
reporting. During the second half of the project's implementation period there was more concerted financial
management follow-up and guidance. This included a separate SOE review of project expenditures which
identified a number of problems, including ineligible expenditures which were fully recovered by IDA.
Audit reports were generally delayed. During FM supervision missions, the late submission of audit reports
was brought to the Borrower's attention, both through DADM and the MOE. Significant improvements
were not forthcoming until the project accountant was replaced toward the end of the project.

Procurement Activities
The procurement of goods, works and services under SEP can be rated as satisfactory. Major procurement
activities under the project included the procurement of civil works for the construction of eleven school
buildings and the supply of furniture for new schools. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD)
were used for procuring works and goods. This facilitated the learning of RGOB's staff and their exposure
to well-structured documents. It also inspired confidence among the bidders as the documents were
prepared accounting for the interests of both client and contractors (previously unheard of in Bhutan where
documents gave little or no protection to contractors). A major achievement of SEP was institution of a
'price adjustment' formula based on a system of indices developed specifically for the project, given that
there were no agencies in Bhutan that indexes construction materials. The system developed under the
project not only facilitated its smooth implementation, but has since been accepted by the Ministry of
Works and Human Settlements as the industry standard for such payments. SEP provided procurement
training for RGOB personnel which has aided significantly in strengthening RGOB's own procurement
system, and the experience of SEP has greatly influenced the follow-on EDP.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. EXPAND THE PROVISION OF BASIC
EDUCATION:                                    Increase GER by 16% from baseline (per      GER 88% (2005)
(a) Increase gross enrollment rates for basic PAD) of 72%
education by 16% by the end of the project;
and
(b) Increase in completion rates in basic     Increase completion by 18% from baseline    79.34% completion to grade 8 (2005)
education by 18% by project end.              (per MOE statistics) of 48.3% in 1996 to
                                              end-of-project target of 66.3%.

2. INCREASED CAPACITY AND
IMPROVED FACILITIES IN BASIC
EDUCATION                                     Improved Teaching-Learning environment      Improved learning environment for
(a) Improved Teaching-Learning environment for 7,720 students including the provision of  approximately 9,600 students through school
for 7,720 students including the provision of 3,701 additional student places.            upgrading/construction.
3,701 additional student places.                                                          5,600 additional places (2005)
                                                                                          2,365 additional boarding places (2005)

                                                                                          Improved learning environment for all
                                                                                          students kindergarten-gr. 8 through CA,
                                                                                          SRP, etc. (74,874 students pp-gr.8)

3. EXPANSION OF TEACHER TRAINING
CAPACITY                                                                                  Number of new teachers trained:
(a) 60 additional teachers for Grades VII and End-of-project target not defined as number 1998: 194
VIII graduated yearly in TTC Paro and NIE.    going on to teach at specific grade levels  1999: 249
(b) Increased annual intakes to teacher       cannot be tabulated.                        2000: 239
training (60 additional teachers) for Grades  End-of-project target not defined as number 2001: 437
XII and PGCE graduated yearly in NIE Paro     going on to teach at specific grade levels  2002: 337
and NIE Samtse.                               cannot be tabulated.PGCE program            2003: 403
                                              discontinued in 2003.                       2004: 260
                                                                                          (nb. trainees can be assigned to any grade
                                                                                          level within primary or secondary levels after
                                                                                          training)

4. IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF
TEACHING-LEARNING PROCESSES AND
OUTCOMES IN BASIC EDUCATION
(a) Improved students' test scores in Grade
VIII examinations.                            End-of-project target not defined.          Pass percentages at grade 8:
                                                                                          1999: 85%
                                                                                          2000: 85%
                                                                                          2001: 88%
                                                                                          2002: 94%
                                                                                          2003: 92%
                                                                                          2004: 98%

5, QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF
TEACHER TRAINING
(a) Improved relevance and standards of
teacher competencies at the pre-service                                                   EMSD carried out a study on classroom
training level.                               End-of-project target not defined.          effectiveness and submitted to NIE.
                                                                                          SDC-financed STEP is currently reviewing
                                                                                          the pre-service curriculum.

                                                                                          Introduction of a 3-year B.Ed. course at NIE
                                                                                          Paro replacing 2-year PTC program will lead
                                                                                          to more solid teacher preparation.

6. IMPROVED TEACHING-LEARNING
ENVIRONMENT, PROCESSES AND
RESULTS
(a) Improved instructional quality and




                                                                - 20 -

interaction in the classroom;              End-of-project targets not defined.         Cluster of schools covered under CA: 82
                                                                                       Schools coveredunder RC program: 112
                                                                                       Teachers trained in CA: 500
                                                                                       Monitors trained in CA: 112
                                                                                       Resource teachers trained in SRP: 21
                                                                                       Teacher educators traiined CA anad SRP: 70

                                                                                       CA instituted in all primary and lower
                                                                                       secondary schools in the country.
                                                                                       CA Guide Developed
(b) Institutionalize reliable continuous                                               No definitive evaluation of CA carried out to
assessment as part of teaching-learning                                                date. Scheduled under follow-on EDP
process at project end.                    End-of-project targets not defined.

                                                                                       No definitive evaluation of reading
                                                                                       improvement carried out to date. Scheduled
                                                                                       under follow-on EDP. SRP changed to
                                                                                       'Reading and Study Skills' and now
(c) Improved reading habits (number of                                                 implemented in all schools across the
books read at different age levels).                                                   country.
                                           End-of-project targets not defined.         SRP studes carried out in 2000/01 and 2003
                                                                                       concluded that schools with trained SRP
                                                                                       focal persons had annual reading plans,
                                                                                       whereas the use of activities to promote
                                                                                       reading was largely ad hoc in non-SRP
                                                                                       schools. Supplementary reading program
                                                                                       expanded from 20 to 120 schools in 2001.
6. STRENGTHEN THE QUALITY OF AN
INCREASINGLY DECENTRALIZED
EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
(a) Increase in functional decision-making
competencies at the Dzongkhag (district)   End-of-project targets not defined. RGOB's  All DEOs have M.Ed. degrees. Asst. DEOs
level.                                     goal was that at completion of project all  now assigned to all dzonghkags. The need
                                           DEOs wowuld have MEd degrees. All           for new school construction is identified at
                                           ADEOs, DEOs and focal persons trained in    the dzongkhag level. Admission in class IX is
                                           education administration and management.    carried out by dzongkhags. Chukha
                                                                                       Dzongkhag is piloting procurement of school
                                                                                       stationary in 2006 (initially was carried out by
                                                                                       the education central stores).
7. IMPROVED DELIVERY OF BASIC
EDUCATION SERVICES BY THE
EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION AND
MANAGEMENT
(a) Staff deployed, staff status and
professional capacity especially at the    End-of-project targets not defined.         Approved staffing levels at MOE: 280
Dzongkhag level.                                                                       Existing staff strength at MOE: 273
(b) Improved educational supplies system.                                              Total teachers in CPS: 786
(c) Improved school monitoring and support                                             Total teachers in PS: 767
(d) Improved technical infrastructure and                                              Total teachers in LSS: 1477
office organization.                                                                   Total teachers in MSS: 721
                                                                                       Total teachers in HSS: 551
                                                                                       Total DEO and ADEO: 43
                                                                                       School management guide developed.
                                                                                       Regular school monitoring by EMSSD, DEOs
                                                                                       and focal persons instituted.
                                                                                       System of position classification instituted in
                                                                                       2006. MOE wired for network connectivity
                                                                                       during course of SEP.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of newly trained teachers           495 (end-2002)                              807 (end-2005)
Number of new/upgraded schools             10 (2004)                                   11 (2005)
Number of resource centers                 15 (2003)                                   21 (2005)
Number of students participating in        1,256 (2005)                                1,256 (2005)




                                                             - 21 -

school-based vocational clubs

1End of project




                                 - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Estimated Project Costs at Appraisal
                                 Component                                    Cost (US$
                                                                               million)
Increasing and upgrading facilities for basic education                          12.15
Expanding and improving teacher education                                         1.49
Improved teaching and learning processes                                          2.48
Strengthening of management and administration of basic education                 2.54
Contingencies                                                                     2.52
                                                                   TOTAL         21.18

Estimated Project Expenditure at Closing
                    Component                             RGOB    SDC      IDA        Total
                                                                                     (US$M)
Increasing and upgrading facilities for basic education   0.85            11.63      12.48
Expanding and improving teacher education                 0.23      1.3    0.21       1.74
Improved teaching and learning processes                  0.65     1.5     0.69       2.84
Strengthening of management and administration of         0.45     2.5     0.52       3.47
basic education
Additional work                                           0.38             0.02       0.40
Undisbursed (cancelled)                                                    0.25       0.25
                                              TOTAL       2.56     5.3     13.32     21.18

Estimated Final Disbursement by Category of Expenditure (IDA Credit)
         Category                     Category Description             Disbursed (XDR)
             1             Civil Works                                         8,034,799.65
             2             Equipment, Furniture & Materials                    1,512,360.33
             3             Consultant Services                                    64,013.10
             4             Training                                              185,274.56
           SA-D            Special Account                                        50,352.50
                           Total Disbursed Amount                              9,846,800.14
                           Undisbursed balance to be cancelled as of             253,199.86
                           February 14, 2006
                                                            TOTAL             10,100,000.00


         Category                     Category Description             Disbursed (USD)
             1             Civil Works                                        11,497,879.65
             2             Equipment, Furniture & Materials                    2,164,338.87
             3             Consultant Services                                    91,603.39
             4             Training                                              265,129.75
           SA-D            Special Account                                        72,054.93
                           Total Disbursed Amount                             14,091,006.59
                           Undisbursed balance to be cancelled as of             362,331.53
                           February 14, 2006



                                                    - 23 -

1 XDR = 1.43101 US$




                       - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Sections 4.3 and 4.4 discuss economic costs and benefits.

Financially, the project is most likely sustainable as real GDP growth has been around six percent per
annum over the last two decades and the economic prospects of Bhutan are optimistic as a function of the
soon to be commissioned Tala hydropower project and RGOB's overall sound macroeconomic
management. In the past, RGOB has spent a relatively high proportion of revenues on education and health.
These sectors are likely to benefit significantly from the expected positive economic performance.

There are other, less easily measurable benefits to the project. Those include the empowering of women
and the poor, increased opening to the world and promotion of democratic values. Those benefits are
obviously as important as monetary gains and should certainly be taken into account when evaluating the
program. The project is also contributing to progress toward Universal Primary Education and the
Millenium Development Goals. According to regressions for determinants of school enrollment, it is
estimated that children in remote areas have a five percent lower likelihood of being enrolled or completing
primary education than their urban counterparts. As we said, the construction of new schools under SEP
has already created 3,201 additional classroom seats. It is estimated that RGOB will have to build about 50
new primary and lower secondary schools annually between 2004 and 2015 in order to accommodate
expected increases in the number of students for the education-related MDGs to be met. To that end, SEP
has made a significant contribution for increasing access to education.




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              4/29/96-5/15/96            6    Task Manager/Implementation
                                              Specialist; Economist; Education
                                              Specialist; 2 Helvetas Education
                                              Specialists; Helvetas Project
                                              Officer
              11/20/96-12/10/96          5    Task Manager/Implementation
                                              Specialist; Education Specialist;
                                              Education Advisor; Senior
                                              Economist; Helvetas Education
                                              Specialist
              4/29/97-5/9/97             4    Task Manager/Implementation
                                              Specialist; 2 Helvetas Education
                                              Specialists; Operations Assistant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/7/97/10/28/97           4    Task Manager/
                                              Implementation Specialist;
                                              Education Specialist;
                                              Helvetas Education
                                              Specialist; Operations
                                              Assistant


 Supervision
              5/7/98-5/13/98             5    Implementation Specialist;            S               S
                                              Education Specialist;
                                              Operations Assistant; 2
                                              Helvetas/SDC Education
                                              Specialists
              11/19/98-11/25/98          3    Economist, Education Specialist;      S               S
                                              Helvetas/SDC Education
                                              Specialist
              05/19/1999                 5    Mission Leader, Education             S               S
                                              Specialist, Financial
                                              Management Specialist, Sector
                                              Manager; Helvetas/SDC
                                              Education Specialist;
                                              Helvetas/SDC HRD and Training
                                              Specialist
                                                                                    S               S
              12/09/1999                 3    Team Leader; 2 Education              S               S
                                              Specialists
                                                                                    S               S
              06/19/2000                 3    Team Leader, Senior Education         S               S
                                              Specialist, Education Specialist



                                               - 26 -

               11/30/00-12/9/00          5   Mission Leader; Senior               S    S
                                             Education Specialist; Education
                                             Specialist; Helvetas/SDC
                                             Education Specialist;
                                             Helvetas/SDC HRD and Training
                                             Specialist
               6/8/01-6/17/01            4   Lead Operations Officer;             S    S
                                             Facilities Planner; Helvetas/SDC
                                             Education Specialist; Education
                                             Specialist (DANIDA)
               11/4/01-11/24/01          7   Mission Leader; 2 Education          S    S
                                             Specialists; 2 Helvetas/SDC
                                             Education Specialists; Education
                                             Specialist (DANIDA); Architect
                                             (DANIDA)
               5/29/02-6/13/02           6   Mission Leader; 2 Education
                                             Specialists; Physical Planning
                                             Specialist; 2 Helvetas/SDC
                                             Education Specialists
               12/4/02-12/16/02          5   Team Leader; Education
                                             Specialists; Physical Planning
                                             Specialist; 2 Helvetas/SDC
                                             Education Specialists


               12/1/03-12/16/03              Team Leader; Education
                                             Specialist; Architect;
                                             Helvetas/SDC Education
                                             Specialist




               1/21/05-2/3/05            1   Team Leader

 ICR
                                        3     Team Leader; Education
                                              Specialist; Program
                                              Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              62.3                            160.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   13.9                             74.3
  Supervision                            87.54                            391.2
  ICR                                     7.51                             38.6
  Total                                171.21                             664.4




                                              - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank

 1. Bhutan: Education Sector Twenty Year Vision: Strategic Plan and Investment Requirements. Aide
    Memoire, June 21, 2001
 2. Financial Management Information Systems Report (Project Accounting Software), January 2001
 3. Project Appraisal Document, February 3, 1998
 4. List of Project Activities by Component and Sub-Component, October 1997
 5. Implementation Completion Report, Primary Education Project (Credit 1899-BHU), June 26, 1998
 6. Inclusive Education: An EFA Strategy for All Children, Susan Peters, World Bank Human
    Development Network, November 2004
 7. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, January
    21-February 3, 2005
 8. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, December 16,
    2003
 9. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, December, 16,
    2002
10. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission, June 13, 2002
11. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, November
    23, 2001
12. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Sixth Review Mission, December 8,
    2000
13. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Fifth Review Mission, June 15, 2000
14. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Fourth Review Mission, December 8,
    1999
15. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Review of Project Financial
    Management Arrangements, May 10-18, 1999
16. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Third Review Mission, May 14, 1999
17. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Second Review Mission , November 25,
    1998
18. Second Education Project (Credit 3044-BHU). Aide-Memoire, Initial Review Mission, May 13, 1998

Borrower

 1. A Guide to Decentralised Education Monitoring and Support Services System, Department of
    Education, Ministry of Health & Education, 2003
 2. Bhutanese School Management Guidelines and Instructions, Ministry of Education, 2005
 3. Draft Report, A Study on the Status of Access to Primary Education of theGirl Child in Bhutan,
    Ministry of Education, UNICEF & WFP, October 2003
 4. Education Department, Classroom Effectiveness (Survey Questionnaires), undated
 5. Education Department, General Statistics, 2000
 6. Evaluation of the Second Education Project (Human Resource Development Fellowships) Quantitative
    Analysis. Second Evaluation Report (Mid-Term Review), Personnel Section, Administration and
    Finance Division, MOHE, XXXXX
 7. General Statistics, Policy and Planning Division, Ministry of Education, 2002
 8. General Statistics, Policy and Planning Division, Ministry of Education, 2003
 9. General Statistics, Policy and Planning Division, Ministry of Education, 2004
10. General Statistics, Policy and Planning Division, Ministry of Education, 2005



                                                   - 30 -

11. Human Resource Development First Evaluation Report on Impacts of Fellowships Abroad
    (Approaching Evaluation by Interviews), Department of Education, March 2001
12. Human Resource Development Master Plan (2002-2012), Education Department, 2002
13. Information Technology in Education, CAPSD, Education Department, RGOB, April 2000
14. Mid-Term Review Report on the Implementation of the component (Central Level - Monitoring and
    Supervision Functions) of the Second Education Project by the Education Monitoring and Support
    Division, Department of Education, undated
15. Mid-Term Review of the Second Education Project (IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB), Department of
    Education, MOHE, 4-24 November 2001
16. Ninth Five Year Plan, Education Sector Implementation Plan, November 29, 2002
17. Project Implementation Plan Proposal, 1997
18. Report on the Implementation Status of Human Resource Development Across the Second Education
    Project, Education Department, June 2000
19. Report for the Bhutan Board of Examinations, Education Division, RGOB on the Implementation of
    the Sub-Componenent on Examinations and Standardized Testing
20. Royal Government of Bhutan, Ministry of Education, Second Education Project, Progress Report
    January-November 2003, November 27, 2003

Other

 1. Analysis Report with Comments and Recommendations on the Decentralised Education Monitoring
    and Support Services System, by invitation of the EMSSD, Department of Education, Ministry of
    Education; submitted by Kaplan, Gee, Gee (consultancy team, UNE, Armidale, Australia), 15
    November 2003
 2. Education Sector Programme Support Document, Support to Ninth Education Five Year Plan, Volume
    1, Main Document, Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, November 2003
 3. Education Sector Programme Support Document, Support to Ninth Education Five Year Plan, Volume
    2, Annexes, Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, November 2003
 4. IDA/SDC/Helvetas Bhutan Education Sector 20-Year Vision: Strategic Plan and Investment
    Requirements, Aide Memoire, June 21, 2001.
 5. IDA/SDC Second Education Project, A Workshop on Continuous Assessment (Classes IV to VI); 2-6
    November 1998
 6. IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB Progress Report, prepared by PPD, Education Division, MOHE, December
    2000
 7. IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB Progress Report, prepared by PPD, Education Division, MOHE, June
    2000
 8. IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB Progress Report, prepared by PIU, Education Division, MOHE, November
    1999
 9. IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB Progress Report, April/May 1999
10. IDA/SDC/Helvetas/RGOB Progress Report, prepared by PIU, Education Division, MOHE, October
    1998
11. INSET within Bhutan, 1996-1998 and the INSET Framework within Bhutan, 2000-2004/6 by D.J.
    Laird, T.W. Maxwell, Wangpo Tenzin and Sangay Jamtsho, Thimphu, October 1999
12. Partnership in Teacher Training in the framework of the Second Education Project (1998 - 2003).
    Workshop 2000: Area 3: Continuous Assessment, Final Report, April 14-May 14, 2000
13. Partnership in Teacher Training (PITT 1989 - 2003)
14. Project Implementation Plan Proposal, Education Division, Ministry of Health and Education
15. Report of Monitoring and Evaluation of Continuous Assessment in Primary Schools Piloting Phase II,
    October 2001. Prepared by Frei, Rohrbach, Wangchuk, Dorji, Raika, Dukpa and Rinchen


                                                  - 31 -

16. Report on National Education Assessment in Bhutan: A Benchmark Study of Student Achievement in
    Literacy and Numeracy at Class VI, November 2003. Summary of findings and recommendations,
    June 2004.
17. Review of the School Curriculum of Bhutan with Special Reference to English and Mathematics,
    McLean and Hiddleston, CAPSD, 3 march - 30 April 2003
18. RGOB/IDA/SDC Project Report, July 2002-December 2002. Policy and Planning Division,
    Department of Education, MOHE, Thimphu, Bhutan
19. RGOB/IDA/SDC Project Report, December 2001-June 2002. Department of Education, MOHE,
    Thimphu, Bhutan




                                                - 32 -

- 33 -

