Page  1
Legal Department 
CONFIDENTIAL DRAFT 
(Subject to Change) 
KNordlander  
March 22, 2004 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF-____________-IND 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project 
–
Phase II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated                                                          , 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER                      -IND 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 2004, between the REPUBLIC 
OF INDONESIA (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the third replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 2002-0005 of December 19, 2002, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (Resolution No. 2002-0005); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 
(b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project, and said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; 
(E) 
the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated November 11, 
1997, and January 21, 1998, describing a program designed to protect, rehabilitate and 
achieve sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems (COREMAP) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program;  
Page  3
-
2
-
(F) 
the Recipient has requested that the GEF suppo
rt the Recipient’s 
execution of COREMAP through a series of grants over a period of approximately ____
1
years to be utilized by the Recipient in the implementation of COREMAP; 
(G) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of the 
Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to _________ Special Drawing Rights (SDR______) (the 
Credit); and 
(H) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional financing towards the 
financing of the Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount of 
thirty three million two hundred thousand Dollars ($33,200,000) (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
1
Years have to be less than in the DCA since GEF will not be financing Phase III. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Se
ction 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated 
September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 (i) 
Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (15), (16), (19), (34), 
(35), and (45), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) 
Sections 3.01, 3.08, and 3.11; 
(iv) Article 
V; 
(v) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (m), (n), (o), and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.05; 
(vi) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(vii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(viii) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01 and Sections 10.03 and 
10.04; 
(ix) 
Article XI; and 
(x) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
Section 2.01 (1) is modified to read as follows: “Currency” 
includes the currency of a country, the Special Drawing Right of 
the International Monetary Fund, and any unit of account which 
represents a debt service obligation of the Bank to the extent of 
such obligation.  “Currency of a country” means the coin or 
currency which is legal tender for the payment of public and 
private debts in that country”; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (1) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
(viii) 
Section 10.04 is modified to read as follows: “Any dispute 
arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration 
in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on 
the date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration shall be 
Washington, D.C. In the event of a conflict between UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall govern.”. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:  
(a) “BMT” 
means 
Balai usaha Mandiri Terpadu, 
an Islamic faith-based 
credit and savings system in Indonesia; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
“BPKP” means 
Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, 
the 
Borrower’s Financial and Development Supervisory Agency; 
(c) 
“Coastal Community Empowerment Board” means a Board established 
in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“COREMAP” means the Borrower’s national coral reef rehabilitation 
and management program as set out in the letter from the Borrower referred to in the 
Preamble to this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Credit Agreement;  
(f) 
“Dinas KP” means the District office of  the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Marine Affairs and Fisheries; 
(g) 
“Directorate General of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation” 
means the Directorate General within the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry, and any 
successor thereto; 
(h) 
“District” means a subdivision of a Province; 
(i) 
“District Coral Reef Information and Training Center” means a Center 
established in accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“District Program Implementation Plan” means the Plan that sets out the 
design and implementation arrangements for the Project in such District; 
(k) 
“Facilitator” means a technical or social specialist assigned to work with 
Participating Villages to facilitate their participation in the Project; 
(l) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(m) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31;  
(n) “LIPI” 
means 
Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia
,
the Indonesian 
Institute of Sciences; 
(o) “LKM” 
means 
Lembaga Keuangan Micro
,
a
Christian faith-based credit 
and savings system  in Indonesia; 
(p) “LKMD” 
means 
Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa,
 a village 
community forum, or other village institution established under Keppres 49/2001; 
(q) 
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), as applied to such 
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(r) 
“National Coordination Unit” means the Unit established in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(s) 
“National Coral Reef Information and Training Center” means the 
Center established in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(t) 
“National Monitoring, Evaluation and Feedback Unit” means the Unit 
established in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“National Program Implementation Unit” means the Unit established in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(v) 
“Participating Districts” means the following districts of the Borrower: 
Sikka in the Province of Nusa Tenggara Timur;  Biak and Raja Ampat in the Province of 
Papua; Pangkajene Kepulauan and Selayer in the Province of Sulawesi Selatan; and 
Buton in the Province of Sulawesi Tenggara;  
(w) 
“Participating Province” means the following provinces of the Borrower: 
Nusa Tenggara Timur, Papua, Sulawesi Selatan and Sulawesi Tenggara; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(x) 
 “Participating Village” means a village selected in agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association for participation in the Project;  
(y) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
_____________
2
covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation 
(z) 
“Project Management Manual” means the Manual to assist in the 
implementation of the Project and which includes: the financial management manual, the 
procurement manual, the operational manual, the community-based and collaborative 
management manual, and the Sea Partnership Program manual, as such Project 
Management Manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association; 
(aa) 
“Program Management Unit” means the Unit established in accordance 
with paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the achievement of the Project objectives as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;  
(cc) 
“Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;  
(dd) 
“Sea Partnership Program” means the program established to assist in 
linking the technical departments of Indonesian universities with Dinas KP and the 
Program Management Units for the provision of assistance during Project 
implementation; 
(ee) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(ff) 
“Third Phase of COREMAP” means such phase as described in the 
Borrower’s letter referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.  
2
Procurement plan should be agreed by negotiations and reflected in a dated document. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars 
($7,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Parts B.1, 
B.2 (e), (f) and (g), B.4 (b), and B.5(a) and (c) of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts B.1, B.2 (e), (f) and (g), B.4 
(b), and B.5(a) and (c) of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through ________________,
3
with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, marine and social practices and 
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, all acceptable to the Bank, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of  the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
3
To be provided by the Borrower at negotiations. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B.1, 
B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Recipient responsible for the carrying out of Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and 
(c) of the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall:  
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant becomes effective to and including the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is 
made, have the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year or other period agreed to by the 
Bank, audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year or such other period 
agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year or 
such other  period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail 
satisfactory to  the Bank; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:   
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
Page  12
-
11
-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and  
(iii) 
ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, 
referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) 
and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes progress in implementation of Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 
(b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned implementation of Parts B.1, B.2 
(e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 
(b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than sixty (60) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Parts 
B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than sixty (60) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. 
The Recipient shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Association may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors 
referred to therein. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
have been fulfilled; and 
(b) 
that the Development Credit Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
Page  15
-
14
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C.   
64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
By 
 Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods: 
 
25% 
 
(a) Surveillance equipment 
 
 
 
under Part B.2 (g) and  
 
 
 
B.5 (c) of the Project 
 
(b) Other goods under Part 
 
B.1 (e) and (f), B.4 (b) 
 
and B.5 (a) and (c) of 
 
the Project 
 
(2)  Training and workshops 
 
25% 
 
under Part B.1 (a), (b) 
 
and (c) of the Project 
 
(3)  Studies under Part B.2 (e) 
 
100% 
 
of
the Project 
 
(4)  Incremental operating 
 
20% 
 
costs under Part B.5 
 
(a) and (c) of the 
 
Project 
Page  18
-
17
-
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(5) Community Support 
 
33% 
 
Services under Part 
 
B.1 (d) of the Project 
 
(6) 
Consultants’  
12% 
 
services under Part 
 
 
 
B.4 (b) of the Project 
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
________
TOTAL 7,500,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and workshops; 
(g) studies and surveys; and (e) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
4. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing the second 
phase of the COREMAP, in particular, enhancing the welfare of coastal communities 
through the establishment of viable coral reef management systems consisting of  a 
program aimed at empowering and supporting coastal communities to co-manage in a 
sustainable manner the use of coral reefs and associated ecosystem resources.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A:  Institutional Strengthening 
1. 
Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training
Strengthening of the institutional structures for the Recipient’s national 
coordination and the decentralized management of COREMAP, including: 
 
(a) 
strengthening the National Coordination Unit and the National 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Feedback Unit within such National Coordination Unit, 
including provision of equipment, technical assistance and training; 
 
(b) 
strengthening the National Coordination Unit’s training team, including 
provision of technical assistance; 
 
(c) 
carrying out of workshops for staff of Program Management Units for 
capacity building in COREMAP management; and 
 
(d) 
carrying out of a national level workshop to assist in the identification of 
additional Districts interested in participating in the third phase of COREMAP. 
Page  20
-
19
-
2. 
Coral Reef Research and Monitoring
(a) 
Strengthening the National Coral Reef Information and Training Center, 
including: 
 
(i) 
establishment of an office in charge of the international outreach 
program; 
 
(ii) 
production and distribution of coral reef ecosystem materials 
created by the Center; 
 
(iii) 
development of a coral reef  management information system;  
 
(iv) 
establishment of a satellite communication system for the Center 
with connections in District Coral Reef Information and Training 
Centers; 
 
(v) 
carrying out of baseline and initial rapid resource inventory 
surveys in the Participating Districts, including assisting District 
monitoring teams in carrying out annual rapid resource inventory 
surveys and line-intersect transect monitoring; 
 
(vi) 
carrying out of marine conservation areas monitoring; 
 
(vii) 
carrying out of research on the benefits of marine conservation 
areas for reef fisheries production and management; 
 
(viii) 
carrying out of training for the staff of District Coral Reef 
Information and Training Centers; 
 
(ix) 
provision of training to the National Coral Reef Information and 
Training Center staff through attendance at relevant international 
conferences, workshops and overseas training centers; and  
(x) 
carrying out of scientific research on applied topics related to co-
management of coral reefs; and 
Page  21
-
20
-
(xi) 
provision of technical assistance. 
(b) 
Establishment of a Coral Reef Information and Training Center in each 
of the Participating Districts, including provision of related equipment, technical 
assistance, training and study tours, for the carrying out of reef health monitoring in 
Participating Districts and dissemination of information to stakeholders. 
(c) 
Carrying out of community-based reef fisheries monitoring, including 
provision of relevant training to Dinas KP staff, extension and training officers, 
community facilitators, village motivators and volunteer village fishers. 
(d) 
Collection, analyses and dissemination of socio-economic data in 
Participating Districts, including survey of the impact of COREMAP on community 
welfare and public awareness of coral reef ecosystem conservation needs. 
(e) 
Carrying out of applied research through the District Coral Reef 
Information and Training Centers relevant to sustainable co-management of coral reef 
ecosystems, including piloting of alternative income generation projects. 
(f) 
Development of new technology and techniques for sustainable fishing 
livelihood opportunities as alternatives to coral reef exploitation, through the carrying out 
of relevant research and studies. 
3. 
Legal, Policy and Strategy Assistance
(a) 
Establishment of the legal structures for the co-management of coral reef 
ecosystems in the Participating Districts, including establishment of Coastal Community 
Empowerment Boards, committees for coastal management, and Participating Districts 
reef health monitoring teams, including provision of technical assistance.  
(b) 
Carrying out of workshops by the National Coordination Unit on national 
policies for coral reef fisheries management, including provision of technical assistance. 
(c) 
(i) 
Preparation of District-level legislation to enable communities to 
collaborate with local governments in the management of reef 
resources, including preparation of legislation on live reef 
species trade and use of cyanide in reef fisheries, and provision 
Page  22
-
21
-
of relevant technical assistance to Coastal Community 
Empowerment Boards and Program Management Units. 
(ii) 
Preparation of village-level legislation to formalize community 
management plans and related measures, including village 
marine conservation areas, and provision of relevant technical 
assistance to coastal communities in Participating Districts. 
(d) 
Carrying out of workshops on, and dissemination of, the enhanced 
national coral reef management strategy, and preparation of policies and strategies for 
regional coral reef management and sustainable reef fisheries, including provision of 
relevant technical assistance to the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries. 
(e)        (i) 
Preparation of a strategy for live reef fish as part of the reef fish 
management strategy. 
(ii) 
Carrying out of a study to change the incentive structure of live 
reef food fish. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of a study on the dangers of consuming fish caught 
through cyanide poisoning.  
PART B:  Community-Based and Collaborative Management 
1. Community 
Empowerment
(a) 
Carrying out of training and workshops by District Program 
Management Units for District Project staff in sustainable coral reef fisheries 
management. 
(b) 
Carrying out of: (i) workshops to develop locally appropriate approaches 
for sustainable coral reef management; (ii) awareness raising activities on sustainable 
reef fisheries management, and (iii) rapid rural appraisals by the District Program 
Management Units and field teams. 
(c) 
Provision of study tours and cross visits for stakeholders in Participating 
Villages to sites implementing appropriate coral reef management, and preparation of 
documentation of such study tours for dissemination in the Participating Villages. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(d) 
Provision of facilitation, training and technical assistance in coral reef 
ecosystem community-based management to Participating Villages. 
(e) 
Rehabilitation of appropriate community buildings in Participating 
Villages for the housing of the village information center for coral reef management 
activities, including provision of Village Grants to Village Grantees.  
(f) 
Strengthening the communication between adjacent Participating 
Villages, community facilitation teams and Program Management Units through the 
establishment of radio communication networks and facilities. 
2. 
Community-Based Coral Reef Management
(a) 
Provision of training to Participating Villages in underwater mapping 
and land-based participatory resource assessments. 
(b) 
Preparation of scientifically-supported village coral reef management 
plans and inter-village plans for the establishment of local marine conservation areas that 
maximize fisheries benefits and fishery management requirements, and contribute to 
critical biodiversity conservation, including provision of technical assistance to 
Participating Villages. 
(c) 
Establishment of village marine conservation areas that support District 
sustainable reef management, including installation of marker buoys, mooring buoys and 
dissemination of the coordinates of marine conservation areas. 
(d) 
Strengthening the capacity of Dinas KP in Participating Districts to 
support sustainable co-management of coral reef ecosystems and to register and license 
small-scale fishing vessels, including provision of technical assistance and training. 
(e) 
Carrying out of a study on decommissioning of destructive fishing gear 
and carrying out of a pilot program of decommissioning destructive fishing gears in 
selected Participating Villages. 
(f) 
Establishment and training of teams of volunteers in Participating 
Villages for the monitoring of reefs and associated ecosystems. 
Page  24
-
23
-
(g) 
Strengthening village surveillance of reefs through the establishment of a 
village and District communication network and rapid response service in Participating 
Villages with marine conservation areas, including provision of related equipment. 
(h) 
Strengthening, and expansion of, existing community-based coral reef 
management areas in Participating Villages, including provision of technical assistance 
and equipment.     
3. Community 
Development
(a) 
Strengthening of the Participating Villages’ financial management 
systems, including provision of training to community financial managers and 
bookkeepers and other selected community members, such training to include training in 
micro-finance management systems. 
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of District level credit and savings 
institutions, including BMTs and LKMs, to establish village-level credit and savings 
facilities in Participating Villages, through the provision of technical assistance. 
(c) 
Financing of income-generating Sub-projects through the provision of 
Sub-loans to selected micro-enterprises at the village level.  
(d) 
Establishment of a partial credit guarantee program for purposes of 
guaranteeing loans by village-based credit and savings institutions to village-based micro-
enterprises in Participating Villages, for the financing of income generating activities. 
(e) 
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Villages in the 
preparation and implementation of income generating activities that are an alternative to 
fishing and extractive use of coral reef ecosystems. 
(f) 
Carrying out of Sub-projects in Participating Villages through the 
provision of Village Grants to Village Grantees. 
(g) 
Carrying out of a pilot program of visits by employment agents from 
Participating Districts and Provincial capitals to Participating Villages in remote areas to 
evaluate work opportunities for fishers and reef gleaners outside the Participating Village. 
Page  25
-
24
-
(h) 
Carrying out of pilot alternative income generating Sub-projects that 
reduce the pressure on coral reefs and associated ecosystems in Participating Districts 
through the provision of Sub-loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises. 
4. 
District Marine Conservation Area Management
(a) 
Establishment of a Coastal Community Empowerment Board in each 
Participating District, including provision of technical assistance. 
(b) 
Establishment of a Program Management Unit in each Participating 
District, including provision of equipment and technical assistance. 
(c) 
Development of a District marine resources strategic plan in each 
Participating District as a guide to Participating Villages in the selection of marine 
conservation areas. 
(d) 
(i) 
Carrying out of an in-depth assessment of the live reef food fish 
trade in the Districts of Buton and Pangkajene Kepulauan, as 
part of the development of a program to change the incentive 
structure of the live reef food fish trade. 
(ii) 
Creation of an enabling environment in the Districts of Buton 
and Pangkajene Kepulauan for fishers and collectors to produce 
certified live aquarium products for premium prices, including: 
printing and distribution of certification education materials; 
training of fishers and collectors in sustainable harvesting, 
handling and transport methods; and carrying out a cyanide 
detection methodology survey. 
5. 
Marine Park Support
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate General of Forest 
Protection and Nature Conservation to support the implementation of a national policy 
for co-management of marine protected areas, including provision of related equipment 
and technical assistance. 
 
(b) 
 Provision to managers of national marine parks and marine protected 
areas in the Participating Districts of study tours to national marine parks that have 
Page  26
-
25
-
successfully implemented co-management systems for the coral reef ecosystems within 
the park. 
 
(c) 
Strengthening the capacity of park management authorities of national 
marine parks and of marine protected areas in the Participating Districts, to manage, in a 
sustainable manner, coral reef ecosystems within such park or area in collaboration with 
local communities and stakeholders, including: establishment of advisory boards, 
provision of training, provision of technology and collaborative enforcement, and review 
and dissemination to local communities of park management plans. 
PART C:  Public Awareness, Education and Sea Partnership 
1. 
Public Awareness Campaigns
(a) 
Reproduction and distribution of existing public awareness materials on 
coral reef health and sustainable fisheries production to Participating Provinces, 
Participating Districts and  Participating Villages. 
(b) 
Preparation and dissemination of awareness materials on co-management 
of coral reef ecosystems and its reef fisheries benefits to targeted groups, including 
fishers, resource users and decision makers in Participating Districts and Participating 
Villages. 
(c) 
Design and implementation of awareness and advocacy programs and 
national campaigns on coral reef conservation and sustainable use in Participating 
Provinces, Participating Districts and Participating Villages. 
(d) 
Production of news and general interest stories relating to sustainable 
management of coral reefs and related ecosystems for the local media. 
2. Education 
Programs
(a) 
Development and production of coral reef education materials for 
inclusion in the formal primary and secondary education curriculum in the Participating 
Districts. 
(b) 
Carrying out of training and workshops for District teachers in the use of 
the coral reef education materials and its methodology. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(c) 
Carrying out of national reef education events for children and youth. 
3. 
Sea Partnership Program
(a) 
Establishment of a Sea Partnership Office in the Ministry of Marine 
Affairs and Fisheries and provision of technical assistance for the dissemination of 
information to Participating Districts on the programs and services available under the 
Sea Partnership Program. 
(b) 
Preparation of detailed design and an operational manual for the 
execution of the Sea Partnership Program, through the provision of technical assistance to 
the National Coordination Unit and the Ministry for Marine Affairs and Fisheries. 
(c) 
Strengthening government agencies in Participating Districts in coral reef 
ecosystems management, including provision of technical assistance by university faculty 
through the Sea Partnership Program. 
(d) 
Provision of scholarships on specialization in coral reef and related 
ecosystems management and related topics to secondary school students, university 
students and graduate students and provision of placement opportunities in Participating 
Villages, Participating Districts and central government agencies. 
(e) 
Development at about five universities or research centers in eastern 
Indonesia of the capability of carrying out responsive marine related research programs. 
(f) 
Expansion of the Borrower’s university-based practical field training 
program to include practical field training in support of sustainable coral reef 
management in Participating Villages, including provision of fellowships to university 
students assigned to Participating Villages. 
4. 
Program Support Communication
(a) 
Development of communication methodologies, protocols, and systems, 
including information kits and press releases, relating to the second phase of COREMAP. 
(b) 
Provision of media training related to the second phase of COREMAP to 
District and national level managers responsible for COREMAP. 
Page  28
-
27
-
(c) 
Preparation of communication protocols and materials, including 
information kits and press releases relating to the second phase of COREMAP, for the 
National Coordination Unit, the Program Implementation Unit and the Program 
Management Units to generate a common understanding of the second phase of 
COREMAP. 
(d) 
Production and dissemination of information sheets and newsletters 
relating to COREMAP. 
(e) 
Preparation of a public relations program to targeted audiences to 
generate a common understanding of the second phase of COREMAP. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 3
4
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated [May] 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), the 
provisions of this Schedule and the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule. If the 
Borrower employs any procurement or inspection agent, it shall ensure that the 
requirements of paragraphs 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated [May] 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the following 
additional procedures: 
1. Domestic 
Preference
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
4
This Schedule needs to be revised to reflect only the activities carried out through the GEF Grant. 
Page  30
-
29
-
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Pa
rticular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality and cost in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and the following provision: for 
purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  31
-
30
-
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.9 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants  
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract for goods and services (other 
than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) 
the first contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and to be awarded in accordance with Section II. 
B. 1 of this Schedule by each of the Ministry for Marine Affairs and Fisheries, the 
National Coordination Unit, the Indonesian Institute of Sciences, the National Marine 
Parks, and the Participating Districts.  
Page  32
-
31
-
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individual Consultants
(a) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval;  (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis:  (i) the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval; (ii) the 
contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) 
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to 
the contract. 
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  33
-
32
-
Annex A to SCHEDULE 3 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and of the 
Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such terms are defined in said 
Schedule and referred to hereafter as “the Guidelines”), the following  provisions shall 
apply in respect of goods, works and consultants’ services to be procured under the 
Project: 
1.
 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services under the Project, the requestor/user of such goods, works or 
consultants’ services (as the case may be) to be acquired, shall be represented on the 
relevant procurement/selection committee. The criteria for the selection of procurement 
committee/selection members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the 
Guidelines and the Project Management Manual (provided, however, that in the event of 
any inconsistency between the Project Management Manual and the Guidelines, the 
provisions of the Guidelines shall apply). 
2. 
The Procurement Plan, including all updates thereof; shall be made publicly 
available promptly after their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposal documents issued in accordance 
with Schedule 3 of this Agreement, shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request, subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of 
printing and delivery.  In the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will 
only be made available after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such 
document will continue to be made publicly available until a year after completion of the 
contract entered into for the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
Page  34
-
33
-
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods, works and services (other 
than consultants’ services) of $100,000 equivalent or more and all contracts for 
consultants of $50,000 equivalent or more shall be made publicly available and published 
widely, and be made available to any member of the public upon request, promptly after 
such award. 
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof.  
Page  35
-
34
-
Annex B to SCHEDULE 3 
1. General
Subject to the provisions of Part B.1 of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those 
set forth in Presidential Decree No. 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provi
sions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the “Guidelines”). 
 
2. Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process, and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
3. Pre-qualification
Pre-qualification shall not used for simple goods and works. Normally, post-
qualification shall be used. Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the Association. When pre-qualification shall be 
required: 
 
(a) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification, and  
 
(b) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. Joint 
Ventures
A
bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a 
condition of award of the contract. 
 
Page  36
-
35
-
5. Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
6. Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
24 hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for 
procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
 
7. Bid 
Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
Page  37
-
36
-
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Association’s prior concurrence.
 
Page  38
-
37
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project the National 
Coordination Unit, in the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries, said Unit to be 
provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
objectives, such staff to include: a Director; an Executive Secretary; a Program Manager; 
from the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries an Assistant Director for Institutional 
Strengthening, an Assistant Director for the Sea Partnership Program, an Assistant 
Director for Community-based and Collaborative Management, and an Assistant Director 
for Public Awareness; from LIPI an Assistant Director for Research and Monitoring, and 
an Assistant Director for Education; and from the Directorate General of Forest 
Protection and Nature Conservation an Assistant Director for Marine Park Support. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project the National 
Program Implementation Unit in LIPI, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate 
funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate 
numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its objectives, such staff to include a 
Director; from the National Coral Reef Information and Training Center an Assistant 
Director for Research and Monitoring, and an Assistant Director for Education; and a 
Program Manager. 
3. 
The Recipient shall establish, and, thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, the National Coral Reef Information and Training Center, said Center to be 
provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
objectives.  
4. 
The Recipient shall establish, and, thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, the National Monitoring, Evaluation and Feedback Unit, said Unit to be provided 
at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
objectives. 
5. 
Each Participating District shall maintain until completion of the Project a 
Program Management Unit, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and 
other resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers 
Page  39
-
38
-
as shall be necessary to accomplish its objectives, such staff to include a Director, an 
Executive Secretary, a Program Manager, a representative from the Dinas KP from such 
Participating District, and a representative from the National Marine Park or marine 
protected area in such Participating District. 
6. 
Each Participating District shall establish, by June 30, 2005, in accordance with 
the provisions of the District Program Implementation Plan, a Coastal Community 
Empowerment Board, with representatives from the Recipient and from civil society and 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
7. 
Each Participating District shall establish, by June 30, 2005, and, thereafter, 
maintain until completion of the Project a District Coral Reef Information and Training 
Center, said Center to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources 
and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary to accomplish its objectives.  
8. 
The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the 
description of: (i) implementation arrangements, (ii) the procurement procedures set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (iii) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in 
Article 4 of this Agreement, (iv) the Project Performance Indicators set forth in Schedule 
5
to this Agreement, (v) the environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project design 
including environmental impact mitigation, (vi) maintenance provisions for works to be 
carried out under a Sub-project, and (vii) the criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and 
terms and conditions of Sub-loans and Grants. 
9. 
In carrying out the Project the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
by June 1, 2008, establish an independent evaluation panel with terms of 
reference and members acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
cause such independent panel to carry out an evaluation of the Project by 
not later than March 1, 2009; and 
(c) 
furnish the results of the evaluation to the Bank for comments. 
10. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that any development 
project proposed to be carried out in, or in the vicinity of, national marine parks, regional 
Page  40
-
39
-
parks or District marine conservation areas in Participating Districts, shall only be carried 
out if a satisfactory environmental study of said proposed project shall have been 
completed and shall have established that any potential adverse effect on the Project site 
will be avoided or mitigated in compliance with the Recipient’s applicable legislation. 
11. 
In carrying out Part B.1 (e) of the Project, the Recipient shall: (a) make Grants 
available to Participating Villages up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Rp. 
10,000,000; and (b) shall ensure that the works are carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Village Grant Guidelines.  
12. 
In carrying out the studies under the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
carry out the studies in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank; 
(b) 
not later than January 1 in each year, commencing January 1, 2005, 
furnish to the Bank for comments the recommendations of the studies carried out in the 
preceding year; 
(c) 
not later than July 31 in each year, commencing July 31, 2005, prepare 
action plans for the implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried out in 
the preceding year, taking into account the comments of the Bank on such 
recommendations; and  
(d) 
promptly thereafter, carry out each of such action plans. 
13. 
The Recipient shall carry out Part B.1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project in accordance 
with a training plan acceptable to the Bank.  
14. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
Page  41
-
40
-
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
Page  42
-
41
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts B.1, B.2 
(e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) 
and (c) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
_________ to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to _______ until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of _______. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the  Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  43
-
42
-
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the  Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the  Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Page  44
-
43
-
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for 
Parts B.1, B.2 (e), B.4 (b) and B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  45
-
44
-
Page  46
-
45
-
SCHEDULE 6
5
Performance Indicators
 
5
To be agreed at negotiations. 
Page  47
-
46
-
