                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 28036


                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (CPL-39840 SCL-3984A SCPD-3984S)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.0 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR THE

               NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              March 31, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 29, 2004)

                                     Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                         Rp. 1,000 = US$ 0.1146
                                             US$ 1 = Rp. 8,725.8

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                   April 1 - March 31 (up to 2000)
                               January 1 - December 31 (from 2001)

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD           -     Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AIAT           -     Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
ARM II Project -     Second Agricultural Research Management Project
BANGDA         -     Department of Regional Development (Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPEDA        -     Regional Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPENAS       -     National Development Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional)
BP             -     Board of Internal Control (Badan Pengawas)
BRI            -     People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank Rakyat Indonesia)
CAS            -     Country Assistance Strategy
CDF            -     Community Development Facilitator
DAFEP          -     Decentralized Forestry and Agricultural Extension Project
GTZ            -     Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IADP           -     Integrated Area Development Project
ICR            -     Implementation Completion Report
M&E            -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI            -     Micro-finance Institutions
MOA            -     Ministry of Agriculture
MTR            -     Mid-Term Review
NAIAT          -     Naibonat Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
NGO            -     Non-governmental Organization
NTAADP         -     Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project
NTASP          -     Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project
NTB            -     West Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Barat)
NTT            -     East Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Timur)
PIP            -     Project Implementation Plan
PIU            -     Project Implementation Unit
PSR            -     Project Status Report
QAG            -     Quality Assurance Group
R&D            -     Research and Development
SAR            -     Staff Appraisal Report
SMFP           -     Sustaining Micro-finance Project
TA             -     Technical Assistance
UPKD           -     Community-managed Micro-finance Unit (Unit Pengelola Keuangan Desa)



                                   Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director       Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                                   Sector Director      Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Maria Triyani, EASRD

                                         INDONESIA
      NUSA TENGGARA AGRICULTURAL AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Government of Indonesia's Implementation Completion Report, Summary     32

Map: IBRD #27202

Project ID: P004008                                                  Project Name: Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Maria Triyani                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development              L/C/TF Number: CPL-39840; SCL-3984A;
                            Project                                                                  SCPD-3984S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (40%); Irrigation and drainage
                            (20%); Roads and highways (20%); Sub-national government
                            administration (14%); Animal production (6%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Decentralization (S); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S);
                            Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/27/1994                                     Effective: 06/27/1996                06/27/1996
     Appraisal: 05/22/1995                                         MTR: 09/09/1998                  01/28/1999
      Approval: 03/05/1996                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Indonesia/Department of Regional Development
                      Other Partners:      Local Government

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Gershon Feder
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Triyani                                  Chita Jarvis
ICR Primary Author:             William L. Cuddihy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1   The objectives of the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project (NTAADP) were to
raise smallholder incomes, to strengthen local-level institutions and to foster broad-based participation at
the grassroots level. At the start of the project, the rural sector continued to be characterized by low
productivity and investment resulting in entrenched poverty. The government sector strategy which the
project supported was to improve the quality of research and extension services and to provide credit to
smallholders, while improving the village-to-market roads and related infrastructure. The Bank supported
these efforts through a series of projects addressing these objectives and using the same general strategy.
The provinces of West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) and East Nusa Tenggara (NTT) were chosen because of
their high incidence of poverty that ranks them among the poorest provinces in Indonesia. The project's
objectives and expected outcomes were clearly stated and were consistent both with the government's
policies of regional development with equity and with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that
placed emphasis on poverty reduction and decentralization of development activities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1   The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's life. However, the project
was restructured in February 1999 at the Mid-term Review (MTR) and the scope of the project was
reduced in May 2000, when implementation progress was unsatisfactory and it became clear that the
project as originally designed was unlikely to result in the expected outcomes. At the MTR, project
objectives were kept unchanged but to realize those objectives, and after taking into account the learning
from other projects in Indonesia, greater emphasis was placed on institutional strengthening and
community-managed rural credit.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1   The project had three components.         The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) presents an unclear
description of the structure of each component and a confusing treatment of sub-components and activities.
The costs shown here include both price and physical contingencies.

Component A: Establishment of the Naibonat Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
(NAIAT)
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$5.374 million; actual expenditures US$2.286 million, of which US$1.754
million from the Bank.]

3.3.2   This component was designed to up-grade agricultural research and facilitate technology transfer
to farmers at the two research campuses of the national Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology
(AIAT) - at Naibonat AIAT (NTT) and at Mataram AIAT (NTB).                     The NAIAT was part of the
decentralized research system of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD). The
main activities were: (a) the development of a master plan for research and development (R&D) and human
resources development to improve the quality and relevance of research; (b) the construction of offices,
laboratories and other buildings to accommodate an expanded research program; (c) the provision of
vehicles and equipment; (d) technical assistance (TA) and training for research and associated staff; and (e)
the provision of part of the operating costs of location-specific agriculture and livestock research and
technology development, and the dissemination of the results. This component also included a study of the
impact of restrictions on inter-island trading of cattle and studies of agro-ecological zones for development
planning purposes.




                                                      - 2 -

Component B: Agriculture-Based Area Development
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$30.734 million; actual expenditures US$19.010 million, of which
US$16.164 million from the Bank.]

3.3.3     This component concentrated development efforts in fourteen participating kabupatens (districts).
It expanded activities that had been piloted under the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Project
(NTASP). The main activities were: (a) the establishment of on-farm demonstrations of applied research
results from Component A; (b) the distribution of farm inputs (on a grant basis) and of cattle (with
repayment in kind) to enable poor farmers to adopt the research results; (c) technical training of extension
workers and community leaders; (d) the improvement of farm-to-market access roads; and (e) the
establishment of a competitive grant fund to finance local community-identified initiatives (such as
revolving funds for farm credit, post-harvest processing, village water supply, and small-animal
distribution schemes).         This component also included financing for non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), which were local community organizations, to provide Community Development Facilitators
(CDFs) to motivate and assist beneficiaries to participate actively in the project.

Component C: Strengthening Agricultural Support Services and Project Administration
[Estimated cost at appraisal US$4.969 million; actual expenditures US$6.484 million, of which US$4.194
million from the Bank.]

3.3.4     This component strengthened local government extension facilities and animal health centers,
trained extension workers and village leaders, provided TA for project implementation and monitoring, and
helped overcome budget constraints on recurrent costs that would have hindered implementation. The main
activities were: (a) the construction or rehabilitation of regional extension centers, animal health posts and
seed farms, and the provision of associated equipment and vehicles; and (b) the provision of TA, training
and workshops in project management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), community-based development
planning and implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1.    The pace of project implementation was very slow during the first two years. The project design
proved too complex and disbursements were less than half the level expected. Following the MTR, the
project was restructured giving relatively more emphasis to community-managed credit and NGO provision
of technical services and facilitation. Altogether, the major revisions made to the three components were as
follows:

                                           Table 1 Summary of Components

                         Original                                                    Revised
A. Establishment of the Naibonat Assessment Institute       Transferred to specialized research project.
   for Agricultural Technology
B. Agricultural-Based Area Development
   1. Agricultural development, including intensification,  Provision of grants of seed capital for village-managed
    demonstration plots, livestock, house plot cultivation, credit program.
    through direct provision of farm inputs and
    distribution of cattle/buffalo by line agencies

   2. Construction of village infrastructure                Phased out because of competing to specialized
                                                            infrastructure projects.

   3. Carrying out Local Community Initiatives              Linked to village-managed credit program.
C. Strengthening Agricultural Support Services, with        Full-time management by agencies and services by
   part-time management and services by line agencies,      contracted specialized NGOs to support village-managed
   including training to farmers.                           credit program, including training on financial/credit
                                                            management.



                                                             - 3 -

Details of the MTR revision are as follows:

(a)      the component for supporting the NAIAT was transferred to the ARM II project because it was
         able: (i) to bring specialized R&D expertise; and (ii) to integrate research policy and planning at
         NAIAT into the comprehensive research system involving twelve other provincial AIATs under the
         ARM II project. Supervision of Component A had proved difficult for the NTAADP team,
         particularly in evaluating and monitoring research quality and relevance. The savings realized
         were reallocated to Component B;
(b)      the focus of Component B was changed from one of supply-led distribution of agricultural goods
         and services through the agricultural and livestock line agencies, to one of increased support for
         community-managed initiatives assisted by NGO-contracted CDFs. This was done because of
         community dissatisfaction with the quality, appropriateness and timing of delivery of goods and
         services, aggravated by chronic budget problems with the agencies, irregularities in procurement,
         and inefficiency in distribution of goods. The distribution of inputs and cattle to individuals was
         replaced by a component to support community-managed credit for economic activities;
(c)      work in progress on labor-intensive village infrastructure works was completed, and the
         sub-component was phased out because competing projects in the same area for the same purpose
         were specialized in implementation and supervision of these activities;
(d)      the basis of project management was changed, from a part-time approach diffused through several
         agencies and levels, to a full-time responsibility of local government (BAPPEDA kabupaten); and
(e)      international consultants in general agricultural development were replaced by national consultants
         in rural credit and community development, more appropriate for the changed approach.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The quality of the project at entry is considered to have been unsatisfactory. While the SAR
correctly states that the design was based on experiences with the prior NTASP activities in the same
provinces, there is a clear disconnect with the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the NTASP
which drew attention to " ... the doubtful rationale for the two experimental district-based IADPs ... "
(ICR paragraph 7) which formed the basis for the NTAADP. The problems highlighted in the ICR proved
to be the same as those later encountered in the NTAADP.

3.5.2    Three points are of particular concern. First, while the NTASP indicated the need for upgraded
R&D, it is not clear why the NAIAT was included as a major component since the ARM II project was
already in the early stages of implementation during the preparation of the NTAADP. The ARM II project
was the natural home for research institution support, and a simple amendment of that project could have
included the NAIAT (as was done later). Second, it is not clear why the SAR made such a strong case for
limiting support only to agricultural development and to concentrating on the line agencies for
implementation when the same report discussed a broader approach and emphasized the need for a focus on
developing economic potential at the village level.           Third, while the emphasis on labor-intensive
construction/repair of village roads, water supply, foot-bridges and other small infrastructure was a correct
approach to improving the quality of life and providing better access to markets, the design of arrangements
for technical supervision of works, local procurement, audit of works and financial control were not given
the attention they deserved. For a relatively small project, there were too many sub-components/activities
to be supported and responsibilities were too dispersed among agencies and levels of government.

3.5.3    The project was one of a series of rural development projects in Indonesia of similar design that
were all either restructured (the Sulawesi Agricultural Area Development Project (Loan No. 4007-IND),



                                                      - 4 -

the NTAADP, and the Bengkulu Regional Development Project (Loan No. 4290-IND) or dropped before
detailed preparation (the Jambi Rural Development Project, the Riau Rural Development Project and the
Irian Jaya AADP). A further project of similar design, the Maluku Regional Development Project (Loan
No. 4306-IND) was cancelled soon after loan approval because of civil unrest. The conclusion may be that
the "top down" sectoral development model no longer worked under the changed circumstances in
Indonesia.

3.5.4    No Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review was carried out for this project at entry, although a
QAG review was held after restructuring. The results of the QAG review were satisfactory. Monitoring
and evaluation was strengthened as recommended by the QAG.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    After restructuring, implementation improved substantially and the project achieved much in terms
of the original objectives of raising smallholder incomes, strengthening local institutions, and fostering
broad participation at the grassroots level. However, the restructured project continued to be hampered by
the legacy of the old design in terms of confusion over the project activities, resistance to moving from
in-kind cattle grants to credit, inappropriate selection of participating villages, and other factors. Because
of this, the project did not achieve its objectives to the extent expected. In addition, there was considerable
expenditure of time and funds on activities (such as under-utilized animal health centers) which could have
been better used towards the end of the project to support sustainability. Adhering to the original design
would not have achieved the objective. In fact, by the time of the MTR and restructuring in March 1999
the alternative action was to have been cancellation of the loan because of the poor implementation
performance (see the Sector Manager's memorandum of March 31, 1998, and comments in the Project
Status Report (PSR) of March 2, 1999). This is not surprising, since the supervision mission of August
1997 pointed out that there were still no operating guidelines for the project even though the Loan had
become effective in June 1996. Although a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared in June 1995,
the first detailed project guidelines (operating manual) were not produced until after the MTR, three years
after project start-up and four years after the preparation of the PIP. This appears not to have been a
major problem for Component A (which consisted mostly of building and equipping a government facility)
or for Component C (which consisted mostly of incremental funding of government agency activities using
established procedures). For Component B, however, which involved the distribution of private goods
(cattle, fertilizer and other farm inputs) and grants for community-managed works and other activities, this
was an omission with adverse consequences for implementation progress.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Component A: Establishment of the NAIAT. The outputs of this component are rated as
satisfactory. Prior to the transfer of the component to the ARM II project, many of the research facilities
had already been built and equipped under the project and those works or procurement still in process were
supported through to completion. Similarly, substantial progress on support to research operations was
well under way.       These outputs were evaluated by the ARM II project team and were considered
satisfactory. Administration, laboratory, and staff accommodation buildings were constructed at the two
campuses of the NAIAT. These were satisfactorily equipped with computers, laboratory apparatus, and
other items. Post-graduate studies were supported and the technical library was supplied with books and
journals. National and international consultants assisted in up-grading the research and technology transfer
programs in farming systems, soil and water conservation, irrigation, cattle feeding, forage seed production,


                                                       - 5 -

coastal marine culture and other topics. On-farm demonstrations and pilot trials of research results were
sponsored, and collaborative links were established with universities and extension agencies.               The
component also made a major contribution to technology transfer through supporting studies into the
sociology of innovation in rural communities. The establishment of the network of a total of thirteen
AIATs throughout Indonesia was part of a strategy for regionalization of agricultural research and
development, in order to take into account the large variations in local conditions. In Nusa Tenggara,
especially in NTT, rainfall is relatively low and unreliable, soil conditions are less favorable, and
technology transfer is more difficult than in much of the rest of Indonesia, and this is reflected in the high
incidence of poverty in a sparsely-populated region. Up-grading and otherwise supporting the decentralized
Institute at Naibonat and its Lombok campus was a key step in addressing local needs. Transferring this
component to the ARM II project was clearly the right decision in view of the specialized nature of
management of research institutes. Under the ARM II project, comprehensive research polices were
developed, Regional Advisory Committees and Technical Working Groups were established for oversight
of the Assessment Institutes, and other common support provided to the network.

4.2.2    Component B: Agriculture-Based Area Development.                  The outputs of this component as
originally designed are rated as unsatisfactory, mainly because there were too many sub-components or
activities with unclear procedures for implementation and for managing separate agency agendas and
budgets. While inputs in terms of expenditures and goods distributed were easily identifiable, outputs in
terms of improved production and productivity were not. The outputs of the restructured design are
discernible and are rated satisfactory.       The turnaround was mainly because: (a) the number of
sub-components/activities and agencies was reduced, leading to reduced institutional complexity; (b)
implementation responsibilities and procedures were made clear; (c) the relative shift to community
management was supported by NGO facilitators; and (d) whole-hearted support was given by national and
local government to the re-design.

4.2.3    Demonstration plots visited by the MTR mission were generally poorly designed, located, and
supervised. This confirmed the observations of earlier supervision missions (e.g., as expressed in the
Aide-memoire of August 1997). The linkages from research to extension to farmers were weak, and
responsibility for the demonstration plots seems to have been left to junior staff often without access to
vehicles that had been expressly provided for the purpose. Supervision reports noted the poor up-take of
demonstration recommendations by farmers because of economic or social constraints. This activity, rated
as unsatisfactory, was phased out of the project and left to the ARM II project and the Decentralized
Forestry and Agriculture Extension Project (DAFEP) that had the necessary capacity.

4.2.4    Distribution of free seeds, seedlings, fertilizers and other inputs to motivate technology up-take was
often characterized by waste and inefficiency. The inputs were combined as location-specific packages and
were to be delivered to the farm gate at an appropriate seasonal timing. The main problems (and these
were serious issues) were: delivery of inputs too late for the planting dates; absentee recipients; recipients
not made aware of changed delivery dates; packages being too general; acceptance by farmers of the whole
package in order to get one item only; high procurement costs; and low quality of inputs. These problems
were not specific to this project and had been noted earlier in the ICR for the NTASP and in other projects
using this approach. This activity was rated as unsatisfactory and was dropped, in favor of the provision
of credit to qualifying individuals for purchase of inputs in the market.

4.2.5    Distribution of cattle was the most problematic because of procurement irregularities and delays,
poor reproductive performance, high mortality, and mixed equity impact. Some 14,800 cattle and 1,000
buffaloes were to be procured by the Provincial Livestock Departments in large lots. A total of 2,335
cattle and 300 buffaloes were purchased under six contracts and distributed to 2,635 beneficiaries. Of
these contracts, one encountered serious procurement problems (resulting in incarceration). Part of the



                                                       - 6 -

difficulty was said to be the unfamiliarity of project management with Bank procurement practices which
required National Competitive Bidding with prior review by the Bank. For example, the Bank was first
notified of one intended purchase by receipt of a signed contract for that purchase (which the Bank then
declined to finance). In other cases, contracted suppliers had difficulty in assembling the large quantity for
which they had received the initial payment, resulting in long delays and often poor animal quality. The
procurement problems are difficult to understand since the predecessor NTASP purchased 18,500 head of
cattle without mention of procurement problems either in the ICR or in the supervision reports. The
monitoring report at the time of the MTR noted that of one batch of 62 cattle distributed in NTB, 37 died
of disease soon after delivery. The overall calving rate of project cows was expected to be 65 percent
(compared to 55 percent for non-project cows). A review of the herd records by the MTR veterinarian
indicated that for both NTB and NTT the with-project calving rate was not significantly different from the
without-project rate. In terms of equity, the 15,800 head were to be distributed among 405,000 households
by a working group comprising village and Livestock Department representatives and according to a few
broad beneficiary selection criteria. Regardless of how well this was done, the choice of beneficiaries
endowed them with an asset and status of considerable value and, understandably, this caused jealousies
particularly when few calves were returned to the project for redistribution to further beneficiaries. The
same problems with low calving rates and reluctance to return calves for further distribution had been
encountered in the NTASP (ICR paragraph 37). This component was rated as unsatisfactory and was
phased out following the MTR. The project then financed cattle through the community-managed credit
component with farmers assuming the risks associated with cattle. No problems have been encountered in
buying and selling cattle in local markets other than the usual seasonal price fluctuations.

4.2.6    For farm-to-market access roads, 48 km were rehabilitated or constructed out of 83 km estimated
at appraisal. The average cost of these roads was approximately Rp.39 million/km which compares
favorably with an average cost of approximately Rp.50 million/km used as the standard rate for Public
Works in those years for similar roads. These were rated satisfactory at the time of construction but the
maintenance standards of such infrastructure has been unsatisfactory. The main problem is the difficulty in
properly managing and supervising a widely-dispersed small infrastructure program as a component of an
agricultural project. While the roads component was the largest in terms of cost, it was not large enough to
carry the overhead costs needed to develop an adequate system for low-cost design and supervision. Use of
unskilled village labor and small contractors had the advantage of creating local employment but required
intensive supervision. Although some consultant engineers were employed to assist the District Engineers,
the quality of road work was often only marginally satisfactory, and in NTT some contractor performance
was unacceptable. Responsibility for maintenance was also a problem as budgets and capacity for routine
maintenance were already over-committed before the project works were added. While the SAR required
that only local governments undertaking to carry out the maintenance of project-financed roads would be
selected, disagreements arose over the acceptability of some of the works by the kabupaten engineers, with
the result that the maintenance of project roads is the same as that of other local roads (which is generally
inadequate). Financial control was also a problem, with large numbers of small payments being made for
village labor.

4.2.7    Revolving Funds for Local Community Initiatives. The outputs of this sub-component, which
became the focus of project activities since the MTR in 1999, were satisfactory after the modification of
the original     design at the MTR, from a mix of grants and loosely-defined revolving funds for
community-identified economic activities to revolving funds (credit) only with very clear operating rules.
This was in response to the lessons of experience with implementation up to then, and community
preferences which recognized that full cost-recovery would enable a larger distribution of beneficiaries to
be reached, permit greater transparency in fund management and end the confusion created by multiple cost
recovery requirements. The second major modification in design of this sub-component was the expansion



                                                     - 7 -

of the role and number of the NGO-supplied CDFs and the contracting of rural finance consultants. The
third major modification was to put the management of the revolving funds into the village-level
communities.

4.2.8   During the final three years of implementation, this component became the focus of the project and
evolved many of the characteristics of community-managed micro-finance models, such as credit unions
and cooperatives. The key features of this component, as redesigned, were the following: A village selected
to participate in the component underwent a period of intensive training and preparation during which the
objectives, processes and rules were explained by a project team including a CDF who lived in a cluster of
3 - 5 villages and provided support and a focus for TA.            Following an appraisal of the village
characteristics and potential, the CDF assisted interested members of that village in drawing up proposals
for investments or for the use of working capital. The community elected a credit committee (UPKD) and a
Board of Internal Control (BP). The UPKD members (head, secretary, and treasurer) were given training
in book-keeping and credit management while the BP members were given training in financial supervision.
Upon certification that the training had been completed and other conditions met, a grant of seed capital
was disbursed from the Ministry of Finance to the village account. The loan proposals were evaluated by a
technical committee from relevant agencies to establish quality control standards. The UPKD would then
approve loans based on evaluation of the proposal, the family cash-flow position, relative poverty, amount
of funds available, and other criteria set out in the credit manual. Loans were made to individuals at
interest rates and on terms and conditions similar to those of the People's Bank of Indonesia (BRI) for
similar clients and purposes. Groups were formed to assist in the preparation of proposals and in the
administration of loans and payment collection, and for joint guarantee in cases where this was compatible
with custom. All transactions were recorded, balance sheets and profit & loss statements prepared and
analyzed, and accounts audited.

4.2.9   A total of 166,000 beneficiary families in 477 villages received credit for an amount of Rp.134,699
million (US$15.8 million) as of August 31, 2003, including new loans made from repayments (Table 2).
Interest rates varied from 1.5 to 4 percent per month, on a flat principal, as decided by the community
policy within the guidelines. The BRI reference rate for the period was 1.5 to 2 percent per month. Some
70 percent of loans went to families headed by men (with both spouses signing the loan agreement), while
30 percent of loans went to women without cosigning. The largest loan purpose, 52 percent of loans, was
for diversified, nonfarm activities. These included petty trading, kiosks, weaving, fishing, horse taxis,
processing farm products, pottery, brick and tile making, and motor cycle repair workshop equipment. The
average loan size was Rp.800,000 (about US$94) per beneficiary.            Loan sizes varied from about
Rp.200,000 (for trading) up to Rp.2.5 million (for cattle purchase). Accounts were routinely audited by
the kabupaten auditors and sometimes by provincial auditors. In addition to regular Bank/government
supervision, special audits, loan management and due diligence reviews were made by firms, micro-finance
NGOs, and Bank financial accountability specialists.




                                                    - 8 -

                           Table 2 Credit Disbursed and Purpose by Province


 Province   Beneficiaries Beneficiaries Beneficiaries   Credit      Crops       Livestock    Non- Farm
                                                      Disbursed
                                                      (cumulative)
                Total        Male       Female        (Rupiah       (% of         (% of        (% of
                (no.)        (no.)       (no.)         million)     loans)        loans)       loans)

   NTB        118,000      79,000        39,000        91,123        33             12          55

   NTT         48,000      38,000        10,000        43,576        25             30          45

 TOTAL        166,000      117,000       49,000       134,699        31             17          52
         Source: Project Monitoring Report, August 2003.


4.2.10   Credit Performance - NTB. An amount of Rp.43.9 billion of seed capital was disbursed to the
village accounts managed by the UPKDs over a period of three years. At closing, an amount of Rp.47.1
billion had been re-lent to communities and Rp.1.9 billion was available as cash in hand or the bank.
Savings mobilized from the communities amounted to Rp.1.7 billion and loan loss provisioning was Rp.284
million. Total interest income was some Rp.18 billion and profit on operations net of costs was Rp.4.2
billion. The on-time loan repayment rate as a first approximation of credit performance (defined as
payments collected as a percentage of payments due) at Loan closing was 88 percent. For five of the six
kabupatens in NTB, the repayment rate was at or close to 90 percent which soon could be expected to
reach acceptable levels of debt service with continued training and experience with credit management.
The exception was Dompu kabupaten where repayment was only 50 percent of amounts due, even though
about 90 percent of the loans were being serviced, as a result of recurrent drought and failure to diversify
the portfolios. The acceptable performance in the rest of the Province was the result largely of the
diversified portfolio reflecting relatively favorable business conditions. Some 55 percent of credit was
invested in nonfarm activities, 33 percent in cropping and 12 percent in livestock. Analytical work to
prepare standard credit performance indicators (loan:asset ratios, return on equity/loans, capital adequacy,
aging of over-due payments) has begun but requires further TA.

4.2.11   Credit Performance - NTT. Social and business conditions in NTT are among the most difficult in
Indonesia and this is reflected in the credit performance. The repayment rate was highest, at 70 percent, for
Timor Tengah Utara and the lowest was 33 percent for Sumba Barat; the overall rate was 52 percent.
These non-sustainable recovery levels are the result of limited opportunities to diversify the loan portfolio
and poor credit management compounded by difficult climatic and social conditions. The quality of the
loan portfolio is lower than that at NTB; however, it should be noted that little re-scheduling has been done
and application of standard re-scheduling would improve these rates. Also depressing these indicators is
the inclusion of the pre-restructuring cattle grants which were re-negotiated as loans though most of the
beneficiaries felt unfairly treated and have been reluctant to repay. The micro-finance consultants worked
with the UPKDs to improve credit management over the three years but the problems with the early loans
continued to affect portfolio quality in the absence of a suitable write-off and re-scheduling policy.

4.2.12   Component C: Strengthening Agricultural Support Services and Project Administration
This outputs of this component are rated as unsatisfactory, on balance. Training and some TA were
successful while support to extension facilities, provision of vehicles, and contribution to incremental


                                                        - 9 -

operating costs produced mixed results. A total of 38 rural extension centers and 20 animal health centers
were rehabilitated or constructed, and improvements were made on 11 government seed farms. The SAR
drew attention to the inadequate pre-project maintenance and utilization of these facilities and the Bank
received an assurance that a management plan would be prepared and implemented for each facility
benefiting from the project. During supervision missions, the project-supported facilities were found still to
be inadequately staffed, utilized and maintained, mainly because this was a systemic budgetary issue that
could not be properly addressed by the project. The animal health centers were of particular concern
because these were to have provided the technical support to the cattle distribution program. Typical
problems encountered to varying degrees in different locations were: qualified staff were not available on
regular basis, a shortage of medicines, no water supply, and no electrical connection for refrigerated
vaccine storage.

4.2.13   In total, 32 vehicles and 162 motor cycles were provided for field services to implement the project
(these were not financed by the Bank). Following restructuring, these should have been re-assigned to
match the changed institutional transport needs for implementation and supervision. This was only partly
done and transport remained a constraint on management through to the end of the project despite Bank and
government repeatedly bringing this to the attention of provincial and local governments.

4.2.14. Project orientation training, workshops and seminars were central to the eventual success of the
project because the community-management approach was novel and subject to misinterpretation. Training
of UPKD personnel in book-keeping, loan administration and financial management was essential and
successful. Workshops on rural finance and practical management problems were greatly appreciated by
UPKDs which formed forums or groups as the first stage of second-tier association. However, much of the
early training was not well focused because of the unclear direction of the project and absence of functional
directions. Once this was resolved and operational guidelines and manuals were produced, training quality
was generally satisfactory.

4.2.15   TA provided by consultants and CDFs was only partly successful. First, the firms and personnel
contracted in response to the original project design were retained for too long after the restructuring. The
change in focus from general agricultural development to community-managed rural credit required firms
and individuals with different specializations. The poor fit between services provided and services needed
was a continuous issue.        Second, procurement of firms to supply CDFs was hampered by poor
procurement management on the part of the provincial agencies responsible, particularly in NTT where
CDFs were left unpaid for more than six months on one occasion because of avoidable procurement delays.
Third, selection, supervision and management of CDFs and financial consultants by the firms was often
unsatisfactory. There were, though, some outstanding exceptions of both firms and individuals carrying
out their work despite difficult circumstances. For example, bridging finance was used by one firm to pay
CDFs during delays in budget release, and many CDFs remained active at their posts despite uncertainty
about getting paid.

4.2.16   Support to recurrent costs was unable to overcome persistent budget approval and release
problems because all funding had to come through the government budget system. In addition, (a) approval
and release dates for the central government, provincial and kabupaten shares of project budgets came at
different times, and (b) rollover rules for the Bank-reimbursed share were different from those of the
non-reimbursable share. Budget rules changed several times during the project. At time of Loan closing on
September 30, 2003, the provincial portion of the NTB budget for project supervision had not yet been
released for the budget year starting January 1, 2003. These delays had an adverse impact on project
performance and contributed to the unreasonable delays in hiring and paying CDFs.



                                                    - 10 -

4.2.17   M&E was satisfactory in that the relevant data were collected. However, the data were not utilized
to contribute to timely improvements in management. This was initially caused by the unclear and diffused
management responsibilities and subsequently by the project implementation unit not possessing the
necessary analytical and management skills.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    For Component A, it is assumed that the rate of return for the NAIAT is the same (14.5 percent) as
that calculated for the group of AIATs made in the ICR of the ARM II project. For the micro-finance
activities of Component B, financial benefit:cost ratios were calculated. For the village works activities of
Component B, use of village labor and materials is assumed to be a social least-cost solution. For
Component C, no rate of return was calculated since benefits are already captured in the benefits of other
components (Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    A beneficiary impact survey was carried out at the time of project closing. The survey, contracted
by BANGDA, took a sample of 56 villages involving 168 community groups with 338 project households
and 72 non-project households. The result of the survey reflect the outcome from the implementation of the
revolving fund component which has been the focus of implementation over the project's last 4 years.
According to the survey findings, investment financed by project household credit resulted in an increase in
family income of between 14 and 91 percent compared to the control group (Table 3). Incomes rose by
between 28 to 91 percent for investments in agricultural activities,       14 to 50 percent for livestock
investments, and 57 to 70 percent for investments in nonfarm activities. In dollar terms, incomes rose on
average from US$1.3/day to US$1.9/day, or an increase of US$0.6/day, also reflecting the fact that this
majority of project beneficiaries came from poorer groups, with pre-project incomes of around $1/day.
Households from 168 groups were surveyed in 56 UPKDs. The UPKDs were selected to represent a
cross-section of performance ratings. Of the UPKDs sampled, 14 were categorized as good, 28 as
satisfactory and 14 as unsatisfactory. The results indicated that UPKD performance ratings were not
strongly correlated to the size of the increase in beneficiaries' income levels. Project guidelines required
that only those activities should be financed that demonstrated a benefit:cost ratio greater than one and for
which the expected increase in family income could service the loan payments. In general, this was
followed and resulted in a high demand for repeat loans.

                      Table 3 Increase in Beneficiaries' Household
                                Income compared with Control Group.
                                      (% increase in income)



             Loan Use                        NTT                     NTB

              Agriculture                     28                      91
              Livestock                       14                      50
              Other                           57                      70



The beneficiaries impact study conducted interviews with various stakeholders, including beneficiaries,
UPKD management, project management, consultants, and CDFs.               They generally agreed that the
extension of credit had boosted economic activity and the incomes of the beneficiaries.



                                                     - 11 -

4.4.2 Financial Performance of UPKDs. The UPKDs were rated by the micro-finance consultants based
on repayment rates, management quality, portfolio quality and other indicators. Problems with data quality
and inconsistency in classifying over-due payments prevented the standard CAMEL (capital, asset quality,
management, earnings, liquidity) calculations, and the results shown in Table 4 are only indicative at best.
For the project as a whole, about 26 percent of UPKDs were rated as unsatisfactory, 50 percent as
satisfactory, and 24 percent as good (highest level). In NTB, 15 percent were rated unsatisfactory while in
NTT about 35 percent were unsatisfactory. If further support to the UPKDs is forthcoming, those
classified as good and most of those classified as satisfactory would probably reach sustainability while
most of those rated unsatisfactory would not, because of the prevailing weak cash economy and the
resulting lack of opportunities to diversify away from subsistence farming or because of unwillingness of
the communities to participate. Without training, supervision and auditing, relatively few UPKDs would
survive. While the participating kabupatens have budgeted for post-project support, this would be less
than the level provided under the project.

                                             Table 4 UPKD Performance
                                                        (Number of UPKDs)



              Provinces               Good           Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           Total

             NTB                      86                  96                   32                214
             NTT                      26                 144                   93                263
             NTAADP                   112                240                  125                477


4.5 Institutional development impact:


4.5.1    At the level of the villages, the project had a substantial institutional development impact in
promoting social change concurrent with political liberalization. The project interventions helped restore
the community decision-making, transparency and accountability of leaders that were lost during the time
of authoritarian government directed from the center.        One measure of the change was the strong
community ownership of the restructured project in comparison with the original top-down design. The
project created non-formal financial structures in the communities that provide a rich institutional basis for
the introduction of community-managed micro-finance. The institutional challenge now is to sustain and
further develop these achievements. Had the project been better managed and budgets released on time, the
repayment rates and portfolio quality would probably have improved markedly. The project clearly
demonstrated to the banks and other financial institutions in Indonesia that the rural poor and near-poor are
bankable. It is important to note that despite Indonesia's reputation as a world leader in micro-finance,
most rural people in fact have no access to micro-credit services. The project attempted to demonstrate to
government that the poor do not need subsidized credit but sustained access to credit on the same terms as
everyone else. Parts of the government directly involved in the project seem to have been influenced by this
approach, but the project size was simply too small and the policy linkages too weak to have a wider policy
impact.    At the village level, while the UPKD institutions evolved towards community-managed
smallholder credit entities, the necessary upward linkages with financial institutions were not made.




                                                    - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1   The Asian economic crisis began in January 1997, six months after the loan was declared effective.
The crisis had a major adverse impact on the project resulting from the devaluation (from Rp.2,200 to a
low of Rp.15,700 per US$ in August 1998). This resulted in the government request to cancel US$4.9
million of the US$27.0 million loan in order to reduce its foreign debt. It also affected the ability of the
government and local government to provide adequate counterpart funding, particularly for recurrent costs.
It aggravated the already-chronic problem of late approval and release of the budget because of the
uncertainty about domestic costs and prices. In general, the late release of funds was a more important
constraint than the level of funding.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


5.2.1   The Decentralization Law (No.22 of 1999) and the Fiscal Autonomy Law (No. 25 of 1999) had a
mixed impact on the project, strengthening the role of the kabupaten governments and weakening that of
the Provincial governments. Since the former had the main responsibility for project implementation, this
change improved implementation performance.          The change also simplified the planning and budget
preparation process. Nevertheless, the development budget system and the political processes involved
remained the single most powerful forces working against the project. The annual budget was based on the
expected full year of implementation. In 2001, for example, the budget was released only in October for
the financial year that began in January, leaving only two months to implement the year's work program
before unspent counterpart funds were cancelled. Each year, this problem occurred to some degree
indicating the need for reform. The result of this was seen in the field, where project staff were chronically
unable to carry out the intensity of local supervision.       This also affected the timely contracting of
NGO-supplied CDFs, often leaving workers unpaid for months and with an adverse impact on their morale
and ability to assist the communities.      Procurement delays were common and aggravated the CDF
contracting problems. Procurement of the NGOs was managed by the two provincial governments rather
than by the fourteen kabupaten governments involved for efficiency reasons. However, the separation of
contracting from implementation often decreased efficiency as provincial authorities had a different
appreciation of circumstances in the field and were generally slow to respond to contractor problems and to
supervise adequately.     On occasion, provincial authorities sought to avoid complying with agreed
procurement rules, resulting in lengthy gaps in the provision of CDFs, the main change agents in the
project.

5.2.2   The Policy Context.        At the time that the project was prepared and during much of the
implementation period, the government did not have a defined micro-finance policy to provide sustainable,
savings-led financial services to the rural poor. The BRI generally mobilized rural savings for lending to
other sectors and to rural entrepreneurs fitting the narrow definition of creditworthy, leaving most
smallholders without formal credit services. The policy for meeting smallholder credit needs was through
large subsidized smallholder programs mainly provided via the government-sponsored cooperatives for
agriculture (Kredit Usaha Tani). These were characterized by negative real interest rates with poor credit
supervision and discipline. The project as originally designed had no policy reform content. At project
restructuring, many features of community-managed micro-finance were introduced at the project level.
However, these were not part of a general policy reform initiative and the government programs continued.
The poor fit between the government's general policy and the project caused many difficulties for
implementation, especially where the subsidized programs continued in the same or adjacent villages, and


                                                     - 13 -

frequently resulted in confusion and exploitation of differences. In the latter years of the project, a
micro-finance reform dialogue did begin between the government and the donor community but remained
ineffectual at the project level. Subsidized program credits remain the predominant policy and resource
commitment.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1     The Loan Agreement names the NTT and NTB Provincial Development Planning Agencies
(BAPPEDA Province) as the implementing agencies. Upon the passage of the Decentralization and Fiscal
Autonomy Laws, the responsibility for implementation effectively shifted to the kabupatens. In general,
the District BAPPEDAs gave full support to the project but were constrained by budgetary problems and
those arising from the mismatch between their skills and those needed to implement what increasingly
became a smallholder credit operation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1     At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$41.1 million of which the Bank
Loan was intended to finance US$27.0 million, the government contribution was to be US$12.4 million and
the beneficiary contribution was to be US$1.7 million. At Loan Closing, the total disbursement by the
Bank was US$22.06 million and the government counterpart contribution was US$5.19 million. The
contribution by the beneficiaries is not known as much of this was in kind (e.g., labor). All regular audits
of the project accounts were on time and follow-up actions on findings were responsive. In addition to the
annual audit of accounts, the Bank contracted three independent audits and financial reviews were carried
by the Bank's financial staff. All the reviewers found that financial management was satisfactory.

5.4.2.    In terms of productive resource transfer to the poor, the project was considered satisfactory. At
appraisal, the value of provision of goods in kind and of grants to community initiatives was expected to be
approximately US$15 million out of a total project cost of about US$41 million. At Loan closing, the
value of resources transferred to the poor was US$10.88 million out of the total actual project costs of
US$27.78 million. It would have been difficult to increase substantially the level of resource transfer
because of constraints on the absorptive capacity of beneficiaries and the increased Rupiah value of the
transfer (which increased from the expected value of about Rp. 30 billion to the actual value of about Rp.
94 billion following devaluation).

                                   Table 5. Resource Transfer

Item                                Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
                                      (US $ million)                  (US$ million)
Farm Inputs                                 1.75                          0.76
Fertilizer                                  0.26                          0.06
Breeding animals                            5.50                          0.27
Community initiatives                       7.40                          9.79
Total                                      14.91                         10.88
Total (in Rp. Billion)                     30.00                         94.00
Source: SAR Annex 5, Table 1, and Project Accounts




                                                     - 14 -

5.4.3    Procurement Post Review and Financial Audit. Between April and June 2003, a special external
review and audit was made of the procurement and financial management by the project implementation
units (PIUs) and the financial management by the UPKDs. The objectives of the review were to verify
whether the funds disbursed to finance project activities were: (a) used for the purposes intended; (b)
eligible for financing; (c) correctly authorized under the agreed procurement procedures; and (d) used in
ways which minimized chances of wastage and misuse. The review also verified the adequacy of internal
control procedures. A total of six PIUs at province and kabupaten levels and 45 UPKDs were examined,
out of a total of sixteen PIUs and 477 UPKDs in NTB and NTT.

5.4.4    The findings on PIU performance were that:
      the PIUs had satisfactory procurement and financial management controls;
      the performance of financial management practice was acceptable; and
      irregularities occurred in financial management by NGOs resulting in under-payment of CDFs with
         adverse impact on project performance.        The auditors recommended that individual work
         agreements should be signed by the NGOs with each CDF and that money owed to CDFs under the
         terms of the consultancy contract with the project should be paid by the NGOs.

5.4.5    The review of UPKD performance found that there was evidence of some irregularities and/or
weak institutional performance in all 45 UPKDs examined. These included:
      loan repayment performance was lower than that required by individual loan agreements between
         the UPKDs and the sub-borrowers;
      weak support to UPKD by village officials;
      noncompliance with operational guidelines on cash management and loan documentation; and
      misuse of funds by UPKD management and facilitators.

Not all of the above were found in all UPKDs. Of twenty-four UPKDs examined in Lombok, only one was
found to show a difference between amounts recorded as disbursed and amounts actually disbursed.
Similarly, of fifteen UPKDs examined in Ende two were found to be essentially managed by a single
individual rather than by the elected secretariat.       Of twenty-four UPKDs examined, two showed
disbursement to CDFs (ineligible payments). Of forty-five UPKDs reviewed in Ende, Lombok, and
Sumbawa, the management of seventeen used some funds without the required community agreements.
The auditors recommended closer and more frequent supervision and the restitution of misused funds.

5.4.6    Outcome Summary The outcome of the project was substantially different from that expected at
appraisal, and as noted earlier, there are two clear phases of project implementation. Up to the MTR,
implementation was guided by the project design as appraised and outcome was unsatisfactory; however,
since the MTR, the focus of the project was on developing a community-managed credit program where the
outcome was clearly satisfactory. The development of an up-graded regional research and technology
capacity was satisfactory but this was only partly the result of the project. The on-farm demonstrations
accompanied by grants of inputs and the provision of cattle (effectively on a grant basis) had little impact
on productivity; the village infrastructure program was unlikely to lead to measurable increase in market
access, except in a few cases, and must also be rated unsatisfactory. The community-managed credit
program had mixed results, partly because the participating villages had been preselected by a process not
related to their economic potential and willingness to cooperate and partly because of the adverse
smallholder credit policy environment. Where communities were properly prepared and where investment
opportunities existed, the outcome of this component was highly satisfactory.       The TA and training
program, particularly the acceptance of a larger role for NGOs in project implementation, was generally
satisfactory but initially not well focused. While there was generally satisfactory performance of the



                                                    - 15 -

community-based credit component, covering the last four years of the project, the outcome of the project
as a whole is rated as unsatisfactory. This rating is based on the outcome of the total project, and includes
the less than satisfactory performance of various components prior to the MTR. It should be pointed out
that this leads to a disconnect with the final PSR rating of satisfactory, which was based only on the
implementation performance over the past four years since restructuring (when it became essentially a
community-managed smallholder credit project).             The project prepared many communities for
micro-finance and demonstrated to stakeholders that under the proper conditions the rural poor of Indonesia
are creditworthy.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the achievements of the project is uncertain, with the exception of the research
center, and must consequently be rated as unlikely. The village infrastructure, animal health and extension
centers, and other facilities are already suffering from poor maintenance. The cattle distribution program
has received very little in-kind repayment and is effectively stopped. The performance of the UPKDs has
been promising, and some are already operating sustainability. However, the maximum of four years (and,
in the case of newer UPKDs, one year) of technical support, training and supervision which has so far been
possible since the MTR, is clearly insufficient to secure full sustainability of these village-based
institutions.  This will require further support, as will the need to protect the UPKDs from outside
interference. It is important to point out that, while sustainability is presently rated as "unlikely", important
follow-up actions are in process that should ensure that the institutional developments realized so far with
UPKDs under the project are indeed sustained. These include the following: (a) Central and District
Governments have allocated budget for monitoring, supervision, facilitation, and audit of the UPKDs; (b)
German TA (GTZ) has already begun a project activity (in response to the Bank partnership with GTZ)
around the new Sustaining Micro-finance Project (SMFP) which will support the revolving funds
established under the project in NTB; and (c) the proposed SMFP which should be approved in FY05
specifically targets the provinces covered by the three Area Development Projects, including the NTAADP,
and will provide continuing support to secure sustainability of qualifying UPKDs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    Following the recommendation of a workshop held in July 2003, which addressed the issue of
post-project closure sustainability (involving central and local governments, and the UPKDs), the
government and the involved local governments have budgeted to continue this support for FY 2004. In
some cases, the local governments are expanding the coverage of UPKDs with their own resources and
intend to adopt the approach as a regular part of their development activities.             Most UPKDs have
informally associated into forums, and in many cases advisory relationships with the rural banking system
are being developed. The main concern is that the UPKDs do not fit into the regular operations of local
government, NGOs or the banking system and there has not been sufficient time to develop the mutual
interest needed to foster institutional linkages.     Options for rural bank linkages as well as a viable
supervising framework, are being explored by the Bank and the government, and will be a central feature
of the preparation work ongoing for the SMFP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                     - 16 -

7.1.1    The Bank's performance in the lending process was unsatisfactory. Although the project was
designed on the basis of lessons learned from an earlier Bank-supported project (the NTASP) which
covered the same two provinces and consisted of support to extension, credit in kind for inputs, small
infrastructure and community involvement, there were clear signs from the NTASP that the model being
used would encounter similar difficulties. The ICR of that project was quite clear that there was " ...
doubtful rationale for district-based IADPs ... " because of the multiple activities involved leading to
institutional complexity, yet the project was designed on precisely this basis. The major shortcoming in
preparation was that insufficient attention was paid to implementation details, with the result that the PIP
was not sufficiently well-developed to enable operational guidelines to be prepared in time. The first set of
operational guidelines for the project was issued after the MTR; this was the result of incomplete
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    Early supervision missions reported on the project management problems arising from the absence
of detailed operational guidelines. The supervision mission of August 1997, a year after loan effectiveness,
reported that some parts of the guidelines needed to be finalized while others needed to be redrafted. The
Bank team was proactive in restructuring the project, ones implementation became unsatisfactory. The
Bank's supervision performance following restructuring was highly satisfactory and the supervision team
played a key role in project restructuring. Without the assistance of the supervision team at the MTR, it is
unlikely that implementation performance would have improved and the only option would probably have
been loan cancellation. The team did not hesitate to rate performance as unsatisfactory and was pro-active
in helping to resolve the issues. In particular, the in-country Bank team worked closely with BANGDA
and local government on a continuing basis. Specialist supervision inputs were made to assist with
financial management, procurement and disbursements, giving assistance in project management and
evaluation of performance. Supervision teams met frequently with rural banks at local and headquarters
levels to foster relations between micro-finance institutions (MFIs) and the village credit units established
by the project. These often resulted in the provision of ad hoc technical advice but, in the absence of a
policy for lending to this target group long regarded as unbankable, this support did not become
institutionalized.  During implementation, the Bank responded promptly to government's requests for
amendments to cancel part of the Loan amount, to reallocate funds among categories, and to increase the
financing percentages of key items to ensure that counterpart funding delays for these items did not block
implementation progress.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The overall performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory despite the unsatisfactory rating for
lending. The top-down design of the project was essentially the same as that used by preceding projects,
which had been considered satisfactory.       The major upheavals resulting from the financial crisis,
decentralization, and political change could not have been anticipated. Once the Bank realized the need for
restructuring, full support was given to supervision teams and the Bank responded quickly and fully to
government requests. The Bank readily sponsored outside reviews of the credit program.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The government's performance in project preparation was unsatisfactory. On the positive side, a
full-time preparation team worked closely with the Bank team and consultants. The major shortcoming
was the long delay in producing the operational guidelines. At least part of the problem seems to have been



                                                   - 17 -

that there were too many agencies involved, each with its own operating procedures that continued to apply
for its part of the project. BANGDA's ability to bring the sector agencies together to produce an integrated
operational manual was limited until the strong sectoral design of the project was modified after the
restructuring. This foreshadowed the difficulties in bringing the agencies together during implementation
and was an indicator of the need for a reduction in complexity. Operational guidelines should be produced
as early as possible in the project cycle to avoid long delays in implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The main government agencies involved were the Ministry of Finance, BAPPENAS and BANGDA
at the central level, and BAPPEDAS at the regional level. Overall, their performance was satisfactory.
The government responded promptly to the recommendations of the joint government/Bank MTR and
supervision missions. Despite the financial crisis, the government continued to supply counterpart funding.
The issue of late release of funds was the result, in large part, of the political process for budget approval
which was outside the government's control.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Assessment of the performance of the implementing agencies is difficult because of the complexity
of matching agencies and responsibilities. The SAR named the Ministry of Home Affairs (BANGDA), the
Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and the District Governments of the Provinces of NTB and NTT. The
Loan Agreement identifies AARD (within MoA) and the Provincial Governments of NTB and NTT. The
SAR provided for coordination through two committees, at national and provincial levels, with secretariats.
Project Management Units were established at provincial and kabupaten levels and PIUs were established
in the technical agencies. This arrangement proved only partly suitable. There were too many project
units, and the respective heads and most of the staff were only able to work part-time on the project. By
the time of the MTR, this had become unworkable. Following the MTR, BANGDA became the main
implementing agency at the national level and the kabupaten governments's BAPPEDAS became the main
agencies for field implementation. Key project staff then worked full-time on the project. This was
consistent with the eventual regional autonomy law. The performance of both BANGDA and BAPPEDAS
was satisfactory within the limits imposed by the budgetary and other constraints, including the delayed
preparation of detailed operational guidelines.       The performance of the provincial governments was
satisfactory in the case of NTB but unsatisfactory in the case of NTT where provincial procurement of
NGOs for supply and supervision of CDFs was chronically delayed. This had a major adverse impact on
the performance of the project in NTT where the need for CDFs was greatest.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. The unsatisfactory performance
during the first two years was the result of management weakness, unclear project guidelines, and the
complexity of the project design.       However, there was satisfactory performance in the latter years,
especially in promoting local community initiatives.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Project design should be simple and focused. In this case, the relatively modest incremental
resources brought by the project were unable to resolve systemic institutional issues in research, extension,
supervision and maintenance of rural works, farm credit, livestock marketing, and local government
finance, among others.




                                                     - 18 -

8.2      More attention should have been paid to the broader policy context and the specific linkages of the
project to policy reform. In this case, the free inputs and subsidized cattle were meant to motivate
technology change to further the poverty alleviation policy goal but ran counter to the rural credit policy
reform goal. In addition, some minimum sub-sector policy consistency is necessary. In this project, the
poorly supervised and subsidized government program credits through the cooperatives sector caused many
problems for the UPKDs in trying to maintain credit discipline.

8.3      Operational manuals setting out details of how a project is to be implemented at all levels should be
prepared prior to Loan approval, to ensure that preparation is adequate and that all involved partners have
a clear and common understanding of the project and its resource implications. Detailed preparation of an
operational manual would have highlighted the need for design modification prior to start-up.

8.4      Revolving funds in nonfinancial sector projects are unlikely to succeed without institutional and
policy support from the financial sector. Line agencies of governments generally do not have the requisite
mandate and skills.

8.5      There is a role for community-managed micro-finance in Indonesia, but this should be savings-led
and integrated with the rural banking system.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1      In general, the performance of the IMS-Program in the Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Area
Development Project (NTAADP, IBRD Loan No. 3984-IND) is satisfactory and considered successful in
improving local government support and community participatory for development of economic activities
among poor people in West Nusa Tenggara and East Nusa Tenggara Provinces. However, we should still
pay attention to the following weaknesses: (a) socialization of IMS Program in the NTAADP; and (b)
appropriateness of facilitator availability and capability as people counterpart.

9.2      Experiences show that the support of local government in any level (Sub-district, District and
Province) is still required by local community, as well as technical assistance concerning credit
management and capital adequacy from formal banking entities.

9.3      IMS Program in the NTAADP through micro-finance provides plentiful assistance to local
community in developing community-owned economic business in areas of business capital supply.


(b) Cofinanciers:

None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None

10. Additional Information

None




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



      INDICATOR                APPRAISAL                 MTR ESTIMATE             ACTUAL AT PROJECT
                               ESTIMATE                                                  CLOSING
OUTCOME/IMPACT
INDICATORS
Component A:

 Establishment of
 NAIAT                        Number and skill        Good progress on           Basic skills upgraded
  Research quality at        mix of staff              research but poor          and augmented with
   international standard     appropriate to            standard of field          post-graduate degrees
   and relevant to regional   NAIAT mandate.            demonstrations and         and field trial
   conditions.                                          technology transfer.       techniques.
                                                        Transferred to ARM II      Socioeconomic analysis
                                                        Project.                   introduced.
 Component B:

  Area Development
  Increased incomes of      Incremental             Little impact on            Beneficiary survey
   adopters.                 benefit/cost ratios >      outcomes.                  indicates household
                             2.                                                    incomes about
                                                                                   16%-90% higher for
                                                                                   adopters.

  Sustainable               Kabupaten and           Weak impact on agencies.    Project supports
   development of local      kecamatan                                             decentralization
   institutions.             government takes                                      following Laws No. 22
                             stronger role in                                      and 25 on regional
                             development.                                          autonomy.


  Communities actively      Village-level choice     Impact on communities      Villagers fully in
   involved in               from menu of               often adverse because of   charge of their own
   development planning      activities                 unequal and obscure        economic development
   and implementation.       implemented mainly         distribution of benefits.  through UPKD credit
                             by local government.       Infrastructure program     program.
                                                        poor quality and
                                                        transferred to specialized
                                                        project.
 Component C:

 Support Services
  Extension services able   Livestock and           Construction and            Extension services
   to deliver relevant and   cropping extension         rehabilitation of          integrated into CDD
   high quality advice.      services able to offer     extension and animal       program based on
                             improved technology        health centers under way   community demand.
                             and animal health          but operations             Still constrained by
                             services.                  unsatisfactory because of  operating budget
                                                        budget and staffing        problems.
                                                        problems.



                                                   - 20 -

OUTPUT INDICATORS
 Component A:

Establishment of NAIAT
 Expansion and            New facilities at       Facilities at Naibonat and  Laboratories, offices,
  rehabilitation of        Naibonat and              Mataram substantially        and equipment
  regional R&D facilities. Mataram.                 complete.                     completed and
                                                                                  operational.

 Establish long-run       Development of          HR policy and plan not       HR policy and master
  direction and focus for  human resources          integrated into the national  plan in place as part of
  location-specific        policy and research      system.                       national autonomous
  agricultural and         master plan.                                           R&D system
  livestock research.

 Upgrading the            Foreign and local       International collaboration  Twining and
  standard of regional     TA and training,         begun.                        collaboration with
  R&D.                     collaboration with                                     international centers
                           international                                          established.
                           research centers.


 R&D programs             R&D targeted to         R & D unevenly targeted to  Strategic Plan
 location-specific.        local resource and       local conditions.             completed and updated
                           socioeconomic                                          to respond to
                           conditions.                                            decentralization and
                                                                                  new emphasis on
                                                                                  agribusiness.

 Improved capacity of     Agro-ecological         Agro-ecological studies      Agro-ecological studies
 NAIAT to respond to       zones defined and          under way.                  completed and regional
 regional needs.           research programs                                      programs in place.
                           adjusted.

 Increased adoption rate  Farmers' uptake of      Farmers' uptake of           About 80,000
 of improved technology.   productivity             technology                    beneficiaries of
                            improvements            recommendations limited       improved agricultural
                           increased, about         by credit shortage and        technologies.
                           40,000 beneficiaries.    relevance.

 Component B:

Area Development
 Demonstration plots.     265 schemes, each of  159 schemes, each of 5         Transferred to ARM II
                           5 ha.                      ha.                         project.

 Distribution of free     16,800 farmers          8,000 farmers receiving      Converted to credit,
  inputs.                  receiving seeds,           inputs.                     about 50,000 farm
                           seedlings, fertilizer,                                 families benefiting on
                           and tools, one time                                    revolving basis.
                           only.




                                                 - 21 -

 Distribution of cattle.  17,000 head of cattle  2,635 head of cattle and    Converted to credit,
                           and buffalos              buffalos distributed.      about 28,000 farm
                           distributed.                                         families benefiting on
                                                                                revolving basis.

 Roads, culverts,         83 km constructed.     30 km constructed           48 km constructed,
 bridges.                                                                       sub-component
                                                                                transferred to
                                                                                competing small
                                                                                infrastructure programs.

 Revolving Funds for      25,000 families        10,000 families benefiting  166,000 families
 Community Initiatives.    benefiting from mix       from mix of grants and     benefiting on
                           of grants and credit.     credit.                    continuing basis from
                                                                                credit with full
                                                                                cost-recovery and
                                                                                market interest rates.

Component C:

Support Services
 Extension facilities.    11 new and 11           7 new and 7 rehabilitated  20 animal health
                           rehabilitated             animal health posts; 2     centers, 38 extension
                           government animal         new and 15 rehabilitated   centers, and 11 seed
                           health posts; 2 new       extension centers; and     farms rehabilitated or
                           and 17 rehabilitated      11 seed farms upgraded.    constructed.
                           government extension
                           centers; 14
                           government seed
                           farms upgraded.

 Training and             Training,              Training, workshops, and  Training given to
 workshops.                workshops, and            seminars for about 1,000   1,500 community credit
                           seminars for about        people.                    staff, 500 facilitators
                           3,100 people.                                        and project staff as well
                                                                                as project orientation to
                                                                                about 150,000
                                                                                beneficiaries.

 TA.                      70 months of           30 months of community      82 months of
                           community                 facilitation provided by   community facilitation
                           facilitation provided     local NGOs.                provided by NGOs.
                           by local NGOs.

 Incremental operating    Local government        Local governments not      Local governments not
 costs.                    able to provide full      able to provide operating  able to provide
                           operating costs.          funds for adequate         operating funds for
                                                     supervision and support.   adequate supervision
                                                                                and support.




                                                - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Costs by Component
(including contingencies, in US$ million equivalent)

                Component                         Appraisal    Actual/Latest % of Appraisal
                                                   Estimate      Estimate      Estimate
                                                (US$ million)  (US$ million)
 Assessment Institute for Agricultural                5.37         2.29           42.6
 Technology (AIAT)
 Area Development                                    30.73        19.01           61.9
 Support Services                                     4.97         6.48         130.4
 Total                                               41.07        27.78           67.6



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB              2      N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             1.30        8.00         0.00          9.30
                                    (0.00)            (0.80)     (5.20)       (0.00)        (6.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.60        2.80         2.10          5.50
                                    (0.00)            (0.60)     (2.50)       (0.00)        (3.10)
3. Services                          0.91             0.89        2.80         0.00          4.60
Consultant Services,                (0.91)            (0.89)     (2.70)       (0.00)        (4.50)
Training, Research,
Mapping, Survey & Design
4. Breeding animals                  0.00             5.50        0.00         0.00          5.50
                                    (0.00)            (5.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)        (5.00)
5. Goods and Works for               0.00             0.00        7.40         0.00          7.40
Local Community                     (0.00)            (0.00)     (5.20)       (0.00)        (5.20)
Initiatives
6. Recurrent Costs, Labor            0.00             0.00        7.07         1.70          8.77
Demonstrations,                     (0.00)            (0.00)     (3.30)       (0.00)        (3.30)
replications
   Total                             0.91             8.29       28.07         3.80          41.07
                                    (0.91)            (7.29)     (18.90)      (0.00)        (27.10)




                                                   - 23 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.48             0.00              0.48
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.31)            (0.00)           (0.31)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              1.25             0.08              1.33
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.01)            (0.00)           (1.01)
  3. Services                              0.70               5.14              0.28             0.00              6.12
  Consultant Services,                    (0.63)             (4.41)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (5.32)
  Training, Research,
  Mapping, Survey & Design
  4. Breeding animals                      0.00               0.27              0.00             0.00              0.27
                                          (0.00)             (0.23)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.23)
  5. Goods and Works for                   0.00               0.00             15.29             0.00             15.29
  Local Community                         (0.00)             (0.00)           (13.59)            (0.00)           (13.59)
  Initiatives
  6. Recurrent Costs, Labor                0.00               0.00              4.29             0.00              4.29
  Demonstrations,                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.64)            (0.00)           (1.64)
  replications
      Total                                0.70               5.41             21.59             0.08             27.78
                                          (0.63)             (4.64)           (16.83)            (0.00)           (22.10)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component A                    3.85         1.52                     1.75         0.53                  45.5      34.9
Component B                   19.17        11.56                    16.16         2.85                  84.3      24.7
Component C                    4.08         0.89                     4.19         2.30                  102.7    258.4


Total                         27.10        13.97                    22.10         5.68                  81.5      40.7




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


A.3.1    The economic rate of return (ERR) calculated during appraisal was 17 percent for the whole
project with the benefits of R&D (Component A) and institutional support (Component C) being captured
in the value of increased agricultural production (Component B) resulting from the adoption of improved
technology. Similarly, the benefits from the roads and other infrastructure were assumed to be captured by
the production increases. No rate of return was calculated for the community initiatives sub-component.
For this ICR, an ERR of 14.5 percent is assumed for Component A based on the calculation of the ERR
for the whole group of AIATs financed under the ARM II project (since Component A became one of the
Institutes supported by that project). This rate of return assesses benefits from increased production
resulting from the adoption of new technologies developed by the AIATs. The analysis of road and other
infrastructure sub-components use cost-effectiveness criteria to measure benefits by the analysis of cost per
unit of input. For roads, the use of village labor-intensive technology resulted not only in a pro-poor
benefit from the employment generated but also in a lower cost per km of road in comparison with
contractor road construction. The average cost per km for the project roads was Rp.39 million compared
with Rp.50 million standard cost for Public Works roads in the same period. Similarly, the unit cost of
suspension footbridges was lower for the project than standard costs.

A.3.2    After restructuring, the main project activity became the credit for the economic community
initiatives. The project guidelines required loan applicants to prepare (with the assistance of CDFs)
activity budgets for the investment to be financed and a simple cash-flow analysis showing how the
payments would be met from the incremental income. Field inspections of loan documentation showed that
this was done and loan agreements were accompanied by the required economic and financial analysis.
Only those activities were financed that showed a benefit::cost ratio greater than one and had a positive
incremental cash-flow after debt service were financed. Ex post returns were generally greater than two,
and credit enabled diversification as well as technology change. A final field survey of beneficiary impact
concluded that beneficiary incomes were between 14 and 91 percent higher than those of the control group
which had similar characteristics to the beneficiaries.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994                      4    TASK TEAM LEADER;
                                             AGRICULTURIST (2) ,
                                             ECONOMIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1995                      8    TASK TEAM LEADER ;
                                             AGRICULTURIST (2);
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST;
                                             LAWYER; FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST;
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER

 Supervision

              06/04/1996                4    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER;
                                             AGRICULTURIST;
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
              11/21/1996                2    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             AGRICULTURIST
              10/17/1997                5    TASK MANAGER;                    U               U
                                             AGRICULTURIST;
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST;
                                             AGR/INSTIT. SPECIALIST;
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT
              07/18/1998                5    AGRICULTURAL                     U               U
                                             ECONOMIST;
                                             AGRICULTURIST;
                                             PARTICIPATORY DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST;
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST
              11/12/1998                3    SECTOR LEADER; SR.               U               U
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST;
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              08/27/1999                3    AGRICULTURIST;                   U               U
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIS;
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST



                                              - 26 -

      03/13/2000    3 AGRONOMIST; LIVESTOCK;    S    S
                      ECONOMIST
      03/13/2000    3 AGRONOMIST;               S    S
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST;
                      LIVESTOCK/M&E
                      SPECIALIST
      09/15/2000    3 AGRONOMIST;               S    S
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST;
                      VETERINARIAN
      06/08/2001    2 TTL/MICROFINANCE;         S    S
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST
      11/09/2001    2 TTL - MICROFINANCE        S    S
                      SPECIALIST;
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST
      03/14/2002    5 GENDER/PARTICIPATION      S    S
                      SPECIALIST;
                      MICROFINANCE; FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT;
                      DISBURSEMENT;
                      PROCUREMENT/SOE
      03/14/2002    7 PROJECT MANAGEMENT        S    S
                      SPECIALIST; TTL/
                      ECONOMIST; FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT;
                      OPERATIONS SUPPORT;
                      MICROFINANCE
                      SPECIALIST;
                      IMPLEMENTATION;
                      MICROFINANCE
      06/03/2003    2 TASK TEAM LEADER;         S    S
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST


ICR
      09/26/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER;         S    S
                      AGRICULTURAL
                      ECONOMIST;
                      MICROFINANCE
                      SPECIALIST;
                      PROCUREMENT/SOE




                      - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   84.8                           240.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        27.0                            83.2
  Supervision                                 169.2                           669.8
  ICR                                         21.2 *                           57.6
  Total                                       302.2                         1,051.5
* Estimated
According to Bank's accounting system, consultant weeks were recorded only until Fiscal Year 1999.
Input values include all expenses, including consultant staff-weeks (fees).




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Community driven development




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Final Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, September 2003

 2. Beneficiary Impact Survey Report, D.G. BANGDA, Ministry of Home Affairs, September 2003.

 3. Consultant Services for Procurement Post Audit and Financial Audit Report, Nusa Tenggara
    Agricultural Area Development Project
    Moores Rowland, submitted to the World Bank, Jakarta Office, September 2003

 4. Technical Assistance for the Implementation of NTAADP, Component B & C, Final Report
    D.G. BANGDA, Ministry of Home Affairs, September 2003.

 5. Project Monitoring & Evaluation - Monthly Cluster Report on UPKDs and Credit Performance
    Project Secretariat, BAPPEDA Provinces NTB and NTT, August 2003, and various editions.

 6. Project Monitoring & Evaluation - Yearly Report, Project Secretariat, BAPPEDA Provinces NTB
     and NTT.

 7. Due Diligence and Performance Audit of Village Financial Management Unit (UPKDs) Report,
    Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project, Bina Swadaya, Self-Reliance Development
    Foundation, August 2002.

 8. Yearly Financial Audit Report, State Auditor (Badan Pengawas Keuangan Pembangunan - BPKP),
     various years.

 9. Technical Assistance Final Report, Component A of NTAADP, D.G. Bangda, Ministry of Home
     Affairs, May 2000.

 10. Borrower Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development
     Project, IBRD Loan 3984-IND, D.G. Bangda, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of Indonesia,
     February 20, 2004.




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8: Borrower's Implementation Completion Report - SUMMARY


1.     Background

Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project (NTAADP) continuing for seven fiscal years,
that is, since FY1996/1997 has been one of the manifestations of the Government's attention and concern
in the scheme of achieving equal development distribution and speeding up the economic growth in the
Eastern Area of Indonesia, particularly the East and West Nusa Tenggara Provinces, the poorest
provinces of the Area. Originally, the activity was focused on optimizing the village's potential (resource
base) by using the in-kind distribution pattern (seedlings, livestock) aimed at target groups, through the
technical agencies (Dinas). Such pattern was inefficient and of little benefit to the project participants
that the design was changed, by focusing the activity on the Local Community Initiative (IMS) and
adopting a micro-financial approach.

2.     The Achieved Objective and Result of the Project

The implementation of Local Community Initiatives (IMS) program has provided benefit for the
program's beneficiaries through the approach that gives priority to the basic needs (demand driven).
Several main principles applied to the IMS program comprise (a) Quick Disbursement, (b)
Accountability, and (c) Transparency. While considered satisfactory, the IMS program still has
constraints as embodied in the World Bank's Aide Memoire. In general, the result of the Impact survey
conducted on 338 families in the West Nusa Tenggara and East Nusa Tenggara Provinces shows an
increase in the income of the families participating in the Community Group (Pokmas) IMS-Agriculture
(SUTA), IMS-Livestock, and IMS-Non-farm economic activities (UEP). The IMS Project has also
increased the employment opportunity of the families participating in the Pokmas IMS, and has changed
the village communities' system for making decision on business planning. Meanwhile, institutionally, the
IMS program still faces constraints on technical aspects of business, finance, management, funding and
institutional proposals.

3.     Continuity

To maintain the continuity of the IMS-NTAADP, the Central Government, in this case, the Directorate
General of BANGDA and the Local Government, namely the East Nusa Tenggara and West Nusa
Tenggara Provinces have prepared the funds for the monitoring and evaluation, the continuity of
assistance (facilitator), and the UPKD Audit. In addition, there is still a need to improve the management
of UPKD and credit management through a more intensive and higher quality training, by involving local
formal financial institutions (BRI, BPD, etc.)

4.     The Borrower's Performance

The performance of the borrower was rated "satisfactory". In spite of the financial crisis since 1997,
however, the GOI was able to provide the required counterpart budget as committed in the Loan
Agreement. In improving loan efficiency, the GOI agreed to cancel US$4.9 million.           Several internal
problems are mostly caused by the weak coordination among Government agencies and with the Project
Implementation Units, in terms of: (i) the time-consuming budget documents validation, leading to the
delay funding provision every year; (ii) the function of the coordinating team at the provincial and
kabupaten levels is not quite optimal, particularly in following up and addressing problems; and (iii)


                                                  - 32 -

constant replacement of the project leader that results in the project management continuity's being
interrupted.

5.    The World Bank's Performance

The World Bank as a financial institution that provides loans to the government through IBRD Loan No.
3984-IND is largely responsive for the success of the project that the constructive suggestions and
opinions embodied in the Aide Memoire, about the performance and progress of the project, serves as the
basis for improving the project's performance. The supervision team is very good in supporting and
monitoring project implementation, and ensuring that is consistence with the rules and regulations. The
focus on Local Community Initiatives (IMS) and community-managed microfinance with
consultant/NGOs facilitation is very good, but support for sustainability needs to be intensified.

6.    Lesson Learned

During the NTAADP, many lessons have been learned about the development and implementation of
participatory community empowerment. The most important lesson is the villagers' participation in
planning, managing, and benefiting from the project's assistance to optimize their resources, and give
them the power to apply the rule they have agreed on. Some useful lessons from the NTAADP's
participatory approach to the facilitation of villagers include:

(i)   Involving villagers in the process of planning and implementation from the outset of the project to
      raise awareness that common interest is the most important thing.
(ii)  The community's participation and empowerment is a time-consuming process. Without an
      adequate time investment, the community will become a mere passive and inactive observer in the
      cooperation.
(iii) A process must be developed to identify the core of the problem. A problem will constantly develop
      along with changes. This process should involve participation; develop community's involvement
      and ownership of all decisions.
(iv)  A process must be developed to spell out all the regulations related to the financial management
      and institutional development. This should be distributed in a more simple language to guide
      peoples' responsibilities to plan and implement as well as to organize.




                                                   - 33 -

- 34 -

