Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF]FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2215-GUB
GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED F'IRST ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 10, 1979
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Guinean Peso (GP)
G.P. 1.00              =   US$0.0286
US$1.00                =   GP 35
G.P. 1.0 million            US$28,571
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  Metric System
Metric                         US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)            =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)            2              3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km )              0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =         2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                 =         0.22 Imp. gallons
=        0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)             =         2.205 pounds
1 ton                       =         2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
adt      average daily traffic
AfDB     African Development Bank
AP       Armazens do Povo ("The People's Store")
CCIH     Commissariat of Commerce Industry and Handicrafts
CECP     Commissariat for Economic Coordination and Plan
CPW      Commissariat for Public Works, Construction and Urban Affairs
CTT      Commissariat for Transport and Tourism
EDF      European Development Fund
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
LIA      Guinea-Bissau Airlines
PAIGC    African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
voc      vehicle operating costs



FOR OFFICIAL U 
GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..            .      .......................    1
A. The Land and the Econiomy. . .                                                1
B.   The Transport System  ........ . ..             .. . . ..          .        1
C.    Transport Policy and Planning                                              4
D. Transport Services. . .                                                       5
E.   Role of the Bank Group.........                                             6
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR                    ..                                         7
A. The Network. ..                                                               7
B. Traffic..                                                                     8
C .   Administration  ........ ........ . .......              .......    9
D. Road Planning.. .                                                             9
E. Engineering...........  11
F. Staffing and Training                      .          ..11
G.  Construction and Upgrading                    . . .12
H. Maintenance                          ...12
I.  Equipment.............                                                     13
J. Budgeting and Financing                      . . .13
III. THE PROJECT .15
A.    Project Objectives and Scope                       .     .       .....   15
B.    Project Description                        .     .       .      .....  15
C. Cost Estimate                       . . .22
D. Implementation                        . . .23
E.  Financing and Disbursements                   . . .25
F. Procurement                       . . .26
G. Project Monitoring                      . . .27
This report has been prepared by Messrs. P.M. Cadario (Economist), and
C.J.D. Lane (Engineer) on the basis of an appraisal mission in July 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution andi may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otthrwise be disclosed without World Bank authori_tion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                             Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC APPRAISAL .......................................        27
A. General                 .. ........  27
B.   Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Paved Roads    .......    28
C.   Gravel Roads - South .....      ...........................  30
D.   Gravel Roads - North .....      ...........................  31
E.   Project Beneficiaries .....       ..........................  31
F.   Project Risks ......     .................................   32
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS          ..........................................  33
ANNEXES
I.     Cost Estimate and Financing
II.     Outline Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
III.     Equipment and Staffing Requirements
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP
IBRD 13626R - Guinea-Bissau: First Roads Project



GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. The Transport Sector
A.   The Land and the Economy
2
1.01      Guinea-Bissau, with an area of 36,125 km , is situated on the west
coast of Africa, bordered by Senegal and the Republic of Guinea. In addition
to the mainland, it includes the Bijagos Archipelago and a string of coastal
islands. An important geographic feature of the country is the deep penetra-
tion of seven estuary complexes (Rio Cacheu, Rio Mansoa, Rio Geba, Rio Grande
de Buba, Rio Tombali, Rio Cujimba and Rio Cacine). All of these rivers are
tidal and provide navigable waterways to much of Guinea-Bissau except the
northeast.
1.02      The Government estimates the population at about 900,000, of which
about 100,000 live in or near Bissau, the capital. Per capita incomes for
1977 are estimated at US$160, with tlhe monetized sector accounting for 70% of
GNP. Of the total population, 90% is supported by agriculture. Government
administration provides about 62% of monetary sector employment, which totals
about 24,400 jobs. A small industrial sector produces beer and soft drinks,
jam, wood parquet and clothing. Bauxite reserves in the east (near the
Guinean border) and phosphates in the north (near the Senegalese border) might
prove commercially attractive in the longer term.
1.03      The Government's main priority is the stimulation of agriculture,
the country's principal economic acti.vity and source of most of Guinea-Bissau's
foreign exchange earnings. The war of independence (1963-1974) dislocated the
farm population and destroyed much of the productive infrastructure, especially
the dams in the Catio region which protected the rice-paddies from salt-water
intrusion. Like its neighbors, Guinea-Bissau has suffered from the Sahelian
drought which has affected not only the groundnut, maize and livestock pro-
ducers of the north and interior but also the wet rice cultivators of the
south and the coastal plain. Modest exports of rice, the main staple crop, in
the 1950's have been replaced by massive cereal imports in recent years,
mainly with the continued help of international aid. FAO Food Security
Assistance Scheme studies suggest that while the south could most easily meet
cereal needs in the short-term, only the north offers the crop diversification
potential necessary for long-term food security.
B.   The Transport System (Map IBRD 13626R)
1.04      Guinea-Bissau's internal transport system consists of a road network
dating from colonial times (described in Chapter 2), a system of waterborne
transportation with many small river ports, an international airport and
numerous landing strips, seven of which are paved. The condition of the



- 2 -
transport system and its organizational problems make it a serious bottleneck
to the country's economic development, since communications with the poten-
tially productive agricultural areas are inadequate.
Water Transport
1.05      The coastal shipping fleet, based in Bissau, plays an important
role in moving goods in the country. Its route network covers the important
southern rice-growing area and the ground-nut areas of the east via Babadinca.
The fleet is owned by two state trading companies (para. 1.18) and consists of
78 units:  33 powered cargo vessels, 24 barges, and 21 passenger craft.  Cargo
capacities range from 13 to 150 tons. From the sketchy financial records
available, it appears unlikely that the fleet is economic to operate, since
the age of the vessels, the lack of spare parts and insufficient fleet manage-
ment limit its productivity to less than 20% of its theoretical capacity. The
existing shipping tariffs, which are regulated by the Government, are barely
sufficient to cover wages, fuel and maintenance costs. They are now under
review.
1.06      The port facilities on the inland waterway system are unsatisfactory.
Many wooden piers are in poor condition and the shallow water alongside
does not permit loading or discharging at low tide. The Government is plann-
ing to improve these small ports, and the proposed project supports this effort
(para. 3.11). The General Transport Study (para. 2.13) will also consider
water transport.
1.07      The port of Bissau lies approximately 50 nautical miles east of
Caio Point, where the pilot station and the radio station for international
maritime traffic are located. Pilotage is compulsory through the Canal do
Geba, the approach channel, which has several shallows, some with less than
5 m of water at low tide. Access to Bissau is difficult: the radio-beacon is
out of order and the channel buoys are out of position.
1.08      The principal port facility is a 130 m T-shaped pier (the Trade
Quay), which handles both deep-sea ships and smaller coastal vessels. Con-
siderable siltation is taking place due to tidal action, but as the port
has no dredge, no maintenance dredging is possible. The reinforced concrete
structure is in poor condition with extensive exposure of reinforcement and
actual impact damage remaining unrepaired. There is no system of fendering
of any kind, and the piles supporting the quay are deteriorating as well.
Transit sheds are inconveniently located 500 m away, with covered storage
restricted to imports, while export cargoes are either delivered directly to
the ship or stored in the open. This and the lack of modern equipment and
good port organization pose a major cargo-handling problem. In mid-1979, the
European Development Fund will provide new handling equipment which will
appreciably increase the port's throughput capacity. The port installations
also include a second T-shaped quay, used mainly by the fishing fleet and
Guinemar's passenger boats (para. 1.19), and a 300 m quay, unusable at low
water, which serves the coastal fleet.



- 3 -
1.09      Recent port total throughput at Bissau is shown below:
Port of Bissau-Annual Cargo Throughput
(tons)
1975       1976        1Q77
IMPORTS                           55,713      52,474      51,912
(of which: general cargo          15,665      19,356      22,362)
(          cement                 14,510       4,565       8,796)
(          maize                   6,687          -          ---)
(          rice                      ---      18,921       9,973)
EXPORTS                           20,969      22,137      17,934
(of which: groundnuts              6,664       6,033       5,000)
(          coconut                 6,272       4,539       5,902)
(          forest products         4,454       3,110       1,410)
Throughput                        76,682      74,611      69)846
Source:   Port Authority of Bissau.
Before independence, the port's highest throughput was approximately 130,000
tons, which included imports for the Portuguese army.
1.10      Receipts from port traffic amounted to GP 32.2 million (US$0.92
million) in 1976 and GP 34.9 million (US$1.03 million) in 1977. Detailed
financial records of the port's operation are not available, but expenses
in these years totalled GP 41.8 million and GP 28.2 million respectively.
Import cargo costs at the port are estimated at about GP 146.84 (US$4.32)
per ton of cargo landed, not includin,g the compulsory pilotage fees and the
shipping agency charges. The handling fee per ton of export cargo is esti-
mated at GP 31.84 (US$0.99). The import landing fee is low by comparison to
countries with advanced and mechanized handling equipment and higher labor
rates, but average turnaround at Bissau--about 3 days--is long by interna-
tional standards given the small freight volumes.
1.11      Although the Government has in hand a proposal for a new US$35 mil-
lion, deep water port, the studies do not establish the economic or technical
feasibility of such a large and expensive installation. Guinea-Bissau's
economy is still disrupted after the war of independence; however, there is
little evidence to support the optimistic traffic forecasts made in a recent
study. Hence, the Government has asked the study's consultants to review
their proposals, evaluate improvements to the existing port (including dredg-
ing as an interim step) taking into account comments from the Portuguese Ports
Authority and IDA, and identify a smaller project.



-4-
Airports and Civil Aviation
1.12      Bissalanca Airport, 12 km from Bissau, has a 2800 m runway, two
adequate terminals for domestic and international flights, and two control
towers, one recently constructed. There are regular services to Lisbon,
Moscow, Algiers, and Dakar. With about 30 international aircraft movements
per month (1200 passengers and about 25 t of air cargo), there appear to be no
capacity problems, but the airport would need a runway extension, improved
lighting and an instrument landing system to meet ICAO Class 1 standards. In
1978, the Government received Kuwait Fund financing for these improvements.
There are over 60 landing strips in the country, built by the former military
administration, of which seven are paved. State-owned Lineas Aereas da
Guine-Bissau (LIA) operates 3 DC-3's, 3 Dorniers, and 3 Cessna V206's for
internal flights. An HS-748 has recently been purchased (50% by commercial
loan, 50% by British aid) for international use.
C.   Transport Policy and Planning
1.13      Government transport policy is set out in a five-point general
statement of objectives approved by the November 1977 Third Congress of the
ruling African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC):
"a)   to give the sector the infrastructure necessary for the
development process and to integrate the economies of
the two countries;
b)   to increase State control over the means of transport;
c)   to assure international maritime links between Guinea-
Bissau and Cape Verde by a jointly-owned independent
fleet;
d)   to give the countries a road, coastal shipping and
aviation sector which permits and promotes efficiency;
e)   to rationalize the vehicle fleet and guarantee its main-
tenance and repair."
1.14      The Commissariat for Economic Coordination and Plan (CECP) oversees
the economy and the government sector, in theory vetting all development
projects, especially those involving foreign aid. A small planning team
has begun to work on a development plan expected to be presented to the 1980
PAIGC Congress for approval. Preliminary indications are that the plan will
adopt a regional approach, emphasizing rural development. Considerable effort
will be needed in the next stage - translating the plan into feasible and
justified projects.



1.15      Since CECP does not enjoy a "super-ministry" status, in practice
the three executing ministries in the transport sector exercise considerable
independence in sector planning and project execution. The Commissariat
for Public Works, Construction and Urban Affairs (CPW) is responsible for
road construction and maintenance. It also acts as contact ministry for the
recently initiated General Transport Study, financed by the African Develop-
ment Fund, which is expected to be completed in late 1979 by consultants
Lavalin (Canada). The Commissariat for Transport and Tourism (CTT) oversees
ports, coastal shipping, aviation and road transport, both directly and
through reporting agencies such as LIA, the Bissau Port Authority and Silo
Diata, the state bus company, (para. 1.19). It also comments on all proposed
road investments. The Commissariat for Commerce, Industry and Handicrafts
(CCIH) also is involved, through its control over Armazens do Povo ("The
People's Store", AP) and Socomi, the state trading companies.  These two firms
run virtually all shipping and trucking in Guinea-Bissau, integrated into
their commercial activities. There is little coordination between these
ministries at the working level, with interministerial contact occurring only
at the highest decision-making level, the Council of Commissars, which is the
executive body of the PAIGC.
1.16      Planners' attention has been directed to the stimulation of the
foreign-exchange-saving and-earning sectors (agriculture), with transport
planning addressed through the consultants' study. Transport sector institu-
tions are undeveloped, and establishing the capacity to plan and execute road
rehabilitation and maintenance in this first IDA project is an important
step.
1.17      New transport investments depend on foreign assistance:  they
include the new road from Bissau to the airport (the Netherlands), the Jugudul
Bambadinca road (AfDB), new ferries, port equipment, and self-propelled barges
(European Development Fund (EDF)), repair of small ships (Federal Republic of
Germany) and passenger boats (Sweden). The EDF has also financed detailed
engineering for construction of the Bambadinca-Xitole-Quebo road, which they
propose to finance, possibly with the Saudi Fund.
D.   Transport Services
1.18      "For hire" transport is dominated by AP and Socomi (para. 1.15)
(coastal shipping and trucking) and by the army, whose trucks distribute
petroleum products and help collect groundnuts during the harvest. The
financial records of the trading companies do not permit a detailed analysis
of transport costs or of the efficiency of transport operations. A consultant
estimated 1976 internal freight movement at 80,000 tons for the entire
country, roughly two-thirds from the capital to the interior. Because of
the poor condition of the roads, the limited truck fleet, and the lack of
reliable connections to the southern regions (para. 2.03), water transport
accounts for about 75% of this traffic. Although Government policy discour-
ages private participation in road transport, a small number of private
truckers operate old 4-6 t trucks. They are often hired by AP and Socomi



- 6 -
during peak seasons (about four months each year), at tariffs averaging about
G.P. 1500 per day (US$43). In the off-season, competition among the truckers
almost halves these rates. Guinean private truck owners are subject to fairly
high license fees, and also have great difficulty getting spare parts; hence,
their number is small. Although a few Senegalese and Gambian traders operate
in the north, exchanging simple consumer goods for groundnuts and other farm
products, their role in road transport is minor.
1.19      Domestic passenger transport is provided to all parts of the country.
In addition to regular LIA flights to Cufar, the south is served by Guinemar,
a state-owned company, which operates coastal passenger services from Bissau
to Buba and Bolama using five new Finnish-built vessels and several small,
older boats. Silo Diata, the state road transport company, operates modern,
Swedish-built buses in Bissau and from Bissau to the interior. These bus ser-
vices are fairly reliable in the dry season and are well patronized. Private
cars and small vans compete near the capital, but they do not often venture
into more isolated areas where road conditions are poor.
E. Role of the Bank Group
1.20      The proposed project is IDA's first in Guinea-Bissau, which joined
the Bank Group in March 1977. The project was identified by IDA staff in
December 1977 and prepared by an IDA pre-appraisal mission and the Govern-
ment in March 1978. The preappraisal mission included three IDA-financed
consultants (for highway engineering, mechanical equipment, and coastal
shipping) who worked with IDA staff and CPW to define the project. The
project was appraised in July 1978.
1.21      IDA is primarily supporting the rural sector:  road rehabilitation
is vital for agricultural development, providing the link between major
producing areas and Bissau, the capital. The proposed project is the first
step in a continuous road rehabilitation and maintenance effort needed in
Guinea-Bissau. Existing CPW equipment and the IDA-financed fleet should be
adequate to expand highway maintenance over the entire country. Financial
problems may require continued donor support in the future, and the three
years of technical assistance included in the proposed project will only
partially meet the sector's manpower requirements. IDA and the Government
will review progress on training as the project is being executed, in light of
the experience acquired by CPW staff, the physical output of the brigades, and
other training needs which may become evident as higher level staff return
from professional training abroad.
1.22      IDA financed the mission of a coastal shipping expert to review the
sub-sector and assess its short- and medium-term role. He concluded that
properly organized water transport offered good possibilities for the shipment
of bulk commodities to many parts of the country. His report is being trans-
lated and will be sent to the Government for review.



- 7 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A.   The Network
2.01      The network comprises 3,065 km of roads, of which 520 km or 17% are
paved.  The network density, 0.084 km/km , is similar to that of other coun-
tries in Western Africa. Taken with the inland and coastal waterways, its
extent is largely adequate, but its poor condition limits its effective role
in Guinea-Bissau's economy.
2.02      There is no official functional or administrative classification
of roads in Guinea-Bissau. For purposes of this report, the rural road
network has been divided into trunk roads, regional roads and feeder roads
as follows:
(i)  trunk roads are roads linking regional centers to the
capital, and/or providing main links to neighboring countries;
(ii)  regional roads are roads linking regional centers together
and with the trunk road net:work;
(iii)  feeder roads are the remainder of the network, providing
access to those villages and agricultural areas not
connected to the main roads and serving mostly local
transport needs.
Thus defined, the network is divided as follows:
Paved         Gravel/Earth         Total
Trunk Roads      425             405                 830
Regional Roads   95              920               1,015
Feeder Roads       -           1,220               1,220
Total      520            2,545              3,065
2.03      The high percentage of paved roads in the network is a consequence
of the armed struggle preceding independence in 1975. Most paving was done
in 1970-72 by the Portuguese provincial administration and army as a deterrent
against planting land mines. Whereas the layout of the network as a whole
reflects peacetime needs adequately, t'he paving of individual sections was
done from purely military considerations. Parts of the east-west and north-
south corridors remain as earth roads,, some less important sections in the
center and south are paved, and some populated areas (especially in the south)
have no passable roads at all. Coastal shipping, now the main transport mode
in the south on account of the difficult road conditions, is well-adapted to



- 8 -
the shipment of bulk commodities such as rice, the main crop. But water
transport has proven to be ill-suited to agricultural extension and the dis-
tribution of farm inputs, the provision of health and social service, and
general administration in the Buba and Tombali regions. Transport, both in-
ternally and to the capital, is difficult. Even so, at least 40% of the rice
now commercialized in the south moves by road to river trans-shipment points.
2.04      The paved roads have a 6 m-wide pavement with 0.5 m to 1.0 m
shoulders. The asphalt surfacing is usually single, but occasionally double
surface treatment, and there are sections which have only received a sand
seal surface on the laterite base.
2.05      The earth and gravel roads are not built to uniform standards.
Roadway width varies from single-lane, 3 m width to double-lane, 7 m forma-
tion width. Drainage is deficient nearly everywhere, with culverts of in-
sufficient size or in disrepair, and turnout drains lacking.
B.   Traffic
2.06      Traffic volumes are low, even on trunk roads.  The Government un-
dertook representative traffic counts for the first time in May 1978. The
most trafficked road, between Nhacra and Safim, carries 250 vpd. Traffic on
the main east-west axis (Bissau-Bafata-Guinea border) varies from about 110
between Mansaba and Bafata to 44 between Gaba and Pitche. The main north-
south road (Bafata-Bambadinca-Xitole-Quebo to Cacine and Catio) carries very
little traffic (estimated at 25 vpd). Regional roads in the north appear to
carry 20-40 vpd, in the south 20-25 vpd.
2.07      There are no valid statistics on the size of the vehicle fleet.
In 1971 it was estimated at about 2,000 cars and 1,000 trucks and buses.
Vehicle imports since then are shown below:
---------- Vehicle Imports ------------
Year         Cars       Trucks       Buses        Total
1972         na          na          na            178
1973         na          na          na            277
1974        153          14           0            167
1975        434          41           0            475
1976        322         151          21            494
1977        260          61           3            324
1978 (I-VI)  na          na          na            225
Source: Statistical Bulletin; Viacao et Automobilismo.
The present fleet is estimated at some 3,000 vehicles. Since independence,
the fleet has grown, recently with an increase in the number of passenger
cars, and the public sector has accounted for 70% of new registrations, both
of cars and of trucks. The two state commercial enterprises, Socomi and
Armazens do Povo, own altogether 119 trucks. Of these, 42% have 9 t or more



- 9 -
load capacity. The Government haS recently signed an agreement with a French
company to construct a plant to assemble up to 500 small utility vehicles per
year.
2.08      The Government has established a 10-t axle load limit for all
highways in the country, the same as in neighboring Senegal, and is trying to
limit the gross weight of foreign vehicles entering the country to 15 t (out
of consideration for the pavement and for old culverts and bridges). The
limitation is difficult to enforce, and CTT is planning to establish a special
road service to police axle load restrictions and road safety rules. The
proposed project would assist this effort (para. 3.19).
C.   Administration (Chart IBRD 19377)
2.09      The Roads Section in the Commissariat for Public Works, Construction
-and Urban Affairs is responsible for all roads, urban and rural, in the country.
The administration is centered in Bissau, mobile work brigades being directed
and administered from headquarters, with small and ill-equipped sub-depots at
Bula, Gabu, San Domingo and Farim.
2.10      Administrative procedures are those established by the Portuguese
administration. They are slow and cumbersome, and supplies of fuel and spare
parts to the field teams are further delayed by poor communications. Decision
making, however, is centralized and quick, both within CPW and between CPW and
other ministries. The project will have its own administrative staff and pro-
cedures and will also have the advantage of radio communication with the bri-
gades enabling rapid ordering of spare parts.
2.11      The army occasionally assists the CPW in road works.  In 1977 a
joint work brigade attempted to improve the Mansaba-Bafata road using labor-
intensive methods. Owing to poor management, inadequate compaction and lack
of maintenance, the quality of the road is now poor. A number of agricultural
development projects are being carried out in the country, but none contain
road components. Thus, the only entity in the country concerned with roads is
the CPW.
D.   Road Planning
2.12      There is at present no long-term highway planning.  All projects
selected to date have been chosen t:o fill obvious gaps in the transport
network. Feasibility studies have not been carried out, and there is no
investment forecast based on economic criteria.
2.13      The Portuguese administration in 1972 established a development plan
for the country's road network, largely based on military requirements. The
plan was only executed in part and no longer remains a valid basis for
planning. However, CPW has recently selected consultants Lavalin (Canada)
to carry out a country-wide General Transport Study and to produce a trans-
portation master plan. The study, financed by the African Development Fund,
is expected to be completed by 1979. It may form the basis for a transport
investment program in the country's first development plan. The Government



COMMISSARIAT OF STATE FOR PUBLIC WORKS, CONSTRUCTION AND YRBAN AFFAIRS
- z ORGANIZATION CHART
Commissar (Minister)
Directorate of                 Directorate of            Directorate of Workshops                Direcntoratao f              Directorate of
Urban Affairs                Public buildings              & Mobile Equipment                  Adrnnistration ce=
t 1 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.lboratory 
Main Workshop
Waterhouse                     Bridges Section             Designi Section            Roads Section
4 Sub Depots         *       2 F    Mainte                                               J  4 Asphalt Matintenance
-  1        1                                                       1~~~~am     Fieldi Teams
6 Mobile Repair        I                                                             I        5 Laterite M iintenaiice
Teants                                                                             3          F Fieltd Teamts
FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Workshop
IServices        PaedRod            Laterite         Lalerite
1Bissau1          Brigade           Brigade          Beiyadle
Bafata                            So  l             North
World Bank -- 19377



- 11 -
has agreed to keep IDA informed of the progress of the study and to discuss
with IDA its conclusions and recommendations.  Planning of the development of
the rural economy in key agricultural areas should be undertaken to determine
the basis for a suitable long-term transport investment program.
E.   Engineering
2.14      There are at present no official design standards for roads but the
subject is being addressed in the Transport Study (para. 2.13). The asphalted
part of the network has been built with 6 m-wide pavements and 0.5 m-1.0 m
shoulders. The part of the Buba-Catio road presently being upgraded by CPW
features a 9.0 m-wide formation withl a compacted laterite pavement; minor
upgrading works underway in other parts of the country use varying standards.
2.15      The Road Section of CPW has a design division which is mainly
concerned with surveying and other topographic work. It has not done any
road design work since independence, due to the lack of qualified engineers.
All road design work has been carried out by foreign consultants and financed
by foreign aid. The presently avai:Lable engineering covers the Bambadinca-
Xitole-Quebo road (76 km) and the Jugudul-Bambadinca link (38 Km).  There are
no local consultants capable of undertaking road design.
2.16f     It appears important, before the Government embarks upon a major
denor-financed construction program, and while road expenditures are still at
their present low level, (para. 2.29) to introduce economic considerations
into road design. While the master plan study should assist the Government
in this, it still seems that the CPW is aiming at excessive, paved standards
on main links where projected traffic volumes are unlikely to justify them.
Therefore, consultants under the project will adopt uniform design standards
in agreement with the Government andl its general transport study consultants,
related to expected traffic volumes.
2.17      The CPW has a Materials Laboratory in its headquarters in Bissau.
It is adequately staffed and equippeWd, and has assisted the Roads Section on
recent minor projects involving marshland crossings. It would be available
for the proposed project and capable of handling the required workload.
F.   Staffing and Training
2.18      All staff engaged in road works are Guinean.  There is only one
graduate engineer, the head of the Section, who received his training in the
German Democratic Republic, graduating in 1975. The Road Section receives
some expatriate technical assistance: two mechanics from East Germany are
assisting the CPW mechanical workshop, and a French consultant now oversees
workshop activities.
2.19      In headquarters, the staff comprises 21 design and topographic
staff, of which 5 are qualified draftsmen and only one a surveyor. The
bridge division is staffed with only one administrator and an assistant.
The laboratory is adequately staffed, with a senior soil technician and four
assistants.



- 12 -
2.20      Of a total CPW workforce of 3000, the total roads field staff
comprises about 400, of which 126 are classified as artisans, operators and
field mechanics. The level and experience of field staff, most importantly of
brigade foremen, varies widely, and work quality and output rates are conse-
quently far from uniform.
2.21      There is no formal training program for roads staff.  Such training
as is going on is strictly on-the-job. As the supervision of field work
exercised from headquarters is very limited, bad work practices continue
unchecked.  This is particularly the case for equipment operation, where
breakdowns occur due to mishandling. The overall organization of work also
varies widely from brigade to brigade. The project will address these defi-
ciencies by on-the-job training programs for mechanics, brigade foremen, and
equipment operators, complemented by classroom instruction (paras. 3.22-3.23 ).
G.   Construction and Upgrading
2.22      New construction undertaken since independence is limited to a
14-km paved road on the island of Bubaque, to support tourism development, and
the 12 km dual carriageway link to the airport, which is under construction.
There are no domestic contractors capable of road works, and only one small
foreign contractor is established in the country. While the Government is
not opposed to employing contractors for road works, encouraging the develop-
ment of a domestic contracting industry is not a priority. It would appear
that, at least in the foreseeable future, minor scattered construction,
upgrading and resealing works will be done by force account. In view of the
country's financial situation, major road works will have to be financed from
foreign aid under the contracting rules applied by the respective financing
agencies. In 1979, tenders are expected to be invited for construction of two
roads, Bambadinca-Xitole (36 km), financed by the European Development Fund
and Jugudul-Bambadinca, (38 km) financed by the African Development Fund.
2.23      The CPW has undertaken a limited effort of simple reconstruction
and upgrading of key sections of the network. This includes the border road
with Senegal, the last 20 km to the border of Guinea from Pitche, and the
link Buba-Batambali-Empada. These works mainly include reconstruction of the
formation and regravelling, together with some rectification of drainage.
It is estimated that on average, the upgrading/reconstruction units now
complete about 30 km per working season of 8 months, less than 200 m per
working day.
H.   Maintenance
2.24      About half of the present CPW maintenance efforts are concentrated
on the paved network. Surface damage is widespread, but the base has nearly
everywhere stood up well, maintaining a good cross section. The CPW efforts
have, quite justifiably, been directed towards surface patching to prevent
water from penetrating into the base and causing structural damage which would
later prove much more expensive to repair than the surface itself. The CPW
has been able to arrest such damage, but the quality of maintenance work is
not satisfactory, and the effort requires frequent repetition in order to



- 13 -
provide effective protection for the base. The main reasons for this are
the use of primitive equipment and work methods. The project will provide
equipment, materials and training for a program of mechanized surface treatment.
2.25      Maintenance of the grave:L and earth road network is sporadic.  The
CPW brigades being mainly occupied with rehabilitation works, there is little
effort being made to provide proper routine and periodic maintenance. As a
result, most of the important links are in a bad condition and many feeder
roads have deteriorated to tracks which are often impassable to motor vehicles
in the rainy season.
2.26      Such routine maintenance works as are carried out consist of repair
work on culverts and bridges and occasional grading. There is no organized
routine maintenance; cleaning of ditches and maintenance of verges is occa-
sionally carried out by the district authorities with local volunteer labor.
This practice is not widespread, however, due to its association with forced
labor under the colonial administration, and routine cleaning is quite defi-
cient. Under the project, routine maintenance will be organized by CPW and
gradually introduced on the project roads.
I.   Equipment
2.27      CPW presently has a fleet. of heavy construction equipment numbering
about 50 items. Their ages vary from 1-2 years up to 18 years. Of these
units, 18 are immobilized due to lack of spare parts, insufficient mechanical
skill to rehabilitate them, or because they are too old to make reconditioning
worthwhile. The project will rehabilitate nine units which have a high pri-
ority, in a program combined with mechanics' training (para. 3.22).
2.28      CPW's main workshop is at headquarters in  Bissau.  It is of ade-
quate size (9,000 m2, of which 3,500 m2 are covered) and is, on the whole,
adequately equipped with major equipment. Poor and inadequate facilities
exist at other locations. The project will supplement the equipment and
tools of the main workshop, and construct and equip adequate field repair
workshops in Buba and Bafata (para. 3.16).
J.   Budgeting and Financing
2.29      Since independence, there has been no complete accounting of road
expenditures. Certain materials, notably asphalt, were left by the Portuguese
in large quantities, and only small additional purchases have been required.
Of the total 1977 CPW expenditure of GP 68.5 million (US$2.0 million), it is
estimated that about GP 27 million (US$800,000) represents maintenance expen-
ditures on roads and bridges. This is just over 2% of the Government's
current budgeted expenditures of GP 1.25 billion (US$36.8 million). Of the GP
27 million, an estimated GP 16.6 million (US$475,000) was spent on materials,
supplies, and spare parts.



- 14 -
2.30      While the Government has financed recurrent expenditures, most
purchases of new equipment and related spare parts have been financed by
Swedish aid, estimated at about GP 24 million (US$0.7 million) annually in
1976 and 1977. The Ministry of Finance also regularly supplies foreign
exchange for consumable spare parts (filters, etc.), amounting to about
US$13,000 equivalent in 1977.
2.31      Motor fuel is imported by DICOL, a state enterprise, with 30%
participation of Petrogal, a Portuguese petroleum company. In June 1978,
the Government increased the pump price per litre of diesel, normal, and
super gasoline to GP 6 (US$0.17), GP 12.50 (US$0.36), and GP 16 (US$0.46),
respectively. Taxes are virtually remitted on diesel, which has an import
price cif Bissau of GP 5.93 (US$0.17) per litre, while direct and indirect
taxes on gasoline are substantial: GP 5.23 (US$0.15) and GP 5.75 (US$0.16)
on each litre of regular and super, respectively. On the basis of fragmentary
fuel consumption statistics, the annual theoretical yield from motor fuel
taxes is approximately US$900,000. In addition, ad valorem import duties
are 33% on automobiles, and 26% on trucks. The Government, foreign missions,
and all donor-financed projects are exempt from import taxes, and private
citizens are not allowed the foreign exchange to import cars. Since the
Government operates possibly 60% of the automobiles (para. 2.07) and state
enterprises, most of the trucks, the actual public revenues accruing from road
users are small. Thus, given the present ownership pattern of the vehicle
fleet and the objective to increase the State's control, there is little
reason for or possibility of increasing road user taxes in the short term.
2.32      An IDA economic mission in early FY80 will review the country's
overall public finance situation, which is now heavily in deficit. The
Government accepts the principle of according priority to maintenance outlays
in recurrent expenditures. At negotiations, the Government indicated its
intention to finance road maintenance operations after the end of the project.
During the planned discussions of Government budget and revenue, means to
ensure adequate and timely funding once the project is completed will be
examined (para. 3.13).



-- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Scope
3.01      The project, IDA's first in Guinea-Bissau, is conceived as a first
step in the development of the country's road sector institutions and will
meet certain urgent needs. It will: (i) protect the existing paved road
network from further deterioration; (ii) provide an adequate link to the
southern part of the country, presently suffering from very poor communica-
tions; (iii) provide basic road infrastructure to support on-going agricul-
tural investment in the north; and (iv) introduce regular routine and periodic
maintenance operations later to be adopted on the entire road network of the
country. The project consists of a three-year road rehabilitation and main-
tenance program, with technical assistance for the training of local staff.
3.02      To this end, the project will provide:
(i)  a rehabilitation and maintenance brigade for the existing
paved roads;
(ii) two road rehabilitation and maintenance brigades for gravel
and earth roads in the Buba/Tombali (south) and Gabu/Bafata
(north) regions, and improved trans-shipment facilities in
the south at Enxude, Bedanda and Cacine;
(iii) workshop, administrative and communications facilities for
the brigades, by constructing and equipping of regional work-
shops in Buba and Bafata, improvements to the headquarters
workshops in Bissau, provision of radio communications equip-
ment, and a limited program of equipment rehabilitation;
(iv) a portable axle-weighing device and a light vehicle to carry
it, to start a national program of axle-load control; and
(v)  technical assistance to CPW in execution of the project,
and for training of CPW staff.
B.   Project Description
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Maintenance
3.03      Three field brigades will be established and operated under the
project for a period of approximately three years. A total of 226 km of
asphalt roads will be patched and re-sealed, and 388 km of gravel roads will
be improved.  The brigades will also undertake routine maintenance of the
rehabilitated roads until the end of the project period.  The outline work
programme for the brigades is given below.



- 16 -
Outline Work Programme
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4-   Total
km      km       km       km        km
Rehabilitation and Improvement
(i)  Asphalt roads (one brigade)    50           88       88      --        226
(ii)  Gravel roads  - South             30        80       90       30       230
- North           --        68       90       --        158
Maintenance
(i)  Asphalt roads                     --        50      138
(ii)  Gravel roads                      50       160      306
3.04      The present and expected low traffic volumes call for design standards
resulting in minimum cost improvements compatible with efficient maintenance.
The following three road standards are proposed for roads to be improved or
rehabilitated under the project:
Class 1         Class 2         Class 3
Roadway width (m)                  6.0             6.0               4.5
Shoulder width (m)                 1.5             1.0              1.0
Surface (type)                  Bitumen           Gravel        Gravel/earth
Design speed (km/h)                80              60               40
Maximum grade (%)                   6               8               12
Class 1 refers to the existing bituminous paved network where the project
will undertake surface repairs and, where required, rehabilitation of the base
course. Class 2 contains roads with more than 25 adt and in practice refers
to trunk and regional roads only. Class 3 refers to some regional and all
feeder roads. Corresponding equipment and staffing requirements are listed
in Annex 3.
1/   The project timing assumes that the gravel road rehabilitation in the
south starts in February 1980 and achieves a 30 km output in its first
season of operations. To complete the agreed 230 km program (para.
3.09), 30 km will remain to be completed in a fourth season (late 1982),
although it may be possible to increase output in years 2 and 3 to
complete the works by June 1982.



- 17 -
Average work volumes
Class 2         Class 3
Formation (m /km)                              2,500               400
Surfacing km /km)                                900               420
Culverts, (ave5age 60 cm diameter, m/km)          12                10
Embankments 2(m /km average)                   1,300             1,000
Clearing (m /km)                               6,000             4,000
Tree felling (pc/km)                              35                35
Turn out drainage (km/km)                        0.3               0.3
3.05      Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Asphalt Roads.  Rehabilitation of
the paved network requires rapid action if severe damage to the base course
is to be avoided. The project will finance the purchase of equipment for one
surface treatment and maintenance brigade. This brigade will apply a single-
surface treatment to the more heavily trafficked sections (about 122 km),
and a sand-seal where traffic is lower. The most urgent work to be done is
the rehabilitation of the main trunk road Bissau-Safim-Mansoa-Mansaba-Farim
(103 km) and Safim-Sao Vicente (41 km).  These roads require resurfacing and,
on about 25 km, removal of the surface and reconstruction of the base before
resealing can be applied.
3.06      Of the roads carrying less traffic, the east-west road Binar-Bula-
Canchungo-Cacheu would be adequately served by sand sealing. For the
Bambadinca-Bafata-Pitche and the Mansoa-Bissora roads, which will not require
resealing, routine patching should suffice.
3.07      The roads to be rehabilitated are as follows:
:Length   Work Types 1/
Road                        (km)   ST    SS    RB
Bissau Airport-Safim          5     5    --    --
Safim-Sao Vicente            41    41    --      3
Safim-Farim                  98    76    22    20
Binar-Bula                   12    --    12    --
Bula-Canchungo               38    --    38      2
Canchungo-Cacheu             32    --    32    --
226   122   104    25
1/  ST:  Surface Treatment   SS:  Sand Seal
RB: Base Repairs
3.08      It is proposed to use MC 3000 cutback asphalt or its equivalent
(imported in drums) for the resealing program.  Bitumen emulsion will also
be provided under the project so that training may be given in the use of
this important wet-weather patching material. The only source of aggregate



- 18 -
in the country at present is laterite nodules won by screening and washing
from selected laterite borrow pits which are well distributed. It is doubtful
whether this material would pass normal acceptance criteria, but a visual
examination of existing roads shows that the aggregate performs adequately.
As traffic weights and volumes grow, the laterite aggregate will no longer be
satisfactory, and under a possible future project, the Association may con-
sider the supply of quarrying equipment to exploit a basalt deposit in the
east of the country.
3.09      Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads.  Due to the ravages of the war,
lack of maintenance, vegetation growth and tropical rainfall, much of the
otherwise adequate secondary road network has deteriorated to the point that
recuperation is no longer possible within a maintenance effort alone, and
rehabilitation is required. The project will execute a program of rehabilita-
tion, substantially on existing alignments, starting in early 1980 in the
Buba/Tombali region (230 km) and in October 1980 in the Bafata/Gabu region
(158 km). However, establishment of the second gravel brigade will be con-
tingent upon adequate performance of the first (para. 3.30). The proposed
program comprises (Map IBRD 13626R):
Length (km)        Class
Buba/Tombali Regions (South)
('iebo-Cacine-Campeane                    70               2
Tite-Fulacunda-Buba                       38               2
Batambali-Catio                           25               2
133
Fulacunda-Garsene                         14               3
Fulacunda-Gangaura                        18               3
Uama Beafada-Uama Porto                    4               3
Jaba-Jabada                               18               3
Nova Sintra-Sao Joao                      15               3
Gantua-Balanta-Chigue                     13               3
Cuileje-Rio Languere                      15               3
97
Total                         230
Length (km)       Class
Bafata/Gabu Regions (North)
Comuda - Contuboel                        25               2
Contuboel - Cambaju                       38               2
63
Gabu - Pirada                             30               3
Gabu - Sonaco                             33               3
Contuboel - Sare Bacar                    20               3
Sonaco - Jabicunda                        12               3
95
Total                            158



- 19 -
3.10      The majority of the works proposed will consist of reestablishing
the formation. at a height of 0.30 m above the surrounding terrain, mainly
by side-borrowing. Occasionally, visibility requirements dictate modest
earth works of up to 2 m cut and sma:Ll causeways of up to 1.5 m for valley
crossings. Side and turn-out drains will be reestablished. Although most
cross-drainage locations already contain a culvert, they are often of in-
adequate opening or broken. The project provides for the supply and placing
of the equivalent of one 0.6 m diameter opening per km. The existing align-
ments are mainly located on ridges or follow watersheds, but where a major
waterway is crossed, the existing structures will be satisfactory. Good
quality laterite is available always within a 5 km haul, usually closer, and
material adequate for class 3 roads is generally available within 1 km.
3.11      Gravel Roads in the South.  The main spine roads of the Buba-Tombali
region are the Enxude-Tite-Buba/Batarabala-Catio road (63 km) and the Quebo-
Cacine-Campeane road (70 km). Buba and Quebo are connected by an existing
asphalt road which is planned to be extended to Bambadinca by a paved road to
be financed by the EDF and Saudi Arabia. These roads will be rehabilitated to
Class 2 standards (para. 3.04). The remainder of the roads in the program
comprise the most important feeder roads in the region and will be rehabili-
tated to Class 3 standards. Storage problems and the dilapidated condition
of existing river piers complicate the transfer of bulk goods from boats to
trucks and vice-versa. To improve the current manual loading of rice at these
r- ever ports, the project will assist the Government's effort to improve storage
and handling by replacing the existing dilapidated piers by more practical
trans-shipment facilities at Enxude, Cacine, and Bedanda (near Catio). By
adapting to the tidal variation, these new installations would lengthen
loading and unloading periods, which are now interrupted at low tide.
3.12      Gravel Roads in the North.  The Bafata and Gabu regions require an
improved regional and feeder road network in order to: (i) ensure north-south
all-weather access to the main east-west highway corridor which leads to
Bissau; and (ii) provide reliable transport infrastructure in support of the
various agricultural projects being planned or implemented in the regions. 1/
The Comuda-Contuboel and Sonaco-Jabicunda roads have recently been upgraded in
parts to 6 m wide roadway. However, both drainage and surface material remain
deficient, and sections of the roads will be difficult to pass in the rainy
season. These roads provide access to the major groundnut producing areas
and to successful, pilot, irrigated rice producing areas around Contuboel and
Sonaco.
Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of the improved and rehabilitated roads is an integral
part of the project. Normal routine maintenance will begin on each road
section as soon as the capital works on it are completed.  This will include
spot patching of bituminous surfaces, grading of gravel surfaces, cleaning of
ditches and drainage structures, cutting of grass on verges and maintenance of
shoulder profiles. The project will finance hand tools and supervision for
1/   By USAID, EDF and FAC.



- 20 -
these operations which will be organized by CPW and carried out by villagers
(para 3.32). Periodic maintenance, such as resealing and regravelling, will
not be required during the project period, but a program for subsequent
routine and periodic maintenance on the project roads will be drawn up under
the project. During negotiations, the principles of the program were dis-
cussed and agreed with the Government and the Government indicated its inten-
tion to finance adequately continued highway maintenance after the project's
completion (para 2.32).
Mobile Equipment and Repair Facilities
3.14      The project will finance equipment for the three project brigades -
one asphalt brigade and two gravelling/earthworks brigades. The equipment
to be purchased for the brigades is listed in Annex 3. The equipment to be
rehabilitated includes one bull-dozer, one grader, one roller, and one fuel
bowser, which will be used in the asphalt brigade; five more units will be
returned to the existing field teams.
3.15      The field equipment will be supported by workshop and field servicing
facilities to make the brigades self-sufficient in terms of routine equipment
maintenance, transport of materials and spares, and communications. This
entails the purchase, under the project, of spare parts, transport for
materials, fuel and equipment, laboratory equipment and two-way radios.
3.16      Present facilities for maintaining and servicing equipment outside
Bissau consist of a yard in Bafata and a small workshop in Buba. The existing
Buba installation is quite insufficient, and the location of the Bafata yard
close to a groundnut decortication plant makes it unsuitable for a depot due
to dust problems. The CPW has acquired a site in Bafata for building a new
workshop.
3.17      Under the project, new regional workshops will be constructed at
Bafata (on the new CPW site) and at Buba. The workshops will be equipped to
undertake routine servicing and emergency repairs. More complicated servicing
and major repairs will be done in Bissau. In most cases exchange components
will be used, thus minimizing equipment downtime. The workshops will contain
a modest spare parts store, and an office for the brigade mechanic and foreman.
3.18      The main workshop in Bissau will serve the asphalt brigade, and
function as central workshop for the other two brigades. It requires no
further buildings, but some additional tools will be provided. The fixed
installations for the Southern and Northern brigades and the supporting
equipment for all three brigades are given in Annex 3.
3.19      The General Transport Study (para. 2.13) will review limits for
vehicle dimensions and axle loads. During Credit negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it would enact by January 1, 1981,
adequate regulations in this respect. The project will finance the purchase
of a portable weigh-bridge to assist in enforcing these regulations.



- 21 -
Technical Assistance
3.20      The project will provide technical assistance at all levels in
project planning and implementation. A total of 216 months of expatriate
technical assistance is envisaged to cover both the preparation and implemen-
tation periods, with a contingency of a further 36 man-months in 1981-82,
should further technical assistance be required. The assistance would include
the services of a project manager/highway engineer, an administrator, two
brigade foremen and three mechanics (one, a training specialist) with other
specialists for short appointments. Draft terms of reference for these ser-
vices are given in Annex 2. The Government invited proposals from a short
list of consultants during the appraisal mission and negotiated a contract
satisfactory to IDA with consultants Louis Berger International (USA) in
October 1978. Consulting services will run from November 1978 to June 1982.
Independent auditors will be employed to audit the project's Revolving Fund.
3.21      The technical assistance will aid the Government in drawing up
tender documents for items to be purchased, and in reorganizing the repair
workshop in Bissau. After arrival of the field equipment, the technical
assistance team would be responsible for the initial year of project execution
in view of the scarcity of qualified and experienced personnel. CPW has
already named counterparts satisfactory to IDA for each member of the tech-
nical assistance team. As the counterparts gain experience, they will grad-
ually assume operational responsibilities.
Training
3.22      The training component will be done in two parts.  On-the-job train-
ing will be given to the staff of the brigades by the brigade chiefs, the
mechanics, and the operator instructor. It will be built around operational
requirements. The brigades will be staffed by public works employees, most
of whom will have some previous experience but probably a very low level of
formal education. The consultants will be required (during the first four
months of the project) to draw up a realistic training program for each trade
group. They should outline the operations and techniques with which each
trade group should be conversant by the end of the project. The training will
therefore be informal, but the terms of reference will provide for comple-
mentary classroom training in such specific subjects as bituminous techniques,
steel culvert assembly, and equipment servicing.
3.23      A more structured training program for mechanics will be run con-
currently. It will have a tighter syllabus and a selected entry. The techni-
cal assistance team member in charge of it will be substantially free of
operational pressures. The appraisal mission was assured that eight suitable
candidates are available within CPW for this program. There is a good chance
that most of those receiving training under the project will remain with CPW



- 22 -
in the short term because of the virtual lack of an alternative job market.
However, this situation will not pertain for long, and it will be necessary
for CPW to review salaries, incentives, and career development opportunities
(para. 1.21).
C.   Cost Estimate
3.24      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at
US$10.1 million including physical and price contingencies. The taxes amount
to US$40,000 equivalent, on fuel. The foreign exchange component is GP 304.5
million (US$9.0 million) or 89% of total project cost net of taxes, and local
costs are GP 39.0 million (US$1.1 million). The table below summarizes the
cost estimate which is detailed in Annex 1.
Project Cost Estimate
---------US$'000----------  Foreign
(net of
Foreign Local Taxes  Total   taxes)
Equipment and spare parts       3732    -      -      3732    100
Workshop Equipment               103    -      -       103    100
Workshops                        197    69    -        266      74
Trans-shipment
Facilities                     300    17             317     95
Spare parts for rehabilita-
tion of existing equipment       100    -      -       100    100
Wages and salaries               -      975    -       975       0
Fuel, Materials and Supplies  2183    22    40    2245          99
Technical Assistance /1         2385    30    -       2415      99
TOTAL                      9000  1113    40   10153       89
(Rounded                   9000  1110    40   10150       89
of which:
Base cost (Jan. 1979)           7485   888    40    8413        89
Physical contingencies           791    87    -        878      90
Price contingencies              724   138    -        862      84
3.25      The cost of equipment and spare parts was estimated from recent
quotations in West Africa for similar units. Equipment operating costs were
estimated from the volume of work expected from each unit and prevailing
prices for fuel, lubricants, material, spares, and salaries.
1/   Including auditing.



- 23 -
3.26       The direct cost, excluding price contingencies and overheads, of
rehabilitation of asphalt roads is about US$8,100 per km. The cost of gravel
road rehabilitation in the south is about US$7,800 and in the north US$8,400
per km, including depreciation over the life of the project of 50% of the
equipment value.
3.27       The cost of technical assistance is estimated from unit prices for
similar services in West Africa, about US$6,500 per man-month which includes
salaries and the firm's overheads. Local allowances, housing, transport, and
overseas travel bring the average expenditure per man-month to about US$8,400,
without price contingencies. With all contingencies, the man-month cost is
about US$9,600.
3.28      A physical contingency allowance of 10% has been applied to all
project costs, except the technical assistance. For consulting services, a
contingency of 36 man-months costing US$238,000 in 1981/82 has been allowed,
should it prove necessary. Price escalation during the project period, 7.5%
in 1979 and 7% p.a. thereafter, was applied to both the foreign and local cost
of all project elements.
D.   Implementation
3.29       CPW will be responsible for the implementation of the road rehabili-
tation and maintenance program. Owing to the lack of experienced Guinean
staff, the technical assistance team will initially take up line functions in
project execution. Guinean counterparts, satisfactory to IDA, were appointed
during the appraisal mission and will work full-time on the project. As the
Guinean staff gain experience, they will take over the line functions from the
expatriates, so that in the final year of the project, the remaining members
of the technical assistance team will act as advisors.
3.30       The rehabilitation and improvement works will be done by force
account using CPW employees assigned to the project. Contract work would not
permit the important training and institution building aspects of the project.
Owing to the inexperience of the CPW with this type of project, the output
targets have been modestly set in the implementation schedule. (See also
paras 4.13-4.15). The work of the brigades will cover three working dry
seasons from late-1979 to late-1982. Patching on the paved roads will begin
in October 1979, and work on the laterite roads in the south in early 1980.
The brigade in the north will start in October 1980, one working season
later than the first two. This will avoid overtaxing CPW's technical and
administrative capacity and allow CPW technicians to acquire basic technical
skills. A condition for placing the order for equipment for this third
brigade will be that the first two shall have operated satisfactorily for a
period of four months and have reached output targets to be agreed upon during
implementation. Bidding documents for purchase of equipment, spares and
materials will be prepared by early 1979 and will incorporate a delayed
delivery for the equipment for the third brigade. Equipment delivery should
begin in mid-1979. After being des:igned by CPW's consultants, the trans-
shipment facilities will be constructed and installed by the supplier. The
chart on page 24 shows the execution schedule.



GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1978        1979              1980             1981            1982
ITEM                ACTIVITY           ACTION BY  3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th lst!2nd!3rd'4th lst'2nd:3rd)4th .lst'2nd'3rd'4th
Board Presentation
CREDIT          Signing                                                              E
Effectiveness          Govt/IDA                v y                       ,                     __,___ .
Technical Assistance   Negotiations            Government    i
Award of Contract      Government
Consultants Services  Consultant                                                                           i
Inception Report                      ,
Draft Final Report
Final Report
Purchase of             Preparation of Bids   Consultant
Equipment, Spare        Analysis of Bids       Cons/Govt                 -
Parts and Materials    Award of Contracts    Government    .
Delivery               Suppliers
Road Rehabilitation    Asphalt Brigade         Govt/Cons
Southern Brigade       Govt/Cons
Northern Brigade       Govt/Cons
Workshops/Buildings                                 -



- 25 -
3.31      The technical assistance to CPW would commence prior to field works
to permit preparation of bidding documents and an early start on rehabilita-
tion of equipment. This will require the services of some 10 man-months of
mechanical and highway engineering assistance during late 1978 and the first
quarter of 1979, for which the Government received from IDA an advance
of up to US$300,000 under the Project Preparation Facility.
3.32      Although the legislated market rate payable by CPW for rural un-
skilled casual labor is only US$1.20 per day, the low population density,
intense competition from agriculture during the maintenance season, the lack
of gang chiefs, and the history of forced labor during the colonial period
make the widespread use of labor-intensive methods impractical. CPW will
experiment with paid communal labor for brush-cutting and ditch clearing under
the project. This would be organized at the village level, the basic social
and political unit in Guinea-Bissau.
3.33      The project is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1982, but
work on the agreed program may continue into early 1983 if there are delays
in the ordering and delivery of equipment or execution of the works. Accord-
ingly, the cost estimate includes a price contingency of US$41,000 for this
possibility.
E.   Financing and Disbursements
3.34      The proposed IDA Credit would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
of the project, US$9.0 million. The Government will finance all local costs,
mainly wages, totalling GP 39.0 million (US$1.1 million), and GP 1.4 million
(US$40,000) in taxes. To ensure timely availability of funds, a project
Revolving Fund will be established in the Central Bank. The Government's
setting up of this fund would be a condition of effectiveness. IDA would
deposit in the fund the equivalent of US$150,000 representing the estimated
cost, over a quarter, of locally-purchased imported goods (mainly fuel and
cement) and directly imported spare parts necessary for the project. The
account would be replenished upon the receipt by IDA of invoices and
supporting documentation. At negotiations, the operational details of the
Fund were discussed and agreed.
3.35      The IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  for highway equipment and spare parts, the trans-shipment
facilities, radios and tlhe weighbridge, 100% of foreign
expenditures (cif Bissau);
(b) for spare parts for the repair of existing CPW equipment,
100% of foreign expenditure or 50% of local expenditures;
(c) for fuel, materials and supplies, 100% of foreign expenditures
or 94% of local expenditures;
(d) for consulting services, 100% of foreign expenditures; and
(e) for civil works for workshop construction and for the
trans-shipment facilities, 74% of total expenditures.



- 26 -
A sum of US$1,000,000 will remain unallocated. The disbursement percentages
have been calculated on the basis of the Government's exemption of all donor-
financed direct imports from all customs and duties, and on the basis of
the dealer markups, duties and taxes prevailing at appraisal on all locally-
procured goods (fuel, cement and some spare parts). IDA's disbursement
schedule is shown below:
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                  at End of Quarter
1979
March 1979                                          300
June 1979                                          1000
1980
September 1979                                     4000
December 1979                                      4900
March 1980                                         5400
June 1980                                          5640
1981
September 1980                                     6310
December 1980                                      6530
March 1981                                         6850
June 1981                                          7180
1982
September 1981                                     8020
December 1982                                      8320
March 1982                                         8520
June 1982                                          8720
1983
September 1982                                     8850
December 1982                                      8950
March 1983                                         9000
Requests for disbursements will be fully documented, and detailed supporting
material will be retained by CPW and available for inspection by IDA. The
project accounts and the Revolving Fund will be audited annually by indepen-
dent auditors satisfactory to IDA.
F.   Procurement
3.36      Bitumen, steel culverts, some building materials, equipment for the
field brigades, the trans-shipment facilities and major workshop equipment
(approximate value US$3.6 million) will be procured through international



- 27 -
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In evaluating
the bids for equipment, consideration will be given to the availability of
after-sales service and spare parts. Minor workshop equipment, survey and
laboratory equipment and radios wou:Ld be procured following quotations from
suppliers or bought off the shelf, provided the aggregate of such purchases
does not exceed US$200,000 equivalent. Spare parts for the rehabilitation of
existing equipment would be bought from the original suppliers (US$100,000).
Fuel would be supplied by DICOL, the local distributor of petroleum products,
and cement, through the Commissariat of Commerce, whose procurement procedures,
based on international tendering are satisfactory (approximate value US$1.0
million).
3.37      Technical assistance to CPW for project execution has been obtained
from a consulting firm satisfactory to IDA.
G.   Project Monitoring
3.38      The Government agreed at negotiations that it will submit to
IDA quarterly progress reports of its consultants, with its comments. At
negotiations, the Government also agreed that it will furnish to IDA promptly
at the end of the project the Consultants' final report, together with its
comments, which will together constitute a report on the execution of the
project.
IV. ECONOMIC APPRAISAL
A.   General
4.01      Both the condition of the road network and the lack of funds and
skilled manpower are serious constraints to Guinea-Bissau's rural development
strategy. A prime impact of the project will be the creation in the Commis-
sariat of Public Works of the capacity to rehabilitate and maintain Guinea-
Bissau's road network. But the project's three main physical components will
serve three more focussed goals:
(a) to preserve the extensive investment in paved roads north
of Bissau, postponing highway reconstruction, a poten-
tially heavy drain on the development budget, and maintaining
Bissau's communication with its hinterland and with Senegal
(paras. 4.05-4.06).;
(b)  to provide a basic land transport infrastructure in the
southern Buba and Tombali regions, now served only by
tracks in extremely poor condition, facilitating communi-
cation in the region and wi.th Bissau and agricultural
extension, and reducing vehicle operating costs for exist-
ing traffic (paras. 4.07-4.09);



- 28 -
(c)  to provide a basic land transport infrastructure to support
on-going, externally-financed agricultural development in
Gabu and Bafata, important producing regions for foreign-
exchange-earning groundnuts and locally-consumed grain crops
(paras. 4.10-4.11).
4.03      Vehicle operating costs are presented below:
Vehicle Operating Costs
(G.P. per vehicle-km, net of taxes)
Road Surface
Condition                 Paved                               Laterite
Car  Van   5t Truck  10t Truck   Car  Van  5t Truck  10t Truck
Excellent       9.6  10.4    19.9        35.6                  n.a.
Good           10.9  17.4    21.9        39.3      12.6  18.0   23.6        56.3
Fair           11.3  19.4    23.7        45.3      16.0  22.9   30.2        73.2
Poor           11.9  21.3    28.8        46.0     20.0  29.2   38.2         89.9
Very Poor                   n.a.                   24.4  34.9   45.8       102.9
Source:   Mission estimates.
4.04      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 33%
taking into account the benefits described below in paragraphs 4.05 to 4.11,
all project costs including the cost of the technical assistance (the full
benefits of which cannot be quantified) and the costs of investments, com-
plementary to the feeder roads, shown in the table on page 29 and discussed
in paragraphs 4.08 to 4.10. With a 15% cost overrun on all project equipment
and operating costs, the ERR remains an acceptable 31%. Shadow wage rates and
a standard conversion factor were calculated, but owing to the high proportion
of foreign costs, they do not affect the ERR.
B.  Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Paved Roads
4.05      The rehabilitation (patching and single-surface treatment) on
226 km of paved roads will prevent an increase in voc as the roadway deter-
iorated, and postpone massive costs of reconstruction, which is likely to be
needed if these urgent repairs are not undertaken. Without the project, the
appraisal mission estimates that about 140 km of the existing paved roads
(built around 1970-72) would need full reconstruction in three to five years,
at a cost of about US$125,000 per km (net of taxes, and shadow-pricing local
costs).
4.06      The ERR for the paved road operations is 146%, assuming that
they postpone the need for reconstruction of 140 km from 1982 to 1990.
Discounted at 12% the benefit-cost ratio is 4.6:1, and the net present value
is US$5.57 million. If the eventual reconstruction date is advanced, the ERR
falls, but even if the project extends the life of the roads only from 1982



CUIii A- S SSAIU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
1.  Paved Read Rehabilitation                                          II.  Regional Roads-So-th                               III.  Feeder Roads-Sooth   /                     IV.  Feeder Roads-Nort).
Techoical   Capittl Cost   Recurrent Cost  V0C Savings 2/                                Capital C'st          Recurrent Cost  VOC S.eings 2/   ComplementarY   Feeder toads  Produ.er                  Compl 5emntarg  Rovads  /Produc  r
Aseistance  Rehabilitation,  Maintenance                            Reconstruction    Rehabilitation             M Maintenance                        InveatMent 4                      Surplus         Inveetnent 5!               Surchi
mlkR      Vikbet 5         gth i                 _ i  itsibot  With  Withtos
io79/80      1250      308                                   11                                          189                                                         560                                               2000
1090/81       740      542                                   44                                          504                                     58                 1755                                               3000         496            990
i'fl/S2      520       542                                  89                                                                 50              213  *               1355               567          700                3000         657          2100
191F!83                                  109                119                          5000                                  50               223                  855               189         1400                               65          3100
9993,'84                                 109               125          40               6250                                  50              235                  1855                52         2150                              65          3160
4t9t.185                                 109               131          80               6250                                  50              246                   355                52         2300                              65           3200
(-cS/85                                 109         109   137          137                                                     50              260                   355                52         2600                              65          3300
i 96, 81                                 109        109   144          7 44                                                    50              272                   355                52         2600                              65          3300
i?o7!88                                  109        109   151          151
! 953 9 /8" 11                          109         109   159          159
1'1:9/90                                 109        109   166          166
lt 0/91                                             109   175          175   5000
*0! e2                                          109    120        184   6250
19.7193                                             109     6S         193   6250
1.  1.                                                     ERR. 1467       II.  1.                                    ERR_   177        III.   1.                         ERR=  16.       IV.  1.                       ERR.   2 .
2.  With 157. Increase in capital costs:                     134%            2.  With 157. incre.se  in capital                           2.  With 15% increase in                         2.  With 15% increase
3.                                            8CR at 12%: 4.6:1                                                costs:   12%                                 road costs :  157.                         in road costs:   261
4.  With 4 year slippage in 5without project"                                3.  Without 5-. p.s. traffic growth:    137.                 3.  % drop in benefits to                        3.  7. drop in benefits
reconstruction:  41%               4.  1 drop in be.efits to                                                  yield 12% ERR x   97.                      to yield  127. ERR:   33
yield 127. ERR:   23%
7. of total                    . of total project                  7. of total project
C-nponent                                                 project financial costs           economic cost  (NPV at  127)   economic benefits (NPV at 127)                    ERR (7.)
Paved road rehabilitation                                             24                                  22                                    27                           146
ReRional Roada:South                                                  12                                  11                                     3                            17
Feeder Roeds:South                                                    16                                  10                                    25                            16
Feeder Roads:North                                                    19                                  17                                    45                            27
Technical Assistance and Shar.d equipment 8/                          32                                  40                            NOT QUANTIFIABLE               NOT QUANTIFIABLE
ERR of project:                     337.
With 157. cost increase,            317.
A'A   cc-t5 and t'e  f'-  -  -r-ssed in lonoary 1979 prices.  Costs include physical contingencies vhrre applicable.  Ali taxes excluded, and local resources shadow-costed per par.. 4.04 of main text.
Pr- "cct -'o-io .Li!  refers t.  -sefuL life of equlp-ent for II, III, IV, life of pa-ment rehabilitation for I.
2i  5. yoa  trlf fc cr00 tot.
. I   ho  t --,teco,noro  co-t of LS563(0 per ho.
uj I,crcthe tra--sldweot f-cilities to he fino...od  -ider the  -nrject,  -ilge'ter 8,,PPles, salt water intr.sion harriers, health centers, eeed .ultipllcstion centre and training of extension
workers.   tco-Xolr.cple-elary                       (US$2.8 million)),  -ppl-ntnd by an asud 1S65 million roral development project.  Renefits for thls regional development Package are:   Ci) Increase
roc  ddc rr0d-ti-so 1  pro-cax le-e   by 1993 (17,600 t increme-tal coronrcialized  Iuii)   olo.ed b  (i  further 3,,.00 t increas.e by 1986.  (par-. 4.08-4.09).
'1 Icd-;FED  -nd FAC on-g.ing rice, groo.nd,ot, grain and cotton projec ts  in zone of Influenfce of th4eLroads.
l            ,d  - at econo,ic cost of US17300 per km, and subsequent maintenance.
7/  Prod-cer surplus ostioated at 451 of market value of production (para 4.10-4.11).
8i  Inclede, cost of consult-nts plus radios, veighbhidge, and workshops, shared aeong brigades.                                                                                                                                              '0
I



- 30 -
to 1986 (assumed to correspond to the life of the equipment), the ERR is still
41%, and the net present value remains above US$5.5 million. The ERR is also
not sensitive to possible cost increases: even with a 15% increase the ERR
remains above 100%.
C.   Gravel Roads - South
4.07      The rehabilitation of 133 km of gravel regional roads (Quebo-Cacine,
Tite-Buba, Batambali-Catio), at an estimated economic cost of US$6590/km, is
justified by vehicle operating cost savings. With existing traffic of about
25 adt, with a 5% annual traffic growth and a seven year life for the reha-
bilitation, the ERR of these works is 17%. With a 15% cost increase, the ERR
remains satisfactory at 12%. Should traffic not increase, the ERR is 13%.
4.08      Traffic on the 97 km of tracks to be upgraded to 4.5 mi-wide feeder
roads is low, generally less than 5 adt. These roads and the trans-shipment
facilities are important features in the Government's plans to revitalize
agricultural production in the Buba and Tombali regions. With the help of
external assistance from UNICEF, the Netherlands, EDF, the Federal Republic of
Germany, and the World Council of Churches, the Government has already begun
to develop village water supplies, to establish health centers, to reconstruct
barriers against salt intrusion (destroyed in the war) and has established a
center for seed multiplication and training of extension workers. An inte-
grated rural development project including distribution of seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides, creation of an extension network, and rebuilding dykes, is now
under discussion with several donors. Such a project, about US$5.0 million,
would allow by 1986 a doubling of total paddy output from the 1976 production
of 34,000 t. As this is already a rice surplus area (7,700 t commercialized
paddy in 1976), all incremental output would be available for sale. Essential
aspects of this strategy, extension services and distribution of farm inputs,
depend on road access to the villages, as does transport to main collection
and storage centers at Bedanda, Enxude, Cacine, Catio, and Buba for water
transport to Bissau.
4.09      With an economic cost of US$615,000 (US$6340/km), the feeder roads
in the proposed project are a small element (about 18%) of the committed
investment in the Buba and Tombali regions, which totals about US$2.8 million.
By increasing cultivable surface, and by production assistance (mainly exten-
sion and inputs), the 21,200 t incremental annual paddy production expected
by 1985/6 from the areas adjacent to project roads 1/ has a value of about
US$2.6 million, net of direct production costs and transport to Bissau, the
main market. The regional investment package, including a US$5 million rural
development project, has an ERR of about 16%. Other investments in the south,
to diversify crops and increase production to even higher levels, are possible:
the feeder roads would support these efforts.
1/   About 60% of total incremental output of 34,000 t in the two regions.



- 31 -
D.   Gravel Roads - North
4.10      The rehabilitation of 75 km of existing roads to 6 m-wide modern
gravel standard, and of 93 km of existing tracks to 4.5 m wide feeder roads,
supports on-going integrated rural development projects financed by the
European Development Fund (EDF) and the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC). The EDF project, to be completed in 1980, has a total cost of US$7.2
million. Its objectives are the intensification of food crop, cotton and
groundnut cultivation on 27,000 ha, benefitting over 6,000 families. The 4500
ha FAC project, which concentrates on groundnuts, has similar objectives.
Annual payments to producers for the increased output would be US$5.2 million
per year at full production in 1983, of which producer surplus is estimated at
US$3.3 million.
4.11      The total economic cost of US$1.16 million of the roads in the
proposed project is small relative to the US$8.0 million of investment by EDF
and FAC. The roads, however, are essential to the full success of these
rural development projects, permitting cheaper and reliable access between
nearly 65% of the area to be cultivated (about 20,000 ha, accounting for 75%
of total incremental output) and regional markets. The ERR for the package of
agricultural, social, and road investments is about 27%, taking the value of
net incremental production (producer surplus) as the project benefit. A 15%
increase in road costs reduces the ERR of the package only slightly to 26%.
F.   Project Beneficiaries
4.12      The Government is the principal direct beneficiary of the project.
The rehabilitation of paved roads will postpone expensive reconstruction, a
potentially serious drain on the development budget. Vehicle operating
savings on paved and gravel roads wi:Ll accrue to operators: mainly the
Government administration and the two state trading companies, Armazens do
Povo and Socomi. These firms, which are responsible for the purchase and
transport of all agricultural products, and the distribution and sale of
all consumer goods, should be able to reduce their trucking costs and thus,
retail prices, and, in the case of the south, improve the quantity and range
of goods available to farmers at their rural outlets. Better roads in the
soutih will improve access to markets and to social infrastructure, The
development impact of the roads in the Bafata and Gabu regions, where agri-
culttural projects are underway, is shared by the rural beneficiaries (8,000-
10,000 families -- about one third of the population in these areas), who
will enjoy increased cash incomes, and by the economy as a whole, by increased
foreign exchange earnings (from groundnuts and cotton) and savings (on imports
of lice, maize, and sorghum). The project also will have a substantial in-
stittLtional impact on the Commissariat of Public Works by creating the basic
management and technical skills necessary for the functioning of the road
sector, and by increasing the skills and productivity of about 180 CPW staff.



- 32 -
F.   Project Risks
4.13      Although this is only the first IDA project in the country, Govern-
ment officials have worked closely in its preparation. There is, at all
levels, understanding of and commitment to the project's general objectives
and to the spc--ific agreed physical targets. Key project staff have been
appointed, and the informal action-oriented style of civil service should be
able to cope with any unforeseen problems. Close supervision is planned,
both to help smooth project execution and to acquaint the Government with
IDA's methods and procedures.
4.14      The country's inexperience and limited absorptive capacity pose
major risks to the project. The project has been designed and phased to
attempt to take this into account. To minimize the risk of a delay in
project start up caused by slow ordering and delivery of equipment, Project
Preparation Facility is being used to prepare bidding documents, set up the
project's administrative structure and begin training. The execution sche-
dule incorporates a delay in the start of the southern laterite rehabilita-
tion brigade from November 1979 to February 1980 to allow ample time for
deliveries, setting up workshops, moving equipment to the sites, and train-
ing operators. Although with a daily production rate of 570 meters per
day, the brigade might easily achieve 60 km in a 5 month working season,
the first year's output of this brigade has been conservatively estimated
at 30 km. On this basis a spillover into the 1982/83 dry season would be
necessary to complete the feeder roads in the south. The modest additional
cost to the project would be US$41,000, which has been included in the cost
estimate. The overall ERR of the project and of the southern brigades has
been calculated on the basis of this timing, and the effect of this delay
on the ERR is minimal.
4.15      A delay in equipment delivery would not affect the paved road re-
habilitation since the necessary preparation and patching prior to resurfac-
ing could begin in October 1979 as scheduled, as the equipment typically has a
short delivery time even if orders are not placed until July 1979, some three
months later than the target date. The delayed start of the third brigade to
1980/81, which is conditional on the satisfactory operation of the first two
(para 3.30), reduces its total output, but avoids undue strain on the adminis-
trative capacity of the CPW, and permits greater attention to training and
technical quality from the start, during the 1979/80 operations season.
IDA's financing of fuel and materials ensures their timely availability, a
key factor for best use of the equipment. The Revolving Fund will expedite
ordering of and payment for spare parts and supplies from overseas suppliers,
and simplify accounting and disbursement procedures for CPW and IDA.



-- 33 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Prior to Credit negotiations, the Government negotiated a contract
with consultants, acceptable to IDA, to assist in the execution of the project.
It contains satisfactory assurances about housing for the technical assistance
team (para. 3.20).
5.02      During negotiations for the proposed Credit, the following prin-
cipal issues were discussed and agreements reached with the Government and
specified as conditions in the Credit Agreement:
Condition of Effectiveness for the Proposed Credit
(i) establishing the Revolving Fund (para. 3.34);
Other Conditions
(ii)  agreement on a project implementation schedule including
the confirmation of the order of equipment for the third
brigade only after the first two brigades have been
operating satisfactorily for a period of four months, or
such other period as the Government and IDA may agree, and
have reached output targets to be agreed upon during imple-
mentation (para. 3.30);
(iii) agreement on preparation of a completion report (para. 3.38).
5.03      Furthermore, assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that:
(i)  it will enact by January 1, 1981, and begin enforcement
of axle-load regulations appropriate to the geometric and
technical characteristics of the highway network (paras.
2.08, 3.19); and
(ii)  it will finance the continued maintenance and rehabilitation
operations by the brigades after completion of the project
(paras. 2.32 and 3.13).
5.04      The proposed project is su-itable for a Credit of US$9.0 million to
the Government of Guinea-Bissau on standard IDA terms.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Z Foreign
-----------------GPOOO -- ---           --    ----------------US$' 000--------------- Cost (net
Foreign    Local       Taxes      Total    Forei '       Local      Taxes       Total   of taxes)
1. Basic Cost                                  261,975      31,080      1,400   294,455        7,485       888         40       8,413         89
1. Highway equiprent and spare parts   114,450             -           -     114,450       3,270         -           -       3,270       100
2. Workshop equipment                         3,150        -           -        3,150         90         -           -          90       100
3. Workshops and buildings                    5,705      1,995         -        7,700        163        57           -         220        74
4. Spare parts for rehabilitation of
*  existing equipment                         3,500        -           -        3,500        100        -            -         100       100
5. Wages and Salaries                           -       26,950         -       26,950        -          770          -         770         0
6. Fuel. materials and supplies              62,020         630      1,400    64,050       1,772         18         40       1,830        99
7. Technical assistance                      64,750      1,050         -      65,80        1,850         30          -       1,880        99
8. Trans-shipment facilities                  8,400         455        -        8,855        240         13          -         253        95
II.Physical Contingencies                       27,685       3,021        -       30,706         791        86                     877
on Items  1.1                 -              11,445        -           -       11,445        327         -           -         327
I.2                                  315        -          -           315          9        -           -            9
1.3                                  560        210        -           770         16         6          -           22
I.4                                  -          -          -             0        -          -           -            0
I.5                                  -        2,695        -        2,695         -          77          -           77
1.6                               6,195'         70        -        6,265         17i         2          -          179
I.7                                8,330        -                   8,330         238        -           -         238
I,8                                  840         46        -          886          24         1          -           25
IIi. Price ContinGencies                        25,340      4,830         -       30,170         724       138          -         862
on Items I.1                                 4,725        -          -        4,725         135        -           -          135
1.2                                  140        -          -          140           4        -           -           4
I.3                                  630        2'10       -          840          18         6          -          24
I.4                                  -          -          -            0        -           -           -           0
I.5                                  -        4,480        -        4,480        -          128          -         128
I.6                               8,190          70        -        8,260        234          2          -         236
I.7                              10,395         -          -       10,395        297         -           -         297
1.8                               1,260          70        -        1,330          36         2          _          38
I   II II                                315,000    38,931        1,4G0   355,341       9,00        1.112        40      10,152        (89Z)
(Rounded)                                315,000    38,950       1,400   355,350        9,000      1,l10        40       10,150



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Guinea-Bissau has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (IDA) to undertake a road maintenance
and rehabilitation program. The project is conceived to (i) rehabilitate
key elements of the country's road network and (ii) strengthen the managerial
and operational capacity of the Government's road maintenance service. The
consulting services are required to assist the Government in carrying out
the program outlined below.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the Services is to assist the Commissariat for
Public Works, Construction and Urban Affairs (CPW) to implement a road re-
habilitation and maintenance program, specifically the equipping, establish-
ing, and operating of three road brigades, and their supporting administrative
and technical services.
3.        The objectives of this program are to:
(a) develop the capability of CPW to plan and execute highway
rehabilitation and maintenance works according to sound
engineering, economic and management practices;
(b) carry out needed rehabilitation on a network of bituminous,
gravel and feeder roads and initiate proper maintenance
operations on these roads.
4.        The project will include inter alia:
(a) the purchase of (1) highway equipment and spare parts, (2)
workshop tools and equipment, (3) spare parts for the repair
of some existing items of highway maintenance equipment,
(4) construction materials, (5) radio communication equip-
ment, and (6) teaching aids and materials;
(b) rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of the
road network;
(c) on-the-job training for highway and workshop personnel with
complementary classroom teaching; and



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(d) rehabilitation for some items of unserviceable road main-
tenance equipment.
As presently conceived the project will consist of three operating brigades,
one for bituminous roads, one for laterite roads in the Buba-Tombali region,
and one for feeder roads in the Bafata-Gabu region, together with supporting
administrative and workshop services.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.   General
5.        Under the overall control of the Commissar for Public Works, the
consultants' team, with the assistance of Guinean counterparts and a team of
employees drawn from the existing CPW staff, shall manage all the administra-
tive, procurement, financial, technical and operational aspects of the project,
as required, to achieve the objectives set out in Section II above. However,
it shall be the aim of the consultants progressively to pass day-to-day manage-
ient responsibility to their counterparts, and to assume an advisory role in
the final year of the project. The Government, for their part, shall provide
or cause to be provided the personnel, facilities, etc., outlined in Section
VII below. However, the consultants shall be solely responsible for the
analysis and interpretation of all information they receive and for the con-
clusions and recommendations presented in their reports.
B.   Operations
6.        The attached map indicates the priority roads to be re-sealed or
regravelled under the program. The consultants shall be responsible for
setting up the brigades described in 2 (i) and 2 (ii) and organizing equip-
ment, manpower, and materials into operational units and carrying out the
physical works on the roads indicated. The standards to be used on the
various roads shall be defined by the consultants in agreement with CPW
during the first three months of the project. A detailed work program
with an indication of fuel and materials requirements shall be given in
the Inception Report following this period.
C.   Training
7.        The training element of this project is important for the function-
ing of the brigades and for their future viability. The consultants shall
prepare a program of training for all the trade groups required for successful
operation of the brigades and their supporting administrative and workshop
personnel, based on numbers agreed with CPW. This program must be carried out
within the framework of the brigade operations and the equipment rehabilita-
tion but will also include complementary classroom instruction.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
D.   Equipment Rehabilitation
8.        In consultation with CPW, the consultants shall prepare proposals
for a limited program of rehabilitation of existing heavy equipment and
vehicles at present out of service, which in their view, within the constraints
of manpower and technical services available and useful for training, should
be rehabilitated and, after approval, carry out the program.
E.   Supporting Administrative Services
9.        The consultant shall examine the administration and physical ser-
vices for the procurement, warehousing, issuing and delivering of material
and supplies required for the operation of the project's field brigades,
for the payroll of project personnel and for the operation of the project's
Revolving Funds. They shall recommend such improvements as are compatible
with the Government's overall administrative regulations and, in agreement
with the CPW, assist in their introduction into the administration of the
project.
F.   Technical Services
10.       To ensure the timely maintenance and repair of the brigades' equip-
ment, the consultant shall (a) take over and equip a suitable area of existing
workshop office and warehouse accommodation at CPW headquarters, and there
establish and operate a servicing and repairing facility and accommodate
within the operation the training requirements for workshop personnel; (b)
establish and run a small sub-depot at Buba and eventually at Bafata also
for servicing of and minor repairs to the laterite road brigades' equipment.
G.   Procurement
11.       These services shall include:
(i) the preparation of bidding documents suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding for the supply of heavy
equipment and vehicles, spare parts and consumables,
workshop tools and equipment, housing and other materials
required for the execution of the project;
(ii) administration of the procurement procedure, evaluation of
the bids, and the subsequent setting up of inventory, issue
and control procedures for the goods so procured.
IV. TIME SCHEDULE
12.       The Consultants shall commence field work on this program within
thirty calendar days of the effective date of the Contract.
The program shall be carried out in two stages:



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
STAGE I - During this preparatory stage of 4 months, a General
Plan of Action shall be developed concerning all aspects of the
rehabilitation, maintenance and training programs, and contracts
for the purchase of equipment and materials shall be awarded.
STAGE II  -  During this stage, i.e., during the remainder of the
consultants' contract period, the consultants shall assist CPW in
the implementation of the agreed Plan of Action, and in preparing
a program, as appropriate, for continuing the activities begun
under this project.
V.   STAFFING
13.       The following qualifications are considered as minimum require-
ments for the staff:
General: All team members shall have a good working knowledge of
spoken Portuguese; the project manager and the administrator shall
be fluent in written and spoken Portuguese, and in either English
or French. All team members should have had experience of public
works operations in a developing country, preferably in Africa.
(a) Project Manager - should be a qualified highway engineer and
have at least 7 years' experience in the construction and main-
tenance of bitumen and gravel roads and shall have served at
least one term in a position of responsibility in a similar
project.
(b) Administrator (responsible for accounting and management) -
should have at least five years' general experience in procure-
ment, accounting, inventory and control of spare parts and
materials, and in the general administration of an operational
works unit, and shall have held at least one position as the
leader of an administrative unit.
(c) Two Highway Technicians or Highway Engineers (Brigade Chiefs) -
For a highway technician 10 years', and for an engineer, a
university degree and 5 years' experience in highway works,
at least two years of which must have been in a supervisory
capacity in a road maintenance organization. Previous expe-
rience in the savannah region of a developing country is
essential and some teaching experience would be an advantage.
One man must offer specific experience of sprayed bituminous
surfacing.
(d) Three Mechanical Technicians - should have an approved trade
school diploma and a wide experience of the servicing and
repairing of both heavy plant equipment and trucks and vehicles.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
At least three years' experience in a workshop management
position is required for one post. Previous experience as a
mechanic instructor is desirable for two posts and required
for the third.
(e) Mechanical Engineer (Required for four months only) - should
have at least five years' experience in the field of highway
and workshop equipment, with a thorough knowledge of specifi-
cation writing and general procurement pjrocedure.
(f) Operator Instructor - should be experienced in the operation
and daily servicing of several types of heavy equipment
(graders, dozers, etc.) and vehicles and should be capable
in a four-month period of teaching CPW employees on the job.
VI. REPORTING
14.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports
within the periods indicated:
(i)  An Inception Report within four months of-the starting date.
This Report should contain the general plan of action for
executing the road works, the training program, the training
programme, the equipment rehabilitation programme, and draft
contract documents for the purchase of the equipment (other
than the major items) tools, fuels, and materials required
for the execution of the project (10 copies in Portuguese to
the Government, 5 copies in Portuguese and 5 in English to
the Association).
(ii)  Progress Reports, at three months' intervals after submission
of the Inception Report, giving a statement of all work per-
formed during the reporting period, a summary of interim
findings, and an outline of the work program for the next
two reporting periods (10 copies in Portuguese to the
Government, 5 copies in Portuguese and 5 in English to the
Association).
(iii) Draft Final Report, within 39 months of the Starting Date,
summarizing (a) all works performed, (b) major findings and
conclusions, and (c) recommendations for a continued program
of road maintenance and rehabilitation (10 copies in
Portuguese to the Government, 5 copies in Portuguese and
5 copies in English to the Association).
(iv) Final Report, within 43 months of the Starting Date, incor-
porating (a) all revisions deemed appropriate by the consul-
tants after receipt of coimments on the Draft Final Report
from the Government and t'he Association; and (b) an annex
listing all comments which have not resulted in revisions
of the report (number of copies to be determined by the
Government and the Association).



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
The reports mentioned in (i) to (iv) above shall contain a concise
first chapter summarizing all important results, findings, problems, and rec-
ommendations of the Consultants. The Draft Final Report shall be edited and
completed so that the production of the Final Report can proceed without
delay.
VII. PERSONNEL, FACILITIES AND DATA TO BE PROVIDED BY CPW
A.   Personnel
15.       The Government shall make available for full time employment within
the project the following personnel:
(a) suitably qualified persons to act as full-time counterparts
to each member of the consultants' team. It is intended that
these counterparts will assume the full responsibilities of
the consultants before the end of the project;
(b) approximately 190 persons who will form the staff on the
three brigades, broadly capable of filling the following
categories:
Heavy Equipment Operators
Truck and Vehicle Drivers
Trainees - Laborers - Mechanics and Workshop personnel
Office staff
B.   Technical and Economic Data
16.       The Government shall provide the consultants with all necessary
data including:
(i) maps;
(ii) inventory of existing equipment both operational and not;
(iii)  details of the personnel to be assigned to the project,
including, where available, education, past experience
and present responsibilities;
(iv) any relevant information on the current administrative
and accounting procedures of the CPW.
C.   Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants
17.       The Government shall make available for the exclusive use of the
project the following workshop and office space at its Bissau headquarters:



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
(a) at least six bays of an existing workshop building with
suitable yard and parking space adjacent;
(b) space in an adjacent bui:Lding either existing as, or suitable
for conversion to, offices warehouse, and classroom, com-
prising a minimum of 400 m in area;
(c) a site suitable for use as a residential compound by four
members of the consultants' team and their families
accommodated in mobile homes or pre-fabricated buildings.
An electric generator installation will be supplied as
part of the project equipment. A water pumping distribution
and treatment installation can be supplied, but the site
must have a suitable source of water;
(d)  sites for establishing project workshops at Buba and Bafata.
18.       The Government shall take all necessary steps to permit the movement
of the con6ultants' staff safely and without hindrance both into, out of, and
internally within the country, as required for the performance of their
services.
19.       In connection with work by the Consultants that requires the
cooperation of local authorities or other Government agencies, CPW is to
provide liaison and to ensure that Consultants have access to all information
required for the performance of their services.



- 42 -                                     ANTFNX ITT
Page 1 of 2
GUINFA-BISSAU
FIRST ROtDS PROJECT
Equipm,ent for Brigades
Asphalt  |Laterite Brigades        Total
Brigade                            Cost
Item                        HQ.       Buba    Bafata         USS '000
Dozer 200 HP                                       1        -         140
Dozer 150 HP                          -           -          1          97
Track loaders                         1           1          1         219
Wheel loaders                         1            1         1         162
Graders                               -           2          2         315
DuDp trucks                           3           7          5         420
Rollers                               3           2          1         125
Wlater ta2kers                        -           1          1          70
Bitumen sprayer                       1           _          -          36
Chipping distributor                  1                                  6
Agricultural tractors                 1           1          1          30
Liaison vehicles                      2           2          2          42
4-wheel drive vehicles                1           1          1          36
Field service trucks                  -           1          1          80
Bitumen relay tanker                  I           -          -          50
Screening plant                       1           -         -           65
Decanting unit                        1           -          -          18
Rotary broom                          1           -          -           4
Emulsion sprayers                     2           -          _           2
Fuel tanker                           1           -          -          48
Low bed trailer                       1           -          -          40
Road tractor                          1           _                     65
Flat bed truck                        1           -          -          15
Fl.at bed trailer                     -           1          1           6
Concrete n:ixers                      -           1          1          10
Radio sets                            2            3         3           8
isece]laneou.3                                                         130
2g239



- 43 -
ANNFX III
Page 2 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Local Staffing Requirements
Headquarters
arnd Asphalt      Buba       Bafata
Brigade       Brigade    Brigade
.Counterparts to Consultants'team       5               2           2
Foremen                                2                2           2
Drivers and Operators                 11               20          19
Tradesmen                                              10           6
Labourers                             25               30       ,25
Admanistrative                          8               2           2
Mechanics                              10               4           4
-61              70          60
Total 191
1ixed Installations at Buba and Bafa.ta
For each location                                               Cost US$ OOO's
Workshop and Stores Building 180 m2                            30
Workshop' Equipment                                            20
Office building 50m2                                           11
Fuel storage tanks                                             30
Electrical generator                                           50
Lighting water supply sewerage and fencing                     13
154



- 44 -
GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED FIRST ROADS PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   1.   "Etude Generale du Reseau Routier," Macchi-Valle Associates, Rome,
1977.
2.   "The Maritime Scene in Guinea-Bissau," George A. Veres (Consultant),
Washington, D.C., 1978.
3.   "L'Economie de Transports des Marchandises en Guinee-Bissau,"
Peter B. Warren, UNCTAD, September 1977.
B.   1.   "Cereal Marketing in Guinea-Bissau," March 1977.
C.   1.   Highway Map of Guinea-Bissau.
2.   Topographic Sheets of Project Road areas (South and North).
3.   1977 Budget of Commissariat of Public Works.



'0I6!30                                        SIrJo                                            rI!5oi                                         !00             --_.                            ,20                                              100'                                 AIBRD 13626R
S                E               E                E                G               A                 L
(,                                                                                                                                                                                    To 900cr                                 On Dck,                     To OSroor
F-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
-wb6~ ~~~~~
A TI A NTI C
V                                                                                    -                      gundima                   XCembOlU                        ;;;buco;          Plro'do  -  -* =    > ^ e.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ;-'-'adia-d-c  d-djLiA
'3?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1, ,  d4s_'  
0 CEAN I
000~ ~~~~~~                                                                                      ~       ~~~~~~~ -  e  -  r00                   4o, tXucd    3>  / Rhorarrrboi
GN                                                                                                                                                                                        GUI N EA- Bei                               r GUINEA-,ISSAU
g   /-'   D/f mdw/vs fs dPmpfbv*hil                                                                              f g -  :,t4fmr                                                                                       Regional bo, dorles~~~Redond
FIRST ROADS PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK
NUQO    h00-                                                                                                                                                                                          aebrasRoad Reriab,lmt-to  an,d
\   ffW 14en n/ Wbfeit d i. A =ehed ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o inan
\   ,2   (J   wShff mtowWs6Ed,whw.         .                                            i                                                                    o             10            2a            30             40            50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 d -t  ai', .. 
Unpo   rod -m c                   Pod 10006
0/                                     '.6se&OrsU                                                                                                       Soamps                       A     Workro.ps
I Mod flats
_110                                                                                                                                                                                                                             National apitol              -      Prp-re  rod po-,,g wo
106A   F  R  [  C  A"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                inreira-on  aiport
Mi r'e,raa ee.ncrer.r.sar roe                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regiona boundarias
Tead.orco.na,.ra,de,drr.                                                                               \c-)                                     ~ ~~~~~~~                 ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80
dacotdadlvo,coapa,act                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETER5
.crearrcal,Orarr.rcaaarrrac                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
________________________________________                                      tO'OQ                                            090          -       '                           0<3                                             000                                   0006,0107-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   3



