Document of
The World Bank                                  FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3191-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
ENERGY PROJECT
May 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =          Cedis (¢)
US$1           =          2.75 Cedis
1 Cedi         =         US$0.36
US$1           =          SDR    1.08
(The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this
Report is that of April,1983)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
f kilometer (km)                         0.68 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       =         0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                          2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =         2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                              0.26 US gallon (gal)
I cubic meter (m3)             =         6.3 barrels (b)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB         =         Capital Investment Board
EEC         =         European Economic Community
GRAIP       =         Ghana Italian Petroleum Company
GNPC        =         Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
GOIL        =         Ghana Oil Company Limited
GSD                   Geological Survey Department
GSI         =         Geophysical Service, Inc.
MFP         =         Ministry of Fuel and Power
NEB         =         National Energy Board
RRI         =         Robertson Research International
TOE         =         Tons of Oil Equivalent
UNCTC       =         United Nations Center for Transnational Corporations
VALCO       =         Volta Aluminum Company
VRA         =          Volta River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 :   Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary              :   Ministry of Fuel and Power
Amount                   :    SDR 10.2 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Terms                    :    Standard
Project Description           The primary objectives of the project are to re-
kindle and accelerate petroleum exploration in
Ghana. It would entail (i) collection, pro-
cessing and evaluation of all past exploration
data, including evaluation and integration of
7,300 km of new seismic data acquired under a
recent agreement between the Government and a
private geophysical contractor (GSI); (ii)
acquisition, processing and evaluation of 1,000
km of new seismic data in an area recently relin-
quished by an oil company and not covered by the
GSI survey; (iii) revision of the country's
petroleum legal framework; (iv) preparation of a
promotional package for the oil industry; (v)
organization of bidding of acreage; (vi) nego-
tiation of petroleum exploration and production
contracts; and, (vii) monitoring of activities of
companies exploring in Ghana. The project would
also aim at strengthening the technical capabi-
lities of the proposed Ghana National Petroleum
Corporation and the National Energy Board by
providing it with expert assistance, training,
equipment, office and storage space.
Project Benefits              The project's main benefit to Ghana would be to
enhance the capacity of the petroleum sub-sector
organization and put the Government in a position
to rekindle interest of private foreign capital
to undertake hydrocarbon exploration. The area
to be promoted for petroleum exploration is
mostly offshore and consists of about 70,000 sq
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
km of potentially attractive acreage. The tech-
nical assistance to the National Energy Board
would provide the basis for the government to set
sectoral policies and coordinate sectoral develo-
pment, in particular as concerns energy pricing,
gas utilization and renewable energy.
Risks                      :    The project's major risk is that the prospects
uncovered may not be attractive enough for for-
eign companies to enter into exploration con-
tracts. Given the results of past exploration
which has led to modest oil production and to oil
and gas discoveries, this risk is considered
acceptable. There is also the risk that delays
may occur in hiring expatriate specialists and in
recruiting and retaining competent local staff.
Given the experience under Project Preparation
advances granted for this project the risk of
delays in hiring expatriate consultants does not
appear to be great. The legal status of the
Ghana National Petroleum Corporation would permit
it to recruit and retain qualified staff. There
is no special risk associated with the other com-
ponents of the project.
Estimated Cost
Foreign    Ihcal   Total
77   -(US$ '000)
(a)  Petroleum Exqporation Promotion
Seismic Survey                                      1,000       -    1,000
Geological and Geophysical Studies                  2,600       65   2,665
Tano Tar Sands Evaluation                             655       75     730
Revision of Legal Framwork and Assistance
with negotiations                                   140       10    150
Sub-Total              4,395      150   4,545
1/ The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- iii -
(b)  Assistance to Ntional Oil Caxpany
Resident Petroleu Geologists and Ergineers               1,295       155   1,450
Training                                                   350         -      350
Office, Storage Space and Equipnt                          200       120      320
Sub-Total                1,845       275   2,120
(c)  Assistance to Ntional Ehergy Board
Resident aTid Visitirg Experts                             765        50      815
Trainirg                                                   175        -       175
Office Equipment ard Facilities                            245        -       245
Field testing in Renewable Energy                          175       400      575
Sub-Total                1,360       450    1,810
(d)  Project Preparation Funds Advances                          715       -        715
Sub-Total                  715        -      715
Baseline Coat                                            8,315       875    9,190
Physical Contirgencies                                     735        45      780
Price Contingncies                                       1,950        80    2,030
Total Contirgencies                2,685       125   2,810
TOTAL PROJECr COST                                      11,000     1,000  12,000
bForeig    Load    Total
(US$ ')000>-
Financng Plan
in                                 11.0       -       11.0
Goverrment                           -        1.0      1.0
Total                              11.0       1.0      12.0



- iv -
Estimated Disburseirnts
Fron the Ilk Credit:
FY84    FY85      EY86      FY87
-US$ millionr---
IDA - Annual         2.951/    2.70      2.95       2.40
Qmulative            2.95       5.65     8.60      11.00
Rate of Return:       N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
Map: 2/               IBRD 16160
1/  Includes PPF advances of US$715,000 disbursed in FY82 and FY83.
2/ All concessions on this map have been relinquished except that of
Agip/Aracca, Texas-Pacific and a small part of Phillips (Blocks IN and 2N)
acreage.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR AN ENERGY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 10.2 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the
Republic of Ghana to help finance an Energy project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic Memorandum" was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors in May 1979 (2345-GH) and a special study
"Ghana: Report on Domestic Resource Mobilization", in February 1981 (3072-
GH). An economic mission visited Ghana in November/December 1982, and its
principal findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.       On December 31, 1981 Flight Lt. Rawlings replaced the Government
headed by President Limann. The ruling junta, the Provisional National
Defence Council (PNDC), initially consisted of military men, trade union and
student leaders and was characterized by an inward looking strategy. Recent
purges following an attempted coup in November 1982 have consolidated the
power base of Rawlings and strengthened the more pragmatic elements in the
Council.
4.       Ghana has been beset with serious economic difficulties in recent
years. The discussion in this section is centered around the following
questions: What endowments does Ghana possess, what has happened in the past,
where does the economy stand at present and what is being done to rectify the
present situation.
1/       This part of the President's Report is substantially unchanged from
the President's Report for the Water Supply Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project dated March 7, 1983 (Report No. P 3479-GH).
The economic recovery/program referred to in paragraph 25 of this
report was announced in Accra on April 21, 1983 and details of the
program were not available when this Part of the Report was being
prepared. A full description, analysis and evaluation will be
included in the President's Report for a proposed Reconstruction
Import Credit which is planned for presentation to the Executive
Directors later this fiscal year.



-2-
Basic Structural Characteristics
5.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for 50
percent of GDP in 1980, 57 percent of the labor force and 75 percent of
exports. Industrial production and services account for 17.5 and 32 percent
of GDP respectively. Although Ghana had traditionally enjoyed a fairly high
standard of living compared with most other West African nations, the poor
growth performance of the economy over more than a decade has caused a severe
setback. A declining gross national income in the face of a high population
growth rate has contributed to substantial erosion in real per capita
income. The incidence of absolute poverty has been on the increase and almost
one half of the country's total population is now estimated to live in
absolute poverty. Accompanying the stagnation in the economy has also been a
worsening of income distribution and growing unemployment. At least 18
percent of the labor force is estimated to be unemployed and under-employment
is widespread.
6.       Although Ghana has in the past devoted considerable efforts to the
development of its human resources and is often credited with a relatively
high level of social development, more recent statistics suggest that Ghana's
basic needs indicators are now no more than on par with other Sub-Saharan
African countries with comparable income per capita. Ghana's population of 12
million is estimated to be growing at 3 percent and the indications are that
it will grow even more rapidly in the future. Despite the growth in health
facilities, modern health services are available only to about one third of
the people and only 21 percent of these services are available to rural
people. Only 35 percent of the population have access to safe water. Fifty
percent of all adult males and 70 percent of adult females have had no formal
education, although the education system is well established and elementary
education has been free and widely available since 1962. In recent years,
there has been a considerable migration of Ghana's middle-to-high level
manpower to other African countries and overseas in search of better living
conditions.
7.       Ghana is a typical example of a developing country with primary
commodity export concentration. Cocoa (of which Ghana is now the world's
third largest producer) contributes about 60 percent of the country's export
earnings and together with timber, gold, manganese and diamonds accounts for
95 percent of exports.  Cocoa production in 1982/83 was around 190,000 metric
tons, compared to 538,000 tons in 1964/65. Diversification of the export
base, although emphasized by every succeeding Government, has not made much
headway during the last 25 years.  The decline in the volume of exports has
been one of the most significant factors underlying Ghana's poor economic
performance.
8.       The basic staple foods consumed by Ghanaians are maize, rice, millet,
yam, cassava and plantain. Except for a few years in the early seventies when
near self-sufficiency was reached in basic cereal production, Ghana has been
importing rice and maize (10 to 15 percent of its consumption on an average in
the last five years). Yields of the basic staples have been stagnant with the
major exception of cassava. Prolonged drought in 1975-77, inadequate support



- 3 -
services, poor transport facilities and lack of fertilizers and inputs have
contributed to a decline in food production. Domestic output of cereals is
estimated to have declined from 890 thousand tons in 1974 to 544 thousand tons
in 1982. About 55 percent of the labor force is engaged in farming and nearly
70 percent of the population derives an income from agricultural or related
activities. However, only about 11 percent of the total land area is
cultivated and divided equally between cocoa and food crops.
9.       Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported
inputs. Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP in 1971 but this figure
has declined progressively to 9 percent in 1980. Ghana's manufacturing
industries include textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer
goods. This sector also provides full and part-time employment to about 12
percent of the labor force. As most of the industries are still import
dependent for raw materials and other inputs, the goal of import substitution
through industrialization has not met with much success.
10.      Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chiefly
as a source of fuel for the transport sector. Rising oil import prices have
resulted in crude oil imports absorbing an increasingly large percentage of
Ghana's export earnings. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and
commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude oil is about 1,200
barrels per day equivalent to 7 percent of Ghana's annual requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
requirements.
11.      Mining is the second largest foreign exchange earner after cocoa,
contributing about 10 to 15 percent of Ghana's foreign exchange earnings.
Ghana has a substantial endownment of gold, diamonds, manganese, and bauxite
and the industry is capable of substantially increased production through the
rehabilitation of existing mines and the development of new ore bodies.
Recent Economic Developments
12.      Despite a relatively well-endowed natural resource base and human
capital, Ghana's economy has been ailing for the past several years.
Prominent among the symptoms have been: declining per capita incomes, persis-
tent high inflation, a greatly overvalued exchange rate, flourishing illegal
economic activities such as smuggling, large public sector deficits, a diffi-
cult balance of payments situation, low productivity, low domestic savings and
declining investment, a deteriorating transportation network and other infra-
structure, severe underutilization of productive capacity, high unemployment,
a brain drain of skilled professionals and much weakened institutions. The
reasons for these difficulties are manifold. Political instability and
persistent mismanagement of the economy by successive Governments, an over
extended parastatal sector, sharp increases in oil prices and adverse terms of
trade for Ghana's major exports are among the most important factors contri-
buting to this situation.



13.      Real GDP has declined in every year since 1975 except for 1978.
Since that year, real per capita income has declined by about 25 percent and
was estimated at $400 in 1981. Food production in 1982 was only 61 percent of
the level in 1974. Most basic commodities, except cereals and starchy
staples, are not available or if they are available can be purchased only on
the black market.
14.      Inflation has been rampant in Ghana since the mid 1970's.  The
consumer price index has increased by an average of about 80 percent per annum
since 1975 and reached the triple digit level in 1981. Large public deficits,
excess liquidity and shortage of goods have all contributed to the general
rise in prices.  Price controls have been employed by successive Governments
extensively but with very little success. The income distribution
consequences of inflation have been quite severe for fixed wage earners and
cocoa farmers while traders, import licencees, speculators and farmers with
marketable crops have been the main beneficiaries. There has been some
moderation in inflation in 1982 and the consumer price index is estimated to
have risen by 30 percent as compared to 116 percent in the previous year.
This decline in the rate of inflation was brought about by extraordinary
measures such as demonetization to siphon off excess liquidity, sealing of
borders, severe restraint on Government expenditure and monetary growth.
15.      The overvalued exchange rate (which was adjusted only recently i.e
April 1983) has acted as a strong disincentive to production for exports.
Exports were discouraged as the cost of their production far exceeded the
price received at the official exchange rate. Over-valuation had also
resulted in a wide variety of illegal and unproductive economic activities.
Domestically-produced and imported goods were smuggled to the Ivory Coast and
Togo for sale against the hard CFA with tremendous losses (estimated unoffi-
cially at US$100 million per annum) to the country's official exchange
reserves.
16.      Serious imbalances in public finances have been quite persistent
since 1975 except for 1978/79 when the budget deficit was reduced from 12 per
cent to 5 percent of GDP under a program of stabilization. However, this
improvement was short-lived and could not be sustained during the subsequent
years. The increase in the minimum wage in November 1980 and a serious
shortfall in revenues widened the deficit to ¢4.7 billion or 10 percent of GDP
in 1980/81. Cocoa duties fell dramatically to 5 percent of total revenues, as
a result of a fall in cocoa prices in the world market, an overvalued exchange
rate compounded by acute difficulties in evacuating cocoa, and increases in
CMB's marketing costs. In addition, the Government tax base had narrowed as
excise and sale tax assessment was based on official controlled prices of
commodities which were much lower than actual transaction prices. Similarly,
import duties were assessed on the c.i.f. value converted at the official
exchange rate while actual sales of imported commodities took place at much
higher black market rates. The tax-GDP ratio in 1981 declined to about 10
percent of GDP as compared to 15 percent in 1974.
17.      In 1981/82 the Government deficit amounted to about 5 billion cedis,
i.e. 50 percent of the total estimated expenditures of ¢10 billion or equiva-



- 5 -
lent to the total revenue collection. The deficit during the last six months
of 1982 was, however, contained at 02.5 billion or almost the same proportion
as the preceding 12 months. In real terms and as a ratio of current GDP the
deficit has gone down but this was achieved at a substantial cost. The wage-
non wage ratio of recurrent expenditures has become more skewed while develop-
ment expenditures as a proportion of total Government expenditures have
declined significantly.
18.      The financing of the budget deficit has been the main source of
credit and liquidity expansion in the Ghanaian economy. In 1977 alone the
money supply increased by 60 percent. Following the 1978 stabilization
program the growth of money supply was held at only 29 percent in 1979. But,
by 1980 the tight rein on monetary policy began to slip. Net domestic assets
of the Bank of Ghana and the banking system rose to 29 percent with net claims
on Government rising by 33 percent; money supply rose by 34 percent. The same
pattern was followed in 1981: money supply rose by 55 percent, domestic assets
of the banking system increased by 63 percent and net claims on Government
went up by 63 percent.
19.      The balance of payments difficulties have continued to worsen.
Current account deficits have been a regular feature except the year following
the stabilization program. Given the negligible capital inflows, the levels
of imports and service payments have perforce been held to the level of export
earnings. Export earnings in 1981 are estimated to be 33 percent lower than
in 1980 ($766 million as compared to $1.1 billion). Continuing decline in the
real value of producer prices and the shortage of consumer goods in rural
areas have been a further disincentive to agricultural production and a
contributory factor to the smuggling of foodstuffs and cocoa to neighboring
countries where consumer and other goods are available. International reces-
sion has contributed to this poor export performance. Because of weak demand,
world prices of cocoa recorded a steep fall in recent years and prices of
other primary exports were equally unfavorable. Other major exports - gold,
bauxite, diamonds, and timber-have also declined in quantities. The interna-
tional oil crisis has also hit Ghana hard. Imports of crude and petroleum
products preempted almost one half of the country's export earnings. The
foreign exchange problems resulted in the accumulation of external payments
arrears which damaged Ghana's creditworthiness and its access to foreign
capital markets. The current account balance showed a small surplus in 1979 -
equivalent to 0.3 percent of GNP but has since registered increasing deficits,
amounting to around 0.7 percent of GNP in 1981.
20.      Although current account deficit was low compared to other African
and developing countries, it is misleading as it masks the most important fact
that the decline in the level of imports has created chronic and extremely
acute shortages of raw materials, spare parts, capital and consumer goods in
the economy. The import-GDP ratio in Ghana was 20 percent in 1974 but had
declined to only 3.6 percent by 1981, (at the official exchange rate) signi-
fying an overall stagnation in production and consumption. Production in the
manufacturing sector has been curtailed to only one-fourth of the installed
capacity due to shortage of spare parts, components and imported raw
materials. There has also been a sharp deterioration in the physical infra-



- 6 -
structure, especially roads, railways and the transport fleet. Shortages of
fuel, lubricants and spare parts have immobilized a large part of the trucking
and road maintenance fleet and badly affected the export mining and forestry
industries as well as the efficiency of the ports. It is estimated that more
than 70 percent of the road vehicle fleet is presently out of service while
more than one third of Ghana Railway Corporation's locomotives are awaiting
spare parts for major repairs or overhaul. Road maintenance operations have
come to a virtual standstill and the entire road network is deteriorating
rapidly and is already unusable in many places.
21.      In comparison with many African countries, Ghana had a large reser-
voir of skilled and trained manpower. In recent years, there has been a
tremendous exodus of teachers, doctors and other professional workers to other
countries where salaries and living conditions are better. It is reported
that approximately one third of all secondary school teachers have migrated to
Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone and other Anglophone countries.
22.      A growing imbalance is emerging between the quality and output of
skilled manpower and the economy's skilled manpower requirement. The outflow
of managerial and professional personnel has further thinned the
administrative talents in the Civil Service while redundancy and overstaffing
is a problem at lower echelons. The Ghanian public administration has been
demoralized by relatively low salaries, an economic system which has penalized
them severely compared with other segments of the society and uncertain and
adverse working conditions. There are problems of quality and motivation at
the senior level.
23.      Capital formation was quite rapid during the 1950's but became
increasingly negative thereafter. By the 1970's, gross investment averaged
only 8.9 percent of GDP and net investment may even have been negative. Gross
investment is currently estimated to be 5 percent of GDP as compared to 21
percent for Sub-Sahara Africa as a whole. In an inflationary environment with
very little scope for productive investment opportunities and negative real
interest rates, domestic savings were also low - about 5 percent of GDP (the
average for Sub-Sahara Africa is 23 percent). Savings deposit rates of 8 to 9
percent provide inadequate incentives to savers facing inflation rates in
excess of 30 percent. The binding constraint is however availability of
foreign exchange rather than resources for investment.
24.      State enterprises in Ghana have been assigned a large role in produc-
tion and distribution of goods and services.  However, their performance has
been distressing and has generated serious pressures on fiscal and monetary
policies. For example, total subsidy requirements of the public enterprises
rose from 067 million in 1973/74 to more than ¢4 billion in 1982. Although
the exchange rate adjustment will eliminate the major subsidy in cocoa pro-
ducer prices and improve the profitability of some export parastatals. The
other problems such as inefficient management, Government control on prices,
lack of required inputs, machinery and spare parts, heavy overhead expenses on
redundant labor, too frequent changes in top personnel and lack of strict
accountabiity need to be tackled systematically.



-7-
Economic Recovery Program and Prospects
25.      The new Government that came to power in December 1981 recognized the
need to undertake major economic reforms and institutional changes that could
guide the economy from the current crisis back to a basis from which sustained
economic development could be resumed. An economic recovery program
consisting of major policy changes in exchange rate, fiscal, monetary and
prices and income has been announced recently. An IMF mission is currently in
the field to discuss the use of Fund resources for support of the recovery
program.
26.      Though the problems of adjustment in the short term, by themselves,
are so compelling, they have been further compounded by the recent inflow of
an estimated one million Ghanaians expelled by Nigeria. In the wake of the
acute shortage of essential commodities and food, the pressure on prices is
likely to be enormous. The costs of rehabilitating these families will place
an additional burden on the already strained financial resources of the
Government. Financial assistance from international and bilateral sources in
addition to stabilization program support will be required to help overcome
this problem.
27.      Following a short term stabilization program, Ghana would require a
comprehensive economic rehabilitation program during the next three to four
years before a solid foundation can be laid for resumption of economic
growth. Besides a substantial infusion of foreign exchange for increasing the
overall level of imports, improved allocation is required to appreciably
augment the supply of basic consumer goods, raw materials and spare parts to
sharpen the supply response of mining, manufacturing, timber and agricultural
activities. A program to rehabilitate the road, port, railway and transport
infrastructure of the country will also need substantial external support.
The other tasks that need to be accomplished include improvement of parastatal
operations, a review of the role of the private and public sectors in the
economy and strengthening Government capacity for planning and economic
management.
28.      Ghana's growth prospects beyond the stabilization and rehabilitation
phases will depend to a considerable extent on the determination of the
Government to sustain the kind of economic policies indicated under the
economic recovery program and an investment plan that fulfills the key
requirements of the economy. The speed of this transition process will depend
upon the Government's ability and willingness to implement these reforms
despite the fact that some of its features may not be universally popular.
29.      Should the Government succeed in maintaining a more realistic
structure of prices and costs and a viable exchange rate, restrain growth in
public consumption, improve public revenue performance, reduce strong
inflationary tendencies associated with large public sector deficits, and make
a concerted drive to expand production and exports, particularly of cocoa and
minerals, through more appropriate price incentives, support services and more
assured supplies of necessary inputs, it should be feasible to achieve rates
of real growth in excess of 4 percent per annum (or 1 percent per capita)



-8-
after 1985/86. With sustained improvement in economic management, the economy
is capable of even higher rates of growth. However, the attainment of even a
modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own efforts be supported by an
augmented flow of external assistance to overcome the present external
resource constraint. External capital flows - both official and private -
have slowed down to a mere trickle in recent years for the reasons described
above. New loans and grants from all bilateral and multiLateral sources in
1982, for example, amount to only US$45 million. Net transfers from all
external sources were still lower - US$38 million. For a country of the size,
population and potential of Ghana, this amount is clearly inadequate. Ghana's
needs for external assistance will be substantial over the next few years and
will call for a major effort on the part of the donor community provided that
Ghana continues to pursue prudent economic policies and demonstrates an
improvement in its economic management. As Ghana has yet to reestablish its
creditworthiness, this amount has to come out of official sources. Unless
such concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possibi%ty of a successful
stabilization program and economic rehabilitation program would be seriously
diminished and could adversely affect the country's stability. At the same
time, the managerial and administrative effectiveness and efficiency of the
Government and other public sector organizations should be improved to remove
logistic bottlenecks and ensure greater capacity utilization.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
30.      An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, are to be
paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of 10
years, at 2 1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1981 is estimated at US$1,339
million representing about 20 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of
public and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt is about 9 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly for
the remainder of the 1980's. Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased
from US$245 million in 1977 to US$489 million by end-1978. By December 1980
these arrears had declined to US$332 million. However, 1981 saw a relapse
with arrears increasing by $142 million. By the end of 1982, the short term
arrears had accumulated to $580 million. The economic recovery program aims
to reduce these arrears in a phased manner.
31.      Ghana is relying on official sources for the bulk of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little of
its medium and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. As of January
1982, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed together represented about 11
percent of the estimated country's total public external debt. Service
payments on Bank loans and IDA credits at that time accounted for 21 percent
and 2 percent respectively of the country's external debt service. The share
of the servicing payments on Bank loans has increased in recent years as other
sources of non-concessional lending to Ghana have almost phased out and
bilateral loans contracted in the sixties were rescheduled. The share of
service payments to the Bank is projected to decline to 17 percent by 1985 as
Ghana makes payments on its rescheduled debt. Net transfers from the Bank
Group to Ghana during the last decade have averaged US$25-30 million. Bank



- 9 -
Group commitments, on a per capita basis, have amounted to US$1.76 during
1977-82 and the lending has been less than a project a year during this
period.
32.      The country's difficult economic situation and its vulnerability to
fluctuations in cocoa export earnings, make it desirable that future debt
service obligations be kept as low as possible. As Ghana is no longer
creditworthy it will depend on IDA credits in the next few years. This is
also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita income. At the same
time, to help ensure a more adequate flow of foreign exchange resources to the
country it would be appropriate to finance a portion of the local costs of
projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
33.      Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 18 credits
totalling US$219.7 million. Ghana is also a beneficiary of a Bank-financed
regional clinker project which covers three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana). There are no TFC investments. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
34.      Bank Group lending in Ghana has been centered on power generation and
distribution, agriculture, transport and communications, water supply and DFC
operations. Power generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past commitments (32 percent). Bank Group involvement in the sector started
in 1962 with the construction of the Akosombo dam and power plant. Other
projects in the sector include the Kpong Hydroelectric project and three
projects for the rehabilitation and expansion of the power distribution
network. Alongside power generation and distribution, agriculture has been a
major focus of Bank Group lending, receiving 26.6 percent of the Bank Group's
lending to Ghana. The lending program in agriculture has covered oil palm,
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries, and two regional projects focussing on
production of food crops and establishment of a system of support service.
Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank Group's program
in Ghana (24.3 percent of commitments). Projects financed in the sector
include four road projects and a railway rehabilitation project. An ongoing
telecommunications project aims at improving and expanding domestic long
distance services. In the field of water supply two projects have helped
increase and improve the water supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and
adjacent rural areas. Two DFC operations have financed investment projects in
manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises.
35.      The serious economic difficulties which the country has experienced
in recent years have adversely affected implementation of most Bank Group-
financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the Government has
constrained its ability to finance the local costs of projects, and the lack
of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials
and spare parts required for the operation and maintenance of projects; the



- 10 -
mass exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighbouring countries, and
demoralization, absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work
force have also adversely affected project performance. Because of delays
experienced in the implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana,
the disbursement performance is falling behind appraisal estimates. The Bank
Group has held periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify
steps which could be taken by Borrower and the Bank Group to accelerate
disbursement on ongoing loans and credits.
36.      The lack of foreign exchange has had a particularly damaging effect
on the condition of the road network and the operation of the Ghana Railway
Corporation. An adequate transportation system will be a critical component
of the Government's economic recovery program both for the movement of exports
and the distribution of goods and production inputs. Implementation of the
Third Highway Emergency Road Maintenance Project (1980) which has been slow in
the last three years should now begin to improve and the Railway
Rehabilitation project (1981), which did not become effective until late 1982
will start the process of bringing idle capacity back into operation through
the provision of spare parts and materials. In the absence of any significant
progress towards the adoption of essential economic reform measures no new
lending proposals have been considered by the Executive Directors since
1981. Nonetheless, some work has continued on the preparation and, more
recently, appraisal and reappraisal of a portfolio of projects which would
support the introduction of an economic recovery program.
37.      The Government of Ghana has requested Bank-Group assistance in
supporting its program and in helping to muster external assistance through
co-financing and more generally in the context of strengthened aid
coordination. The extent to which the Bank-Group can provide financial, and
technical assistance, act as a catalyst in attracting substantial cofinancing
and provide overall leadership in bringing together donors and other aid
insitutions in a concerted effort to accelerate and greatly increase the flow
of external. resources will be conditioned by the performance of the Government
in carrying through its economic recovery program.
38.      During the next year or so while Ghana's economic recovery program
unfolds it would be prudent to retain some flexibility in our program of
assistance in order to respond to changes in the behaviour of the economy and
the emergence of new priorities.
39.      The principal objectives, which will guide the formulation of our
assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of policies
designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return it to a path
of growth, (b) to help rehabilitate and improve capacity utilization of the
country's existing assets, (c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial
production, particularly for export promotion and efficient import
substitution, and (d) to improve the country's essential infrastructure
(transport, power) so as to relieve major bottlenecks to increased
production. We also plan a substantial increase in our economic and sector
work to broaden and deepen our understanding of the constraints which are
likely to impede the recovery process, to provide direction to our future



- 11 -
lending program and the design of project components.  In both our lending and
economic and sector work attention will be given to ways of strengthening the
institutions responsible for economic management and development spending.
40.      In reactivating our lending program we plan to respond to the
substantial progress which has been achieved in putting together a major
structural reform program and to support our dialogue with the authorities on
policy reform measures by providing a modest amount of project financing in
FY83. A water supply technical assistance and rehabilitation project for the
Accra/Tema system which through lack of maintenance is in danger of collapse,
was approved by the Executive Directors in March. We have also appraised a
quick disbursing reconstruction import credit, to bring essential agricultural
inputs and spare parts for the transport industry in the country particularly
in rural areas where the Government is working to absorb the returning
Ghanaians. Since the economic recovery program gives highest priority to and
its success is largely dependent on revitalizing Ghana's exports, an export
rehabilitation project has been included in the program. The project would be
aimed at halting and reversing declining production of key export industries
(cocoa, gold, mining and timber) as well as providing further support for the
rehabilitation of the trucking industry and port infrastructure. While the
export rehabilitation project will address the most urgent needs of the export
sector, a more broadly based program of rehabilitation of the country's
economic assets will be required. In the near term we plan to support a
program to rebuild the network of trunk roads including a major bridge re-
construction component, provide assistance to rehabilitate the power
distribution system, and the oil refinery. In agriculture further assistance
to the development of oil palm production is envisaged as well as for cocoa,
given the overwhelming importance of this crop, at least in the short term,
for foreign exchange earnings and the substantial potential for rapid
increases in cocoa production. Projects with major rehabilitation components
are therefore likely to absorb the bulk of Bank Group resources for the next
few years as these are likely to show the highest benefits and quickest
returns. For the outer years and in the expectation that the recovery program
progresses satisfactorily, the Bank will begin to examine prospects for new
productive investments including providing support for energy, education,
health and other important activities in the social sectors.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Resource Base, Output and Demand
41.      Ghana is relatively well-endowed with energy resources.  Wood is
abundant in the high forest zone which covers 34% of the total land area (8.2
million hectares). Hydropower resources are also abundant, particularly in
the central and western regions of the country. The economically useable
potential is estimated at 2,000 MW, more than twice the presently installed
capacity, although the costs of tapping this unused potential are high. With
the recent completion of the Bank-financed Kpong scheme, installed capacity
has increased to 1,030 MW. Proven reserves of petroleum amount to less than 8



- 12 -
million barrels but the petroleum potential is considered larger. There are
no known coal, lignite or peat deposits. Solar energy abounds, while the
potential for wind energy is limited.
42.      Domestic output of energy consisting primarly of wood and, to a minor
extent, hydropower and petroleum, was estimated at 3.6 million tons of oil
equivalent (TOE) in 1980 and covered nearly 86% of Ghana's energy
requirements. Energy demand of 4.2 million TOE, or 360 kg per capita in 1980,
is relatively low in comparison to other African countries. Wood meets some
73% of primary energy demand, petroleum 17%, and hydropower 10%. Despite the
economic decline during most of the 1970s, energy demand during 1971-79
increased by close to 5% p.a., spurred by low petroleum product and
electricity prices. Recently, however, scarcities of petroleum products and
breakdowns in electricity supply slowed the pace of consumption growth and
resulted in some replacement of petroleum products. Energy demand over the
1980s is projected to grow at about 4% p.a. with commercial demand growth of
4.3-4.5% annually. A significant improvement in the overall economic
situation would create more rapid increases in commercial energy demand.
Demand is expected to grow fastest for petroleum products, electricity, and
charcoal as growth of energy demand for transport and the urban residential
sector is predicted to be relatively high. The sectoral breakdown of final
energy demand is estimated to be as follows: residential (urban and rural)
over 67%; industry and commerce, 15%; transport, 12%; and agriculture, less
than 6%.
Sector Institutions, Policies and Issues
43.      The principal responsibility for the energy sector devolves on the
Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP), which is responsible for the petroleum
subsector including the technical aspects of minerals exploration, including
petroleum exploration, as well as for the safety of petroleum installations
including drilling rigs and storage facilities. The Ministry is also
responsible for matters pertaining to firewood and charcoal. Research and
demonstration projects on renewable energy have been undertaken by the
University of Science and Technology and various scientific and engineering
institutions.
44.       In an attempt to respond to the pressure brought on by rising
petroleum import costs and by a Nigerian oil embargo in 1979, the Government
created the Committee on Energy Resources to review options available to the
Goverrnment for the effective management of the sector. The Committee's
recommendation for the setting up of a permanent body dealing with energy
matters was endorsed by an IDA Energy Assessment mission. However, the
previous Government delayed implementing this recommendation, and instead
created other ad hoc entities, such as the Petroleum Promotion Council. The
new Government has approved the establishment of the National Energy Board
(NEB), as the single advisory body to the MFP. NEB would be responsible for
creation of a comprehensive statistical data base on energy resources,
production, transformation and end-use, for developing and coordinating energy
policies, conducting energy studies, and coordinating activities and preparing
a work program in the renewable energy field. Formal establishment is



- 13 -
expected by the end of 1983. Until then, the recently created technical
division in the MFP which is headed by a Technical Director, will be
responsible for initiating these activities.
Energy Pricing
45.      Electricity and petroleum product pricing has been inadequate over
the last decade. With assistance from the Association, an electricity tariff
study by Electricite de France was completed in 1981 and although tariffs for
domestic customers at the retail level were increased by 155% in 1981 (not
including VALCO, the aluminium company), they still remain below long-term
marginal costs. Tariff increases of nearly 40% are under Government
consideration at present. The Government is also independently negotiating an
increase in the power rates paid by VATCO. Through its involvement in power
projects under preparation, the Association will continue to monitor progress
towards power tariff reform.
46.      Petroleum product prices are Government- controlled at the ex-
refinery, wholesale and retail levels. Until the exchange rate adjustment
announced in April, the structure of petroleum product prices was as follows:
Regular      Premium
Gasoline      Gasoline      Gas Oil     Kerosene      LPG
------------------- ¢/Imp. Gal .-----------------------
Ex-Refinery Price          6.59         7.85          4.65         3.66        2.16
Taxes                     3.79          3.53          2.93         0.42        0.43
Transport Costs; Margin  0.89           0.80          0.80         0.80        1.46
Wholesale Price          11.18          12.18          8.38        4.88        4.05
Retail Price aT           11.30         12.30         8.50         5.00        4.33
Source: MFP
47.      The prices have been substantially revised upwards as a result of the
exchange rate adjustment but are still being subsidized by the Government. It
is the intention of the Government to fully phase out the subsidy. The pro-
posed project would include a study to devise a rational pricing policy and a
mechanism for revising prices in the petroleum field. During negotiations,
the Government has agreed to prepare a plan of action and schedule of imple-
mentation on petroleum product pricing based on the study for discussion with
the Association by December 31, 1984. (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
a! Conversion of the retail price at the official exchange rate does not
provide a basis for meaningful comparison with international prices,
because of the overvaluation of the cedi.



- 14 -
Investment Requirements
48.      Public investments to meet the growing demand for energy are likely
to continue to be concentrated in the power sector. During the next five
years, these investments would be mainly for extension of the existing inter-
connected network. They would be considerably lower than over the previous
five-year period (just above US$100 million, compared to US$261 milLion) as
major expansion of generating capacity (Kpong hydropower scheme) has just been
completed and work on the next scheme (Bui hydropower) is not expected to
start until the late 1980s. The Government is planning to invest in the reha-
bilitation and expansion of its refinery at Tema and expects sizeable private
investment in hydrocarbon exploration and possibly development. It is also
considering investment in renewable energy, which may offer economically
attractive alternate sources of energy.
The Renewable Energy Subsector
49.      More than 95% of Ghanaian households depend on wood or charcoal for
cooking fuel. Forest-based products also meet a substantial proportion of
energy needs in activities. such as food processing, post-harvest drying and
beverage making. Projections of the forest resource balance through 1990 show
an annual allowable cut of about 23 million m3. Total wood demand by 1990 is
expected to comprise around 17 million m3 of fuelwood and a maximum of 6-7
million m3 commercial forestry cut. Although these figures indicate at an
aggregate level that Ghana is not likely to face a forest depletion problem
over the next decade, there are serious prospects of regional fuelwood
scarcity, particularly in the extreme northeast.
50.      Possibilities exist in Ghana to develop small and mini hydropower
sites in rural areas. Solar energy is also abundant, while the potential for
harnessing wind energy for pumping water appears to be restricted to the Accra
plains. (See Annex IV for detailed discussion of the renewable energy
sector.) There is a large amount of research being done in the renewable
energy field by various Ghanaian institutions with the assistance of public
and private aid agencies. To coordinate these research efforts and promote
the use of renewable energy so that it could replace the use of petroleum
particularly in the rural areas, the Government has decided to establish a
renewable energy unit as part of the National Energy Board and has created an
Energy Fund, funded through a special levy on petroleum products. Through the
provision of experts, training and equipment, the proposed project would
assist the NEB in the coordination and preparation of programs for investment
in renewable energy in rural and agricultural areas and help attract any
foreign financing that may be needed.
The Petroleum Subsector
51.      Ghana presently is a minor petroleum producer, producing some 1,200
barrels per day, to meet about 7% of domestic requirements. Although it is
not a petroleum intensive economy by international standards (its 1982
consumption amounted to 0.7 million tons or 60 kg per capita), Ghana's heavy
dependence on imported petroleum for commercial energy and the increased



- 15 -
import cost of crude oil has strained its foreign exchange situation. Whereas
in 1976 US$48 million was spent on oil, representing less than 6% of exports
of goods and services, a much smaller quantity of oil imported in 1982 cost
over US$280 million, or nearly 40% of Ghana's estimated exports earnings.
Scarcity of foreign exchange and the Nigerian embargo led to cutoffs of
petroleum supplies in 1979. Since 1980, crude petroleum imports have been
limited to one million tons, and even with lower international prices in the
future, petroleum imports would continue to be burdensome for Ghana.
52.       The table below shows petroleum product consumption in Ghana in 1970,
1978 and 1982.  The largest consuming sector is transport, representing three-
quarters of total consumption.  The remainder is accounted for by the
residential sector, 16%, and the industrial and agricultural sectors, 9%. In
terms of product consumption, gas oil accounts for the largest share (35%),
followed by gasoline (34%).
Annial
Thousand netric tons     Growth Rate (%)         Ccmposition (%)
1970     1978     1982   1970-78     1979-82   1970     1978     1982
12G                 4        7        5       6.3       -8.1     0.7      0.8       0.7
Gasoline           172     264      239       5.5       -2.5    30.2      31.5     33.9
Kerosene           73      125       122      7.1       -0.6    12.8      15.0     17.3
Jet Fuel           -        48       29        -       -11.8      -       5.8       4.3
Gas Oil a/        241      311      250        -        -5.3    42.4     37.1      35.4
Txdustri7L Diesel   1        4        8      29.3       18.9      -       0.5       1.1
Residual Fuel Oil   79      78       53      -0.3       -9.2    13.9      9.3       7.5
Total Dtmestic
Consanption      570     837       706       4.8      -4.2   100.0    100.0    100.00
/a Includes bunkers.
Institutions in the Petroleum Sector
53.      Although the Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP) has primary
responsibility for the petroleum sector, there are several other agencies or
bodies involved in petroleum matters: these include, the Petroleum Promotion
Council, the Geological Survey Department (GSD) and the Petroleum Department
which are involved in the negotiations of agreements, promotion and monitoring
of exploration and importation of crude oil respectively. In addition, the
Ghana Italian Petroleum Company Limited (GHAIP) (owned by the Government)
operates Ghana's only oil refinery with technical assistance from a subsidiary
of the Italian company, ENI; and the Ghana Oil Company Limited (GOIL), a state
owned distribution company which has a 24 percent share of the domestic
petroleum products market.
54.      With the assistance of the UN Center for Transnational
Corporations (UNCTC) and consultants, Robertson Research International (RRI)
of the UK, financed under advances from the Project Preparation Facility, the
Government studied ways of streamlining the organization of the petroleum



- 16 -
subsector and decided to create a Ghana National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC),
to be responsible for exploration, development, production and disposal of
petroleum. GHAIP and GOIL would remain independent.
55.      Since the GNPC is to be an autonomous state corporation, it would be
in a position to pay higher salaries than paid by the Government civil service
and therefore would be in a better position to attract and retain qualified
and competent staff. Until the GNPC has been established, which is expected
before the end of 1983, the Technical Division of the MFP will assume the
responsibilities for exploration and promotion matters on an interim basis.
Legislation outlining the objectives, functions, responsibilities, funding and
organization of GNPC was discussed during negotations. While the Managing
Director of GNPC and the heads of the various departments will be Ghanaians,
appointed in accordance with public service procedures, the key technical
advisory posts in the Exploration and Production Departments will have to be
filled with qualified experts with considerable experience in the oil industry
(Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement). This will also be
true of the mechanical/marine engineers who would supervise the inspection and
certification of oil industry plant and equipment. The project includes funds
for the training of about ten or twelve Ghanaians who would work for GNPC.
(para. 68).
Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
56.      Petroleum exploration and production are governed by the Minerals Act
of 1962, the Mineral Oil Taxation Ordenance of 1956 and their regulations.
They provide for exploration licenses of 5 years (renewable for 2 years) and
production licenses of 20 years (30 years offshore), renewable for 10 years.
The law provides for rental fees, royalties and production bonuses as well as
for taxes of 50 percent of profits. The legislation can be improved to
reflect modern practices, in particular by increasing the flexibility of its
fiscal provisions to reflect the potential of different areas or the size of
discoveries. With the assistance of UNCTC, as well as RRI, the Government
initiated a review of the country's petroleum laws. A comprehensive report
was submitted by the UNCTC to the Government in June 1981. In November 1982,
the Government appointed an independent consultant to review the UNCTC report
and assist in the preparation of a final draft of the legislation and the
model exploration and production agreements. The proposed project includes
funds to complete preparation of this new legislation and formulation of model
petroleum exploration and production agreements. During negotiations the
broad outlines of the law were discussed and it appears that the law forms an
acceptable basis for promotion of exploration. The Government has indicated
its willingness to exchange views with IDA on the law, as well as on the model
agreements when these are prepared.
Geology and Exploration to Date
57.      Ghana possesses three onshore sedimentary basins, the large inland
Voltain Basin (104,000 sq km) in the north, the Tano Basin on the southwest
coast and the Keta Basin in the southeastern coastal area, and one offshore
basin of around 70,000 sq km, including the deep offshore. The offshore basin



- 17 -
appears the most promising and has been the object of most past exploration.
(See Annex V for a detailed discussion of Ghana's geology and exploration to
date.)
58.      As a result of past exploration efforts that began some 85 years ago,
52 wells have been drilled, 20 onshore and 32 offshore. Exploration to date
has led to the discovery and development of one marginally economic oil field
at Saltpond and several oil and gas discoveries which are still to be
appraised. Expected production at Saltpond (3,000-5,000 barrels/day) has not
yet materialized. With the agreement of the concessionaire (Agripetco), and
with the assistance of RRI, the Government carried out a preliminary reservoir
engineering study to reassess the field. Production from the field of about
1,200 barrels a day is declining and is expected to reach uneconomic levels by
the end of 1983 unless further investments are made. It appears, however,
that Agripteco is neither willing to invest any further, nor has it been
successful in finding partners. This could lead to Agripteco abandoning
operations towards the end of 1983 or before. Total production from the field
at that time would be of the order of only 2.7 million barrels from reserves
estimated to be more than 50 million barrels of oil in place. An additional 7
or 8 million barrels may be recoverable, if further investments such as in
drilling of additional wells or water flooding, are undertaken. The project
provides for funds to monitor further investments by Agripetco and, if
necessary, to complete the reservoir engineering study and to determine the
best possible course of action to follow with regard to the Saltpond field.
The Government will review with the Association the results of the study, as
well as any plans the Government may have with regard to development of the
field itself. (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement). Also, a
decision will need to be taken with regard to the gas being flared at
Saltpond, amounting to nearly 10 million cubic feet a day. The project
includes funds for a natural gas utilization study which would evaluate
potential domestic markets in power generation and other large volume energy
uses.
59.      Phillips Petroleum (US) has been exploring in Ghana since the early
1970s. The Company has drilled several exploratory wells in the Tano area
which had hydrocarbon shows. Evaluation of these discoveries, however, has
not been completed. Recently, Phillips has given up most of its acreage in
Ghana and may want to relinquish all of its remaining acreage by the middle of
this year.
60.      In the same Tano area, but onshore, "tar sands" have been identified.
Studies by RRI have concluded that these "tar sands" may in fact be a near
surface accumulation of light oil and that the numerous oil and gas seepages
in the area are significant since they provide evidence of a prolific down dip
hydrocarbon source which should provide sufficient hydrocarbons to fill any
traps. Before promoting the area to the industry, however, the subsurface
structure will have to be mapped by shooting a few seismic lines and the
drilling of some shallow core holes. Funds for this work have been included
in the project.



- 18 -
61.      Exploration to date demonstrates that the geological conditions
necessary for the formation of oil and gas accumulations exist in Ghana. But
the structures are complicated by block faulting and mixed stratigraphic/
structural trapping; therefore, more intensive exploration is needed to fully
evaluate the petroleum potential of Ghana. Only four companies are operating
in Ghana: Phillips, Agip, and Agripetco in the offshore region and Texas
Pacific, onshore. For all practical purposes, however, active exploration in
Ghana has stopped, and with Phillips relinquishing its acreage most of the
offshore area (70,000 sq. km.) is likely to revert to the Government by the
end of 1983.
Government Strategy
62.      Faced with increasing economic problems partly because of high costs
of petroleum imports, the Government attaches high priority to the development
of domestic energy resources and wishes to minimize the cost of energy inputs
to the economy.
63.      In the petroleum sector, the Government has decided to take an active
role in rekindling and accelerating exploration, particularly given the
current problems facing the petroleum industry worldwide. Its past ad hoc
approach to awarding exploration acreage within a legal framework that was
antiquated was ineffective in obtaining a level of exploration commensurate
with Ghana's potential. It has therefore engaged in a full exploration
promotion effort aimed at attracting foreign companies to undertake
exploration by developing new leads through acquisition of new seismic data
and conducting a basinwide evaluation using both new and old data, providing a
modern petroleum legislative framework and strengthening sub-sector
institutions. To this end, the Government has negotiated a 7,300 km
speculative seismic survey (at an estimated cost of US$7.3 million) with
Geophysical Services, Inc. (GSI), of the US, with no outlay by Ghana. Also,
with financing under advances from the PPF amounting to US$715,000, Government
consultants (RRI) have begun to retrieve, review and interpret past geological
and geophysical data, much of which is damaged or missing because of a lack of
storage facilities or essential equipment. The Government would also like to
complement the GSI survey by an additional survey (1,000 km) to enable further
evaluation of the South Tano area recently relinquished by Phillips
Petroleum. Although GSI will market its data in accordance with the terms of
its agreement with the Government, the Government intends to closely
coordinate its promotional activity with GSI. All of the new seismic data
(including GSI's) will be evaluated by the Government's consultants and
integrated with existing data in a comprehensive geological and geophysical
package which will be used as the basis for defining and evaluating
concessions. Before bidding for acreage, companies will receive the revised
law and model contract and will have to purchase the relevant geological and
geophysical data from GSI and the Government.
64.      Ghana's future energy situation also encompasses promising options in
the renewables field. There is potential for development, particularly of
small and mini hydro sites in the central highlands of the Volta Region, and
in the southwestern part of the country. Improved forest management and more



- 19 -
efficient methods of charcoal production could significantly enhance wood-
based supplies. Simple solar energy technologies such as crop driers could
contribute to significant reductions in post-harvest food losses which are
currently estimated at 20% of gross food production by small farmers. The
Government intends promoting this potential.
The Association' Role
65.      The Government's strategy in the energy sector is basically sound.
The Bank Group's previous lending in the energy sector has focussed
exclusively on the power sector. As part of its strategy of reducing Ghana's
heavy dependence on imported oil, the Government has sought the Association's
support for initiatives in exploration for, and development of, indigenous
hydrocarbon resources and strengthening of sub-sector insitutions. The
Association's involvement in this project would help the Government to attract
and increase foreign private oil company activity in petroleum exploration,
and in improving the Government's knowledge and use of the country's other
energy resources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
66.      The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA energy
sector mission to Ghana in April/May 1980 and appraised in August 1981.
Following a change in Government in December 1981, the project was again
reviewed in January 1983. Credit negotiations were held in Washington on
April 11-15, 1983. The Ghanaian delegation was headed by the PNDC Secretary
for Fuel and Power. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of
this report, and a supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III.
Since this is a technical assistance credit, no Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared.
Project Objectives
67.      The primary objectives of the project are to rekindle interest and
accelerate petroleum exploration in Ghana. It would entail collection,
processing and evaluation of all past exploration data, acquisition of some
new data as well as evaluation of new seismic data to be acquired under a
7,300 km seismic survey financed by a private geophysical company. This work
would provide the first countrywide assessment of the petroleum prospects in
Ghana, essential to intensifying petroleum exploration in the country. The
project would also aim at strengthening the technical capabilities of the
proposed Ghana National Petroleum Corporation and the National Energy Board,
thus assisting in the efficient development and management of the country's
energy resources.



- 20 -
Project Description
68.      The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) Petroleum Exploration Promotion.
Under this component consultants (200 man-months) would be
retained to assist in:
(i)    retrieving, reviewing and interpreting existing
geological and geophysical data, including a basin source
rock analysis, and a comprehensive stratigraphic study of
available well information;
(ii)   evaluation of all data generated by t-e seismic survey to
be carried out by GSI and integrating it with existing
data;
(iii)  acquisition and evaluation of 1,000 km of new data in the
Tano offshore area recently relinquished by Philips
Petroleum Company;
(iv)   collection and evaluation of new data on the Tano Tar
Sands area, including data from some 75 km of seismic
lines and samples from 5 core holes;
(v)    revision of the country's petroleum legislation and the
formulation of draft model petroleum exploration and
production agreements;
(vi)   preparation of a promotional package for the oil industry
and organization of bidding by oil companies on acreage
open for exploration;
(vii)  negotiation of exploration contracts with oil companies;
(viii) monitoring the activities of operating oil companies and
integrating the data they furnish into existing knowledge
of the basin;
(ix)   monitoring the activity at Saltpond and if necessary
completing the Saltpond reservoir engineering study;
(b)  Assistance to the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
As part of the exploration promotion effort, the project would
fund the services of geological, geophysical and petroleum
engineering experts who would reside in Ghana for one to two
years and advise GNPC on a day-to-day basis with regard to
petroleum matters as well as provide on-the-job training. The
project would also provide for training abroad of about six to



- 21 -
eight Ghanians in petroleum geology, geophysical, engineering,
economics and law (short-term courses); three students for an
eighteen month diploma course, and one Ghanian for a two-year
post graduate course in petroleum geology and engineering. This
training program will be finalized by consultants to GNPC, and
would have to be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01
(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). The project also
includes funds to extend an existing building, and provide for
storage facilities for well cores and samples as well as
equipment for reproducing and storing seismic sections and well
logs;
(c)  Assistance to the National Energy Board.
This component would fund technical assistance services of
energy economists (36 man-months), renewable energy specialists
who would reside in Ghana for up to one year, as well as short
term visits of other economic and engineering experts (10 man-
months) who would provide on-the-job training to NEB staff and
assist the Board in specific tasks, including the following:
(i)    Establishment of an energy information center which will
comprise of a computerized energy statistical data base
and an energy library;
(ii)   Preparation of a work plan for investments in the
renewable energy sector;
(iii) Carrying out a petroleum pricing study to determine
wholesale and retail prices, and mechanism for adjusting
these prices;
(iv)   Carrying out a natural gas utilization study, including an
evaluation of potential domestic markets;
(v)    Carrying out other studies that will serve as the basis
for drawing up a long-term energy plan for Ghana; and
(vi)   Development of safety and other regulations covering
petroleum exploration and production activities, and the
establishment of procedures for inspecting and monitoring
such activities.
The terms of reference for some of these studies were discussed
during negotiations. The Government agreed that it would prepare and discuss
the work plan for investments in renewable energy with the Association prior
to December 31, 1985, including plans for securing foreign currency support
for the investment program. The project would include funds for pilot
demonstration projects which would be required in order to prepare the
investment program. The project would also include the provision of
equipment, library material and training. The training component would



- 22 -
include the preparation of specialized material by the resident experts to be
used in Ghana, as well as training of Ghanaians abroad. The final training
program will be prepared by the experts funded under the project.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
69.      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties which are not
applicable, is estimated at US$12.0 million equivalent, of which about US$11.0
million, or 92%, would be foreign exchange. The cost estimates include
physical contingencies of 10% on all components, except for the seismic survey
for which a firm price will be negotiated (Para 71). Price contingencies have
been computed based on an increase of 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for
1985 and 6.0% for 1986. Total contingencies amount to about US$2.8 million,
representing 31% of base line costs or 23% of total project costs. The cost
per man-month of consulting services is estimated at US$16,000, for the
petroleum sector consultants and US$12,000 for economic and other experts,
including international travel, subsistence and overhead. This is acceptable,
taking the high level of specialized expertise involved and prevailing costs,
particularly in the petroleum sector. The proposed IDA credit of US$11.0
million equivalent would finance the foreign exchange component. The credit
would be made to the Government, which would make the proceeds available to
the MFP. The credit would be refinanced if this project is followed by a
petroleum production project financed by a Bank loan. Local costs, estimated
at US$1.0 million would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
70.      The Ministry of Fuel and Power, through its Technical Division
(paras. 44 and 55) would be responsible for implementing the proposed
project. MFP would consult the Association on the staffing of the division
and the unit. Their responsibilities would be gradually transferred to the
National Energy Board and the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation when they
are established (before the end of 1983). The staff of these institutions
would be assisted initially by a number of resident experts to be financed
under the project. This would include petroleum geologists and engineers with
considerable experience in the oil industry. Also, exploration consultants
would continue to assist in the evaluation and integration of data submitted
by oil companies. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.      The contracts for the construction of facilities and for the
acquisition of equipment (estimated to cost less than US$150,000 each) would
be awarded following price quotations by at least three qualified contractors
or suppliers. Work on the Tano Tar Sands would be carried out under a seismic
and a drilling contract, estimated to cost about US$350,000 each. Given their
small size both contracts would be awarded on the basis of limited
international tendering. Given the small size of the contract and the costs
of mobilization and demobilization, the contract for the acquisition of
seismic data in the Tano area (1,000 km) will be negotiated directly with GSI,
which is currently undertaking, on its own, a 7,300 km seismic survey in



- 23 -
offshore Ghana. In these circumstances, it is likely to be less costly than
following ICB procedures, and it would enhance the quality of and strengthen
the Government's promotional efforts in the sector. Consultants and other
experts for the project acceptable to the Government and the Association,
would be selected in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants, and would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. (Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
72.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works - 50% of total expenditures;
(b) seismic survey - 100% of foreign expenditures;
(c) supply of equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures;
(d) renewable energy demonstrations projects - 100% of foreign
expenditures)
(e) consultant services - 100% of foreign expenditures; and
(f) training - 100% of foreign expenditures .
In order not to delay implementation of the project, it is proposed that a
part of expenditures for the legal component incurred after January 1, 1983,
not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, be financed retroactively. The proceeds
of the Credit are expected to be fully disbursed four and a half years after
Credit effectiveness.
A.ccounting, Auditing and Reporting
73.      The Ministry of Fuel and Power would keep separate accounts for the
project components. Once the NEB and the GNPC are established, these accounts
would be transferred to them and continue to be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Government and the Association. Audit reports would be
submitted to the Association no later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The Technical Division in the MFP and eventually the GNPC and
the NEB, would submit quarterly and annual reports on implementation of the
project in a format acceptable to the Association. They would also submit a
Project Completion Report not later than six months after the closing date.
(Section 3.07 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risk
74.      The most immediate benefit of the project would be that the retrieval
and reevaluation of the geological and geophysical data, together with
revision of the legal and contractual framework, and the training and the
expertise to be provided, would permit the Government to rekindle and
accelerate petroleum exploration in the country and obtain work commitments
commensurate with the country's potential. Any ensuing exploitable
hydrocarbon discovery would have a significant positive impact on the



- 24 -
country's economy. The Saltpond reservoir engineering study could lead to
investments that would increase productivity of the field and economic
benefitNto the country.  The assistance to NEB would enhance the Government's
knowledge of the energy sector and help promote the use of renewable energy
sources.
75.      A general risk associated with the project is that delays may occur
in hiring qualified expatriate personnel and difficulties experienced in
recruiting and retaining competent local staff.  Past experience under the PPF
projects has shown that the risk of delays in hiring expatriate consultants is
not great. With regard to local staff, the legal status of the GNPC will
permit it to recruit and retain qualified staff. Staff who would receive
training will be required to execute bonds obliging them to serve in Ghana for
specific periods. The specific risk associated with the geological and
geophysical work under the project is that the petroleum potential of Ghana
may not be attractive enough for companies to invest in exploration. Given
the results of past exploration in the region, this risk is considered
acceptable. There is no special risk associated with the other components of
the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the committees provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III of this Report.
I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment:
Washington D.C.
May 5, 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1
GHANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEEAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            238.5                                  MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      62.3               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTMTE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  200.0       270.0      420.0                1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       99.9       252.8      258.1                610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 6804.0        8614.0   11679.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.3         29.1       35.9                 28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        22.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          70.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        28.5        36.1       47.4                 54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    104.0        139.4      181.6                129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.5        45.8       46.7                 46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                          52.9        51.6       50.6                 51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.7        2.7                  2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               4.4         2.4        3.0                  2.8                      2.8
URBAN                               9.2         4.6        5.1                  5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BlRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.8        49.3       48.3                 47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.9        20.3       16.5                 15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         3.3        3.3                  3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         8.3       33.5/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.5        4.47.
.OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           93.0       101.0      82.0                  90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.8        97.5      85.0/1C               93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           42.9        50.6      44.4T7                54.8                     71.9
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.6        16.6      14.97E                17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.6        24.6       19.3                 23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.7         44.6      49.5                  51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           142.9       121.6      102.8                118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .-        35.0      35.0/d                  *-                     59.1
URBAN                                ..        86.0      86.0/d                  ..                     83.1
RURAL                                ..        14.0       14.0/d                 ..                     39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        55.0      56.0/d
URBAN                                ..        92.0      95.O*/-d
RURAL                                ..        40.0      40.O/d
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN          21600.0     12914.5/f  9922.5/c             14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5430.2/e    1065.6/f   605.8/c              2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1287.9       756.1     660.1/c              1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                                .        772.4     830. 7o               430.8                    538.3
RURAL                                ..       886.8     734.77I              3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                   ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVFRAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                .          4.7
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           .         .
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



- 26 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  2
OHANA   80AL INDICATORS DATA SHEST
GHANA                           RFEREINCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4GES
- MOST RCINT ESTIMATE=
MOST RECZNT           MIDDLZ INCCMZ            MIDDLZ INCOME
1960  lb    1970 |b ESTIMATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
1DUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYi     TOTAL                 38.0         64.0      71.0                     83.3                     88.7
MALE                  52.0        73.0       80.0#±                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                25.0        54.0       62.0 ±                  80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         14.0      36.0/i                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   9.0        21.0       45.07T                  19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 3.0        18.0       28.0                    11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.6          23.3        3.3/c                   4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.4         29.6      27.6/c                   38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          16.2         17.0      20.77c                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        27.O0j       30.2         *-                    35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.6       6.Sc                   31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         42.7         81.6     106.1                     71.6                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.l/h        1.9       4.4                     17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  30.0         34.0      30.5                     19.1                     31.5
UINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           2.2        0.l/c                   0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2918.8       3421.2    4326.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.6         42.1      41.5                     36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.0         58.0      53,0                     56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0         17.0      20.0                     17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.9         39.7      37.0                     37.0                     26.0
MALE                                 50.0         46.6      43.9                     46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                               36.0         33.0      30.4                     27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.2        1.3                     1.3                      1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF IOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     307.0                    507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0                   200.6                     178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ''           ''     156.0                   323.9                     403.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     130.0                   203.6                     285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           ..         ..                      ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                      ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicatore depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /a Ages 6 and over;  /f 1964;  /A Primary
education covers ages 6-11 years and secondary ages 12-19 years, earlier data for primary covers 6-15
years and secondary 16-19 years.
May, 1981



- 27 -                                                                   AN14EX I
DgFtITINS  F SCLA   UMCATItSPage    3
batan:  Although the data are drass  fros, souce   werily Ijudged the mea  athoritative and reliable, it shold als  be noted tbat they may net be itotr-
satiaIiIy comparable becase of the tack of stAnd.sofod defisitiona an -cncPts oed by different countLries L .o.IIlettog the data.  The dtaar,soe
thelees. usful to descibe  rdr  of mn1itode, indicate treads. end cbaacteiee cortaa major differen-e  betee-                     cunris
The Leoec  top   te )te  sanech          c--ty grot   orbth  obj.ct c--ty and(2)   co..utry 00...0 witb someht bigher averge incoe thea the  -ootry soop
of  hesobeocooir  fenCet for    Sigh tocme 011 tpres  groop shr  0iddlo inco-    ortb Africa and Kiddle fast" is chose  beoccee of stroger
soot-1c -Iai offloition).  In the  eeec  groop data the averges are ppolatioc weighted aeitmetic moos for Each inditator ad show  only  h.es
majority o he ca Ie  to a scop ha  dec  fat tht iniao.Since lbscover.oc of contie   mogbeidicator  depesda on the avilabili~ty of dens
sed toout' unfrmiaticmsth   necmd in reistigavrae  of one Indicator to soohe.  Ths vrge  or   ny  sef1tol intepering the  auno
one indicato  at atime anag ths c..trey and rferc..ce groups.
ARA  thousand eq.bm.)                                                                           .. Prlation ton  fep ite  Sod -total, uran.ndrra                . aoplanf    ftntal,
TotL.  - Tosol  -aracere   cospin legiad ares sod iol1od waes1979 dato.                           urban, and rorsl) dinided by their repetiesmr of hospital beds
dAric.ltural - Encinste of aratas   rcs seed toprscily orpe-a Loly                                acolable in pulic ed  riat  genern1 sd speclaitned hompissi sndre
for crops, pastoro-, markcc ood kitchen grden  or to lie fall- ; 1970 dais.                    bhbilitati ... cenira.  ge-pituin are estbliabmets peraetiy staffe
by at leas.t one phyaftina. Fetablihbson providing principally onete-
GOP toRI CAPITA (US)) - GNP per cptonioe at carrcn  narkt prices. -1l-                              d-is  caoe are not inclded,  Rloca  hovpinls.l  hoeenr, maclode bh-it"
oslanad by- nae  ooen -ntobed us had Sash Atlas (1978-Of basin); 1960,                            an  mdlicetrno  permanntly etaffed by a physician  (but bya
1909  and 191dos                                                                                medIca    .nus t. noemidwife. ell.) shih offer in-p.tient accos
davies and prov&Ideaulined rungs of medIcal facilitia.  fosass
KNSRCY CONSC9OPTION Pf0 CAPITA -. A-oa1 -o-optico o  cosrcaeegy (coal                               ticni poepensuro  hositlsf                 VW.o~     priacipal/genersi hospital.,
ood lignite, pefoion  eaao  gas and byde-,nalrad geatheral e1lc-                                  and r-r1 hprI.: loca  o  rra  hospitals sad madlsl and mateaity
scicity) In  iarn   fca  eiv_le_  Per capita; 1960, 1970. cod 1979                                centers.  Specishised hospitals are included oely andes  ' tssi.
data.                                                                                           Adaieeions Per    .....ita  led - Ttni oubte  of edminsiu_  to or dahr
rlon hoepitats ivided b the somber of hod..
POPULATtION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Totte  PoonlIation, fid-jToa   theot       -. hoa  Jaly 1; 1980, 1970, and 1980              H0USING
daa                                                                                          A-esg  Sine, or  cus Iod (peron ....    ..      Ihed) -total.   1 oras  so  lra1-
Irb n Pplocito (percent of total   -  al   f orbo  to tota  popolalian;                       A  oshl   ossso      rooo   nitsl    oaoelivIng qunctors
diffeIren    efnsin   ofohrot             a ffect- oorabilitty of deco                          and sheic nets meals.  A boader ot lodger may orsy oot he loladed In
us -g cnoties  1960, 1970,  -td 1950 dote.                                                  the house hold for scatinnicl1 torposen.
Posata   Prjcin-vrgbe-to   esr   erco-ttl   ta, and rors1 - avars.esm
Pocpalsilon he yro  2000 - farc--  popadlacto  projocio   atbue.n10                             hra   rsn   e  roLoalube  and r-rI occupiedL   ..svetioaa
total popo1acios by age end aco ad thi  nrtality  and Ieillity toe.l                         dilinga. respectively.  DOweihlgss.c lode ne-emuo   tutrned
Proj-ccian, parameter  for utallty'i    ..ce  comprin  cf tIter I Ir  5505                   unoccupied par;ta.
leg lIfe eopoccocy uc hircl i areaaio.goith c tncy   prtpics iv_om                         Access to f.lecccs   (percen.t of deeliings) - ntacl, urban, sad enro  -
lose, ad fealollfcro)  cany nobiheio  us72.  per.The paca-                     Co--vtioseI d- hings cith e1-tiricity to lining qoarters as perosotage
ntenfor frtiltty  -oc aloe ha-,te cbeec . leel  assuing dectiar in                          of  tot1, oct0. aed rocl  dello  repecively.
fer tility occording to income lo-c  en  post fnhly Pill,",g pecfor"scr
Mlch costry Is the- asuignd 000 of Lbhesei clot coblaioa. of sorcoity                    EDUCATION
and f-ecility teeadn Pvc p-oj-cioc p,,rp..e.                                               Ad_justed SEollmeolt lotion
Stat ion.ry coruhotban -' Ic a  tteiaeay pcpnlatiaa  there Isn  groe-h ni-c                     Primary sch-o1 - totnl, male and female - Crosa Ltota, male and fessl
sLoe birvb cate Is rqaah L tohlo  death can, ad ahut the age           L uia ,-r  cv-           orrolnens of nIl ages at the primary leve  as p-cestages of respective
mil. c_nt-n.  Thou is -chledoly-           fc  focthlityron doc'lc  cc                        pimac  schoi-oge popal.isi.no; normaily iocladen childreo agd 6-11
thecplcn         lnl  fuic oct -epcod-cticstoe   he- re-h               ra  o                    er  bat adjusted for differe-  lengths of prfmnry edotaion; for
ofwonorelacaitef .cac-ly.  The nta-oo-    popatatios nine-a                              coteli.  wit  unvb      a   dscetia    -11m t nay enceed10pect
enctinacd as the haste cf the pejected ch-rot-ri-tic  of the popoacco                           niece no_ pupIls erbelow  or above tho oflicia1 sohou  age.
ho the year 2000, end the rate of declir ef fertility ruce to replace-                       hecaodsry school _ Ltoca,male nod fv-lr - Computed an shoe; .....ndsry
sotlend.                                                                                      vda_sttonrsqsicsn    iea...t f our yors of approved primar  inatroction;
Tear  cttacory P..p..aion Israce -          The yroe obeh-     cosr  papulatiot                   provides ge_,eJI. ocasonl   oceaher teaming Oaec..ctiosfor pupils
nl..ior w.IyJ~.-ill h roachcd.                                                                   n-aah1y of 12 to 17 peocs of ege; torrespond..c.oener   geseraly
Per no. ha. - Mid-y-ac popalati-c Pc oqoae kilsmtcr (100 hecturen) af                       ttcoa   oo a             (perc..ntof s...edery) -  o-atisl..I instictit oos
sao   ea  18.17  and 1979 data..tco                                                         tcncl  industrial. or other programs  hith epe..to indpaod-
PeLs  h.ariactul  _sd-fnaodn   hn,to    g uira   adeu   or a  depsscteoto ofueodrlsiutn.
only; 1960, 1971 and 1979 dote.                                                            Pupil-teache  redo  - prinary,..ad ...c.oday - Total otodrots entiled io
PooeicAge utructors (prc ) -4Cldo    0l   ere.veigoc(1                                      penry  nd neoeda   level  divtded by eaesof tee charn in the
64 roo-)  sod retirad y(-pv  adovr  on pIcear   fnlya   oa                                       ornotig levls
lotion; l1t6. 1970.  ed19.00 dos.Mat hitrayrte  (peren) - ltreadults fable no read and wrise)
Pop.letien Growth Sate (percent ) - toto1- Oaooal groeth rates of cote1 oid-                       npes--rge at tota1 edalc popsnian aged 10 yer  and over.
yoa. Popsltiou for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 197-0-SO
Posait   coh Sate (prc-t) -rhar -ao.-I greeh ratco of aches popa-                      CONSUMPTI0ON
Iat Io.s for 1950-60, 1960-70. asd 1970-80.                                                  P..se..e  farel (per thosnad pocolatioo7   Peaseogss cats  -opetar acto
Clode Birth Sate (per thousand) - bu-uliho  birtchs per thousond of sid-year                      aco seatclg lestecsgetoroo  eolodcs -atl..c... hearon and
poottln   160. 197. od 1900 data,                                                        milltoy vshitl:ten.. gt  - .
Crud  Oec  Steh     prtono)-  ooldah   o  thoanned  of aid-year                                S'dio             'Pelr   (rvthoasced popolatl)- All1 types of  eevr   o   oi
popoIatioc; 1960. 1970, aod 1980 deta.                                                          brondsocsso Ena  public per thacoand of popslstles;  -nldo   t
iroun M orductiloen  gc- A-srao   naht  fdoafhtero a oosa   ill boatI. niesdrcivrs is co-otrien and 10 years obes registaio    fradit
he  vralrrdocFtv  period if ohs ecpr-i_nceopev aeseii  fec-                                     eowni   ffect; data tee recat years mey  -o  be  ope l  since
stlycce;osaty           0 too'"-peer averges esdtno ha 1961, 1970, nod logo0nes  c-tncie  abolished licanio.S
PanIr Ply nnngI   Aceetrn  Ioc    (tbo....sdo)   A- An 1a tunhr of accptors                     TV  oci-Lver  (per tho..n.od  -uelation) - TVL.. cciv-a for breadoass to
ot  icth-coucrol devices  ude  -auicc  of eaieol  uniy          l         -ole   prgrn.genrl,public per tho sed Ppoplation; sotlade. vohitased TV rcL-oer.
Pamiy Psnetl -Osor  (rrceo  ofmarIe aca) - P-rctage to marie                          to coerssue i       n peyars  Iba  registration ot TV set  su  io effect
soe   f child-bearieg 5gO (15-44 yearn) ohs as  bilth-co-tr     devIces to               es_epec   irultin(pee thousnd esrulatios) - Showsh -baerg  clr-
all meovied oomeo it  am  ogo o p.                                                             cuoinof 'daily general itotr-s  nonpuper' dsf ads  apeiedical
Pubictin  evted primarily no recorde   genra  ss,It in  -anideee
FOOD ANlD 97IITIoO                                                                                 to be tdoiy.fi      t  pers  slatta fe      ek
loden at Plond P-d-ctio- P-errCps   16-fh             - Iede  vf Pee capita asocol             Cona A-nsa  Attudt-c  perCapnto peYa  - .Sand tohe sates of
Prod         I -o"f"l fn  csodities.  Pvod-cilo   eolacased and fv-d aod                        iiolkt  sold daring the peso. inclsdlog ed .ss.c  to driv- to riunmas
loo  clnorya  hbnie.  foiC diie   cove  primary goods(.g. naacaead sobieuc.
i"sced of  sgar) obich are i1 rdlb          ..a . co in nutrients (e.g. coffc sod
ten ore rocloded).  Aggregat  praductioo of eah coo.ctry Io base.d 00idORS PORCE
na ttese  average peud-ce  price  - ighto; 1961-65, 1970, aed 1900 data.                     Total Lah- Porte (nh-aado) - Ecoconloelly cotivo p-rnooc  ltoloding
Pe ar Isa sryof cs1orion (peroro  of -rsscsc) - c,oond  rsste   oce a-uepod                                                     ba  eetc hegbosesive. s-tde-s   t.
energEy oqai-slot of ne  food sappli- available ie coct pe   apt                               ccsig poultic f all oge.  Dfleietiooins tocrto  tu. tIs.r
pee doy.  A-oihlel supplies canprise doottcpoi            oin  inpo-t  Ic..                    sac comparable; 1980, 1970 cod 190  dae
esporto;.-edohgncoec    Net napplles eocadc asisat feed, noeds,                                Pml   peco) - Poa   labor focesoprcng  of sotal labor torte.
q-sericte  ase.d Ilo  foo   pcc log. sod loosen to distrtioctiae.         Lte                    giotae(ecn)-tbos forc  in fa s,"  forestry, huntiug and
noon oreh eatiscoediby PAO basd oe pipsiologitch  tnd  fa          toa   cl-                     fluting an per-Seeg  of toa  lbor fre1960, 1970 ead 1980 data
ciysohelh ce eingcoloeetl tpe-toe,bdyeihnage                                                  Inuty(ece)-"bor force Le miing. coneotb                         mnfacturing
aod so_ dietribstloi o   aplai o.edolslt 11 percent for ..... at                                 and electricity, outer sod gases percetage of totsl laber torte;
heonohld henri; 1981-65. 1970 aod 197) data.                                                    1960, 1970 sod 1900 dots.
Percap ita  -spply of,,rocei   aon  per ~day) -             -Pot -voteo  of Per capi,.         PerticiPaieSte1,,:::. (rret        ou.ml,ad fea-le-Participation  Or
cot nopply of food Per day.  Net -sppiy of food it defioed us abcvc.  R.-                      accvtvcuccqae   sttl   ale, and femal  lato  forte so
Ilieer: t.efor.1 ol .o.otri-n  ntablishod hy 01DA provIde for miviompecc"tuge  of coral, male and feselo pepulucion of oil sgero-pactivly;
alloocce  of...  61 aoeo  ctch Pr.ctrie, prr day -e   0gaso   snlad                             160. 0970, sad 1900 data.  These  -t bone  00LO,'s parricipetius rates
palso pse,of ehih 10 ot-s  ohejd le ocbio  procet.  These utoe.d-                               el-cl     sTe-so   structur-     tte  -Pop oe  and long time trend.  A
ards  c   hoo   b toeo  75 grass o  total pr-oei  and 23lgros  ofto   e                                         Lste   r  trot national soarcen.
.onina  protooe an an -or-v  for Lbr oat.  cvond by Phi It tuThe Tud                         foeolc  apodooy Sais - Ratio of pepaletian ooder 15 end 65 nodoe
World Pond l-vy; 1961-65, 1970 cod 19)7 dota.                                                  to tho total taho  force..
ris-d fran  oislu cod Pate   ofasprday; 1961-65, 1970 aed 1977 dota.                       INOSiO  DI0Sl8T1IcUIO
Child (gs1-4> loath F-ce(crc sh=cad)p  A- cos  deaths per ctoaud loPreeaso  Piae  nee(bcth In cash nod lied) - seceivd by richent
age group 1-h y-e.' to chlldcee to chin age 9v-p. for nest developlog tcs.p...,rihs  2   eren  pooront 20 percnt, and pooreot 40 perceut
tries dare derived free life tehie; 1980, 1970 o-d iggo deso.                                  of ho.sehelds.
HstaTH                                                                                         POVETYs TAOiSTr 010UP0
Lo!e Ooecccra  Bit         Acer) - eege o-h-r  f year  of life r-niong                         Tbs follosiog cocimetes ore voty sepro-isatmesue  of pusersylels
at hib; 1980  190ad 1000 dat.                                                               _ed should bc Inerpreted etch coneidereble  ette
toatIot"ly St  (err thoancnd) - A-eco  deaths  fl ifattn ood-s o-  yea.nlae.bosePvet  noetvl( er..Peit.) - aebse aed ral.-
of te  e   h-ssao    hive hirh; 1961. :1970 and 1990 darn.                              Aboospscyicm   ee   stha 1icme 1a below   hich o  iminial
Access to Oafs Wate  (eee  af rpsh-loio) -talurhb. and  ur1 - Ns-                                nticisnally adeq-a  diet plu e.ss..octal son-fend rqurmet   to tc
her of people (totsl. achan. sod rarsi) wishreseo.able  cest tat                               aftcsldsble.
ester supply(lcdo   treatsd surf. ateters or asrtreld ban sncnntnieoted                      Eotimated ReIlaive Poet   aoelvl  f1prccl-arbee ad esrL -.
eseLoc   nnchtfrnprocaniled booehetes, eptiego. end naoinarY vel) as-ua  rlativeL  p-vaty  Ioea    e  to one-tRhirdo;                                   vvgepecpt
pacnaEu. of the cepcive porulaslos.  In an urba  araapublic                                 pesna    -nm   of the country.  Orbasleve  is derived frya the .rur
f.tuoct  ornadpnai1.. toeo not mactu tban 298   atra from a  eo           aybe_lve  sub sdjuntmeo  fror higher coast of liviog to uranarna
cossidred as briog nithie reasonable acsso   hs  es.                   c L area             Eati-tid Popolto  Saln Msolts Povety Iacem  Leve  (percet-sha
reasn...ble  -nces  .o.Id Imply that the heoneseifeorntrs of the houshold                      ud rural      F - Pecet of pplst iee  foran and rural) she arL'beh
do nott have to epen . dlsproportioeset part of the dey to ftochiag the .r.
family,  wtr ueds
poronetuore of th.ir respetive pepolstL-n   fecret  disposal nay tnclsd
the n1a-icn,n sad diaponal. with orcinot trea-tmen. e  Ins  masst
sodente-vete  by water-toro  ystn        r these e.   f pit prjivia sod simi-
Poeaecto pe  Pbalci   -Popolatien divided by ... ba  of prsctiaing physt-                                                     Eraamic sand Seri  aleta DvlosL
utn eIf ld Pa  amdical ecboal ne usloe-ity level                                                                       fEo-Lm  da-lysia she Peojssttur  Dslertfesn
Pesulanton ear flr FanPrso  - Psplhatian divided byesmbr of Pra..tioog                                                                            fBay tWO2
mal:,and toatol gr-dsata ossa . atalt sneer, practical esess  and
smig snlats



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
GHANA ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980:  US$420
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, Constant Prices)
Cedis Min.               %                     19t0-80
GNP at Market Prices                    37,778.6              100.00                   0.25
Gross Domestic Investment                2,188.4                5.79                  -8.40
Gross National Saving                    1,934.8                5.12                  -7.39
Current Account Balance                   -253.6               -0.67                     --
Export of Goods, NFS                     3,482.7                9.22                  -6.25
Import of Goods, NFS                     3,772.5                9.99                  -6.70
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1978                         Labor Force, 1970
Cedis Min.               %               Min.         %
Agriculture                             12,741.5               60.71          1.787         57.2
Industry                                 2,523.8               12.03           .485         15.3
Services                                 5,720.8               27.26           .861         27.5
Total                                   20,986.1               100.0          3.133        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
-------------------Central Government-------------------------
Cedis Min.      % of GDP 1980       Cedis Min.   % of GDP 1981
Total Revenue and Grants                3,279.3          8.64              4855.3             8.31
Exceptional Receipts                           0             0                  0                 -
Total Expenditure and Net Lending    7,985.9            21.03              9702.9            16.60
Overall Deficit (-)                    -4,706.6        -12.40             -4847.6            -8.29
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975      1976    1977       1978    1979    1980    1981
---------(Million Cedis Outstanding End Period)---------------
Money and Quasi-money                     1,387      1,903   3,044    5,131   5,942   7,949  12,029
Bank Credit to Public Sector              1,219      1,966   3,203    5,636   6,537   8,481  14,043
Bank Credit to Private Sector               306        385      560       739     796      940   1,342
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as
% of GDP                               26.3       29.2    27.3      24.4    22.6    20.9    20.6
General Price Index (1977=100)             29.6       46.2   100.0    173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6



- 29 v
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-80)
1979       1980       1981 1/                            USS Min.        Z
(US$ Million)
Cocoa Beans              596.8      62.35
Trade Balance               164.4        84.3        1.2         Cocoa Products             87.4       9.13
Exports                 1041.1    1,159.5       766.3         Timber Logs                34.2       3.57
Imports                 -876.7   -1,075.2    -765.1           Timber Sawn                21.9      2.29
Timber Products             3.5        36
Invisibles (Net)                37       13.3       20.3         Gold                       86.3       9.02
Services                   -39       -70.1      -66.6         Diamonds                   12.3      1.28
Transfers                   76        83.4       86.9         Manganese                  13.3      1.39'
All Other Goods          101.5      10.61
Current Balance              27.4       -92.2    -155.8
Capital Accounts            177.9       155.3       74.4         Total                     957.2      100.0
Official Capital (Net)    196.8        133.9      119.0
Private Capital (Net)      -18.9        21.4      -44.6
Arrears payments           -90.5       -79.1      141.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER, 1981 3/
Others 2/                     55.0      -45.0      -97.2
US$ Min.
Overall Balance             169.8       -61.0      -35.4         Public Debt, Incl.
Gross International                                                 Guaranteed                     1,339.0
Reserves (End of Period)  193.0        197.0      148.0         Total Outstanding and
Disbursed M&LT                     955.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                                                                           7%
US$ = ¢1.15
Public Debt, Incl.
Since August 26, 1978                                              Guaranteed                          8.9
US$ - 02.75                                            Total Outstanding
and Disbursed                      8.9
IBRD/IDA LENDING (JANUARY 31, 1982)
IBRD       IDA
Outstanding
and Disbursed         128.8      110.6
Undisbursed               30.8       95.8
Outstanding, Inc.
Undisbursed           159.7      206.4
1/    Provisional estimates subject to change.
2/    Includes errors and omissions.
3/    Actual data not available.  Estimates only.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                              Amount (us$)
Credit    Fiscal                                                   Less Cancellation       1/
Number     Year             Borrower            Purpose        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                 104.5    89.9
531-GH      1975    Republic of Ghana   Oil Palm                        13.6      0.9
1122-GH     1975    Post & Telecom-       Telecommuni-
munications          cations           23.0               10.0
1180-GH     1975    Republic of Ghana   National Invest-
ment Bank         10.0               0.8
1181-GH     1975    Republic of Ghana   Ashanti Cocoa          14.0               0.7
1182-GH     1975    Republic of Ghana   Second Highway         18.0               1.4
1291T-GH 2/ 1976    Republic of Ghana   Agricultural
Development       21.0               6.0
901-GH      1979    Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                      19.0     14.8
1009-GH     1980    Republic of Ghana   Agricultural
Development               29.5      26.6
1029-GH     1980    Republic of Ghana   Third Highway                  25.0       9.9
1170-GH     1981    Republic of Ghana   Railway                        29.0      29.00
1327-GH 3/  1983    Republic of Ghana   CIMAO                           9.3       9.3
1342-GH 3/  1984    Republic of Ghana   Water Supply                    13.0     13.0
Total                                   190.5   228.3
of which has been paid                   41.4      2.7
Total now outstanding                   149.1   225.6
Amount sold                    0.4
of which has been repaid       0.4        0.0
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                   149.1   225.6
Total undisbursed                        18.9   103.5    121.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
3/   Approved but not signed.



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 2
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (Status as of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 531      Oil Palm Project; US$13.6 million Credit of March 5,
1975; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Planting programs have been satisfactorily completed with a total of
about 5,200 ha as per original target. Problems had been encountered in
finalizing acquisition of 1,000 ha of land needed to complete the project.
These were, however, solved even though compensation of farmers is lagging
behind. The project is now in the position to complete the planting program
of 5,200 ha. Problems of mill contract and related foreign exchange shortfall
were also resolved and a 15-ton ffb/hr oil mill has been constructed on sche-
dule and has been commisjioned. The construction program of workers' housing,
however, continues to be slow due to lack of building materials. A brick and
tile plant is now being installed which would help overcome the shortage of
building materials. The contract of IRHO, which was managing the project, was
extended by the Government up to March 1983 at the Government's expense.
Bridging financing with an advance under the Project Preparation Facility is
being considered until the Phase II project comes on stream, which is expected
by early next year.
Loan No. 1181       Ashanti Region Cocoa Project: US$14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project consists of replanting and maintaining hybrid cocoa in the
Ashanti Region. Cumulative planting to date is about 38,000 acres (excluding
abandoned farms), out of the combined Bank and BADEA appraisal target of
42,500 acres. The major difficulty met by the project's efficient management
has been insufficient farmer response due to an unattractive producer price
for cocoa. The project's planting program was also severely affected by the
1977 drought which caused heavy losses in newly replanted areas, and made a
second replanting in 1978 necessary. The project also faced problems of fuel
shortages, labor migration and procurement of nursery raw materials. In
October 1981, when the project had achieved about 91 percent of the appraisal
target, it was decided, with the agreement of the Government and the Bank, to
terminate planting activities and aim at consolidating the planted areas
through an appropriate maintenance program. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by end June 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 3
Loan No. 1291 -T    Upper Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976; Effective Date:
April 11, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has two principal aims: raising agricultural production
and hence farm income, and establishing permanent farm support systems. The
recent situation in Ghana, characterized by severe breakdowns in communica-
tions and services, severe shortages of most basic commodities, and budget
cuts, has severely affected the project. The problems have been compounded by
poor management performance which has led to inadequate maintenance of much of
the equipment, loose store controls and poor staff morale. The project is now
under new management and, following some revision and scaling down of objec-
tives, progress has been made in several important areas. However, in the
last year, the Government's inability to procure adequate quantities of ferti-
lizer, due to a severe shortage of foreign exchange, has severely affected
project objectives. The Government has procured about 43,000 tons of fertil-
izers for the whole country earlier this year and an adequate amount was
provided to the project.
Credit No. 1009    Volta Region Agricultural Development Project: US$29.5
million Credit of April 22, 1980; Effective Date:
March 31, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which is in its third year of implementation, seeks to
raise agricultural production and farm incomes in the Volta Region of Ghana
through the provision of basic agricultural services. The project is being
implemented by the Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture. A Farmers'
Services Company has been established and key project positions have been
filled. The project is being affected, as are all our projects in Ghana, by
the deteriorated economic situation. Particularly worrisome is its inability
to obtain fertilizer needs. The project distributed onLy 540 tons of ferti-
lizers in the 1982 cropping season, which was inadequate to meet the estimated
pre-project recurrent fertilizer needs of 7,000 tons. A part of the fertili-
zers ordered by the Government for the 1983 cropping season was made available
to the project.
Loan No. 1180       National Investment Bank Project:  US$10 million Loan
Credit No. 594      of December 23, 1975;  Effective Date:  March 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank (NIB) to help finance industrial, agro-industrial and tourism
development projects. The loan has progressed satisfactorily with about
US$0.1 million remaining uncommitted (to take care of price increases under
approved sub-loans) and approximately US$9.2 million disbursed. The insti-
tutional and procedural improvements introduced under the project have had
positive effects on NIB's operational performance. However, the deteriorated
economic situation has led to generally low production levels and the failure
of some projects. The quality of NIB's portfolio has suffered, and loan
arrears have now reached a level that jeopardizes the institution's viability.



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 4
Loan No. 1122       Telecommunications Project:  US$23 million Loan of June 10,
1975; Effective Date: January 23, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project execution has suffered delays-mainly caused by disruptions
due to political upheaval and by delays in civil works due to shortage of
building materials in the country and foreign exchange limitations for
import. Arrangements were made to import building materials such as cement
and steel utilizing Bank loan allocation; these have been received and build-
ing construction is in progress. Project completion is expected around June
1984, about five years behind schedule. An action plan has been prepared by a
recent supervision mission with the agreement of GPT and the Government to
ensure timely completion of the project. GPT's financial situation is unsa-
tisfactory and the Government has been urged to permit GPT to substantially
increase its tariffs which is long overdue.
Loan No. 1182       Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan and US$10
Credit No. 594million Credit, both of December 23, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
The project includes assistance to (i) Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
to strengthen maintenance management and planning, execute a four-year mainte-
nance program including comprehensive training, reconstruct 16 miles of road,
and study feder road needs; and (ii) the Bank for Housing and Construction,
with related technical assistance, to enable them to onlend to domestic
contractors. The output of GHA's force account maintenance has been disap-
pointing, because of a shortage of spare parts, supplies and fuel, as well as
delays in releasing Government's capital budget. BHC has transferred equip-
ment under hire-purchase arrangements to 28 contractors and approved sub-loans
to two quarry companies totalling US$6.8 million. The regravelling undertaken
by contractors is more satisfactory than GHA's work, but a substantial number
of contractors are in arrears in their repayments to BHC. The Third Highway
(Emergency Maintenance) Project provides further assistance. The road con-
struction component is expected to be completed in early 1983; the credit was
closed on March 31, 1983, but disbursements of credit proceeds are expected to
be completed in the next 2-3 months.
Credit No. 901      National Investment Bank Project:  US$19 milliom IDA
EEC/SAC No. 7       Credit and US$6 million EEC Special Action Credit of
October 26, 1979; Effective Date: May 14, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Under the project the Government of Ghana onlends to NIB US$24.2
million, of which US$12.2 million are being utilized to finance capital
investments, and US$12 million (including US$6 million EEC Special Action
Credit) to finance imported raw materials and spare parts. Beneficiaries are
manufacturing enterprises, agro-industries and related services. US$0.5
million will be utilized by the Government to finance consulting services for
its export program, and US$0.3 million are being utilized to finance technical



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 5
assistance for NIB. Forty-four working capital sub-loans totalling US$5.9
million and 17 capital goods sub-loans amounting to US$5.5 million have been
approved. Disbursements amount to US$4.0 million. The project suffers from
the same shortcomings as the previous one (Loan 1180). Implementation has
been delayed, mainly due the unavailability of foreign exchange matching funds
to be provided by the Government, and the Bank has recently agreed to waive
the matching funds requirement to accelerate disbursements.
Credit No. 1029    Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project:  US$25
million Credit of August 27, 1980, Effective Date:
November 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes reactivation of Ghana Highway Authority's (GHA)
road maintenance works through the provision of spare parts, equipment, and
related technical assistance to domestic contractors by a line of credit
through the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC).  The project also in-
cludes assistance to the domestic trucking fleet by the provision of spare
parts through BHC. Procurement of spare parts for GHA and domestic contractor
is proceeding satisfactorily and some equipment has been repaired preparatory
to resuming maintenance works; additional technical assistance has been re-
cruited to speed up repairs. BHC advisors are expected to be in place for the
second phase of their work in mid-1983. The output of maintenance works by
contractors is improving gradually.
Credit No. 1170    Railway Project:  US$29 million of July 20, 1981,
Effective Date: December 22, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has just begun.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENERGY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 15 months
(b) Project prepared by              : Government/Consultants
(c) Identification Mission           : April/May 1980
(d) Appraisal/Reappraisal Missions:August 1981/January 1983
(e) Negotiations                     : April 11-15, 1983
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness : July           1983
Section II:   Special Association Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Based on a pricing study, the Government will prepare a plan
of action and schedule of implementation on petroleum
product pricing for discussion with the Association by
December 31, 1984 (para. 47);
(b) Legislation setting up the Ghana National Petroleum
Corporation and the National Energy Board was discussed
during negotiations and agreement was reached on a timetable
for its establishment (paras. 44 and 55);
(c) Results of the Saltpond Reservoir Engineering Study will be
discussed with the Association as well as plans for further
development of the field (para. 58);
(d) The work programs for data collection and renewable energy
as well as plans for financing these investments would be
discussed with IDA before December 31, 1985 (para. 69).



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 7 pages
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Energy Project
The Renewable Energy Sector
1. Renewable Energy Resources
1.       Ghana is well endowed with renewable energy resources of which wood
and hydropower are the most important. Wood biomass energy supplies are
abundant in the High Forest Zone which covers 34% of the total land area.
Much of the remaining land is Savannah which has moderate tree cover.
Hydropower resources are also abundant. With the recent commissioning of the
160 MW Kpong plant, just over 50% of the country's surveyed potential capacity
of about 2,000 MW has been developed. A significant potential for minihydro
power is yet to be tapped for rural development but the economics of doing
this is still to be tested. Solar energy potential is good as most areas
receive well over 1900 hours of sunshine annually. Mean daily solar radiation
levels are between 380 to 470 cals/cm2. Wind regimes are moderate with
reasonable wind energy potential in areas such as the Accra plains which
experience mean annual windspeed levels of 6 to 10 km/hr.
2. (a) Forest Resources. Ghana has a total area of 24 million hectares with
two distinct ecological zones. The High Forest Zone covering approximately
34% of the land area, has equatorial climate, and is about 30% forested. The
Savannah Woodland Zone, comprised mostly of Guinea Savannah, amounts to about
65% of Ghana's land area, is covered by grassland and short-statured, fire-
resistant trees.  Over 95% of forests are communally owned.  Fuelwood and
charcoal are the main cooking fuel for more than 95% of Ghanaian households.
Consumption of fuelwood (including charcoal) increased from 7.5 million m3 in
1970 to an estimated 12.1 million m3 in 1979, implying an averaIe annual
growth rate of 5.4% and a 1979 per capita consumption of 1.07 m
3.       The concept of sustainable yield (or allowable cut) is used in
projecting forest resources and fuelwood requirementSIL Rough estimates show
an annual allowable cut of about 23 million m3 and a total fuelwood demand
(including that used for charcoal) of about 17 million m3. In addition to
fuelwood demand, the commercial forestry cut is not expected to exceed 6-7
million m3 by 1990. Ghana therefore is not likely to face serious forest
depletion that is threatening West African countries in the Sahelian zone.
Potential problems in the fuelwood subsector are regional scarcities of
fuelwood (in the extreme northeast) and inefficient production and transport
of charcoal leading to seasonal scarcities and rising prices in urban areas.
-        Allowable cuts of total wood are estimated on the basis of5 m3/ha/yr
for the forest zone and 2 m3 /ha/yr for the Savannah.



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 7
4. (b) Commercial Forestry Residues. While fuelwood and charcoal account for
the major proportion of Ghana's total wood cut (64% in 1975), less than one-
half of the remainder is transformed into lumber for domestic construction or
exports. The rest, equivalent to over 4 million m3 in 1975, is classified as
forest residues. While much of this "waste" wood is not commercially
recoverable as fuel, the social benefits of its recovery may well exceed the
private benefits in areas where deforestation and environmental degradation
are serious. The most promising options are probably producing briquettes
from milling waste and the direct burning of waste for steam and electricity
generation. (The latter was tried by African Timber and Plywood Ghana, Ltd.
which used mill waste in three steam driven turbines with a total capacity of
3200 KW).
5. (c) Hydropower. In addition to existing schemes at Akosombo (792 MW),
Kpong (160 MW) and the proposed 450 MW Bui project, 8 smaller sites have been
identified and studied to prefeasibility level on the Pra and Tano Rivers in
the Southwest; three small sites have been identified on the White Volta River
in the North, and one site has been identified on the Oti River as indicated
below:
Ghana's Identified Hydro Sites
Average
Capacity     Energy
Rivers and Sites                                      MW            GWH
Black Volta (Northwest)
Bui          450           1,175
Pra (South)
Awisam        88           156
Kojokrom      36           95
Abatumesu    63             165
Hemang        42           224
Tana (Southwest)
Asuoso        51           90
Sedukrom     26            66
Jomuro        26           69
Tanoso       34            131
White Volta (North)
Pwalagu       36           133
Pasinkpe      12           61
Bimbini       15           63
Oti (Northeast)
Juale                             193           710
Total                           1,077         3,138
Source: --



- 38 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 7
6.       Some additional river basins are being mapped and may produce up to
1,000 suitable sites in the micro- and mini-hydro ranges (10-1000 kW).
Topographical mapping, and data collection on rainfall, catchment area and
established runoff of 41 sub-basins have already been undertaken by the
Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation (AESC).
The use of mini- and micro-hydro installations might be viable,
compared to diesel, in rural areas that have low levels of consumption and are
too far from the national power grid for an extension to be economic. The
Central Power Commission of India is providing technical assistance and
financing for the first mini-hydro pilot scheme, which is located near Likpe-
Kukurantumi in the Volta Region. A 50-200 kW mini-hydro plant will be
installed on the Dayi river by mid-1983. Civil works on this project are
being done through self-help from communities in the Dayi river basin.
7. (d) Solar Energy Resources. Most parts of the country receive favorable
levels of solar insolation at well over 1900 hours of bright sunshine annually
(700 hours of sunshine during the wet season and over 1200 hours during the
dry season). Mean daily solar radiation levels vary across the country from
approximately 470 cal/cm2 (5460 W-hr/m2) in the upper region to about 380
cal/m2 (4410 W-hr/m2) in the eastern region. The radiation level increases
along the coastal areas. At present, solar energy uses are limited to
traditional applications such as sundrying, especially for preservation of
foodstuffs, commercial salt production in coastal areas, and lumber drying.
Most lumber mills rely on open air drying because conventional kilns are too
expensive and too large for their scale of operations. Passive solar
architecture is inherent in some traditional adobe dwellings in the northern
Savannah areas.
8. (e) Wind Energy Resources. The wind regime in Ghana is moderate (annual
mean windspeeds are about 6-10 km/hr.) Areas with more favorable windspeeds
are generally within the Savannah zones, i.e. (a) coastal Savannah (Accra
Plains) stretching from slightly west of Sekondi Takoradi to the Lower Volta
region, which is best suited for windpump installations; and (b) the fringes
of the forst zone in the Brong-Ahafo region stretching into the northern and
upper regions.
II. Government Institutions and Policies
9.       A number of Government and parastatal institutions are involved in
renewable energy development. The Forestry Commission and the Ministry of
Lands and Natural Resources are in charge of forestry development including
planning and implementing forest energy projects. In addition, the Home
Extension Unit of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare has been active in
adaptation and dissemination of more efficient stoves; the Architectural and
Engineering Services Corporation has undertaken hydrological surveys and is in
charge of civil works for the country's first mini hydropower project; and
the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research together with university
research groups have been active in developing and testing prototype solar
energy technologies. Appendix I shows the research being done by various
agencies in Ghana.



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 7
10.      Renewable energy development in the past has been held back by lack
of clear objectives and policies, inadequate coordination among Government
institutions, and inadequate follow-up by public and private organizations.
The economic decline of the past decade likewise had a strongly adverse
impact. In the wake of steeply rising costs of petroleum imports and the
country's weakened energy position, the Government has become more interested
in renewable energy development. While the Government is aware that energy
forms, such as mini- and micro hydro, solar and wind energy can be expected to
make only a minor contribution to meeting overall energy requirements, it
nevertheless considers these options important for meeting local energy
requirements and as a means of improving access of the rural sectors to a
broader mix of indigenous energy. Following discussions with IDA, the
Government decided on creating a National Energy Board, a single advisory body
to the Ministry of Fuel and Power (MFP), which would be responsible for, among
other things, coordinating activities and preparing a work program in the
renewable energy field. Formal establishment of the NEB, which would have a
unit dealing with renewable energy, is expected by the end of 1983. Until
then, the recently established Technical Division in MFP will be responsible
for initiating and directing activities in this field. The Government's
energy policy guidelines issued in May 1982 identified the following
priorities for an alternative energy program:
(a) mini and micro-hydropower projects for electrification
of isolated rural and agricultural areas;
(b) promotion of modern techniques to upgrade the scale and
quality of charcoal production;
(c) promotion of improved woodburning and charcoal burning
stoves and ovens;
(d) introduction and promotion of solar energy technology
such as solar crop driers, and solar photovoltaic (PV)
power units for rural services such as rural radio-
telephne communications and media.
11.      The principal focus of the proposed Renewable Energy Program will be
on planning and directing demonstration projects as a means of promoting their
use throughout the country. Emphasis is to be given to renewable energy
technologies which either substitute for petroleum products or are appropriate
for application in rural areas. A tentative list of items which could be
incorporated in the program and evaluated under the Energy Project is given in
Appendix II. The NEB's role will include:
(a) assessment of the national renewable energy resource base;
(b) evaluation of energy conversion technology;
(c) planning and direction of appropriate demonstration projects
throughout the country; and
(d) establishment of a Renewable Technology Demonstration Centre to
implement demonstration projects and assist rural communities in
implementing renewable energy projects.



- 40 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 7
12.      Local funding for the proposed Renewable Energy Program will be
obtained from an Energy Fund. The fund was created in 1980 and is financed
through a levy on the sale of refined petroleum products in Ghana.
Legislative backing for the Energy Fund will be contained in the proposed
Petroleum Law.
III.   IDA's Role
13.      The Government's policies in the renewable energy field are
appropriate. They focus on (i) adopting existing technology to Ghanaian
conditions; (ii) enhancing efficiency of traditional technologies of energy
use; and (iii) adaptation, demonstration and dissemination of renewable energy
technologies which could substitute for conventional energy especially
petroleum products. As a result of these initiatives, energy supplies
especially in rural areas would be enlarged, leading to a strengthening of the
economic development potential and improved quality of life in these areas.
14.      IDA, through the project and its dialogue with the Government, will
aim at putting the sectoral development objectives into practice. Technical
assistance, training, and equipment that will be provided to the National
Energy Board will strengthen this entity's capability to accelerate and
coordinate renewable energy development. It will likewise assist the
Government in preparing projects and identifying sources of financing.
IV. The Project
15.      The Renewables component of the proposed project was identified by a
Bank Energy Sector Mission which visited Ghana in 1980 for which the
Government requested IDA financing. Its objective is to provide the NEB the
means to coordinate efforts in the renewable energy field and develop a work
program that could substitute for conventional energy. To this end, the
project includes (i) specialized services of consultants; (ii) training of
qualified Ghanaian staff both at home and abroad; and (iii) supply of
equipment and other material needed. Specifically, a senior specialist will
advise NEB's Renewable Energy Division for a period of about a year and will,
among other things, be responsible for preparing guidelines for evaluating and
monitoring renewable energy demsonstration projects. It will also include
short-term specialized consulting services, as required for the (i) economic
evaluation of decentralized energy projects, (ii) collecting and analyzing
solar and wind data for energy applications; and (iii) technical evaluation of
solar, wind and biomass options available. The project also includes funds
for the preparation of specialized course material on renewable energy
technology, supply of teaching aids and equipment to supplement those
available in selected institutions. It would also include overseas
training/study visits and the provision of equipment and comprising of
imported instruments for (i) monitoring and processing solar and wind data,
(ii) preparation of design drawings and blueprints in a technical drawing
office, and (iii) selected tools and vehicles to be used on-site in support of
demonstration projects.



- 41 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 7
V.  Project Implementation.  MFP's Technical Division will initially be the
implementing agency for the Renewables component of the Energy Project until
NEB's Renewable Energy Division is fully operational. MFP will work in
collaboration with the Forestry Department and the Forest Products Research
Institute in planning and implementing of forest energy projects . In order
to minimize expenditures, MFP has made arrangements for the use of existing
technical facilities, at specialized local institutions i.e.:
(i) Ghana Atomic Energy Commission for use of engineering workshop
facilities at Kwabenya;
(ii) Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation for use
of technical drawings and other facilities in Accra; and
(iii)Meteorological Services Department for use of solar and
wind data monitoring and processing facilities at Legon.
Because of the close relationship between the thrust of the proposed renewable
energy program and rural development objectives, MFP will collaborate with
relevant departments of the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives.
16.       In the near future and as soon as is feasible, Renewable Energy
Technology Demonstration Center (RETDC) is to be created under the auspices of
the National Energy Board. This center is planned to be a self-standing
technical agency, but to be limited to providing direct technical and
operational support to local communities and enterprises for renewable energy
systems. The Center will be responsible for maintaining an equipment pool,
engineering workshop and technical design office to support the demonstration
and other follow-up projects. Regional offices may be formed when
appropriate. The Center will be barred from engaging in commercial
manufacturing, assembly or operation of renewable energy technology. Detailed
plans for establishing this Center will be finalized under the Energy Project.
VI.   Estimated Cost
Foreign exchange costs of items to be financed under the renewables
component of the proposed projects are estimated as follows:
(US$'000)
(a)   Project Management and
Implementation Specialist
(12 man-months)                                145
(b)   Short term Specialist
Consultants                                     120
(c)   Training of Ghanaian Personnel



- 42 -
Annex IV
Page 7 of 7
(i) preparation of teaching
materials, etc.                            20
(ii) expatriate instructors
(6 man-months)                            60
(iii) teaching aids and
equipment                                40
(iv) training visits (overseas)                35
(d)   Equipment and other facilities
(i)Data processing facilities                  10
(ii) drawing office instruments
and supplies                              5
(iii) vehicles and other tools & investments 65
(iv) Field Testing Projects                    175
Total for Component                            675



- 43  -                                               /\'PVND1XI
RENIEWABI.E E  -'-v RESEARCiH Tl G1!ANA
Technology                                                  Objective/Puryoso                               Institution N - t  ihlo
SOLAR ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
Solar Crop_Dryers
(a)  Direct Exposure Drying Racks                    Improving traditional rnethods preserving            Food Research InstLitute*
small produce (e.g. peppers)
(b)  Direct Exposure Shelf Dryers                    Improving traditionial rethods preserving            University of Science and
grains and other food crops (e.g.,                  Technology
cassava and plantain)
(c)  Preheated Air Crop Dryers                       Improving traditional methods of food                University of Science and
preservation and storage                             Technology
(d)  Cocoa Dryer                                     Increase output of evenly dried beans                Cocoa Research Institute*
(e)  Livestock Feed Dryer                            Drying spent grain                                   Technology Consu]tarcy Centc
Solar Vater IBeaters
(a)  BRRI Prototype                                  Test water heating capabilities                      Building and Road Research
lnstitute*
(b)  Pond-type Heaters                               Development of lew-cost water heaters                Techi.ology Consultancy Cen-
for use in rural and urban households
(c)  Flat Place Collectors                           Test specific properties or rmaterials               University of Ghana
used in collectors
Solar Lumber Kilns
(a)  Solar Kilr.s                                    Drying lunber                                        Forest Preducts Researzh
Institute*
CONVERSION AND UTILIZATION; OF BIO1MASS
(a)  Improved Charcoal Kilns                         Improving conversion efficiency                      Forestry Department
(b)  Ghanaian "Smokeless" Stove                      Based on the Indian "sno0keless chula"               Department of Conrmunity
design for increasing efficiency                    Development
(c)  Improved Dome Oven                              Reducing fuelwcod use                                Food Science and Nutrition
Society**
(d)  Improved Charcoal Stoves                        Improving efficiency
(e)  I2proved Fish Smoking Oven                     Increasing efficiency                                Food Research Institute*
(f)  Pyrolytic Conversion                            Increased recovery of forestry and                   Technology Consultancy Cent,
agricultural residues                               Building and Road Research
Institute* (US AID)
* Institutes of thc Couincil for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
** VUiversity of Ghana



- 44 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 1 of 4
ITEMS TO BE INCORPORATED INTO A RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1. Biomass Energy
a. Charcoal Production by Modern Kilns
Urban demand for charcoal will continue t:o be high as long
as it remains the predominant cooking fuel in urban households. Given
that past attempts to introduce modern kilns such as the Ghana Mini
Kilnl/ to small producers have not been very successful, any further
attempt to revive such schemes should follow a careful assessment of
the type of enterprise, including sale of operations that may appro-
priately take up charcoal production by modern kiln methods. A review
of past experience of the Forestry Department, the UNDP/FAO Daboasi
project and the operations of the Ashanti and Central Regional Develop-
ment Corporations would provide a good start. Financial support for
small-scale charcoal-producing enterprises could be channeled through
local credit institutions and the Energy Fund.
b. Charcoal Fired Kilns
A prototype kiln designed by the Technology Consultancy Center
for use in brass production has been successfully introduced in several
communities near Kumasi. Studies on the feasibility of utilizing this
type of kiln more widely should be given support from the Energy Fund.
c. Sawdust Briquetting Processes
An estimated 25,000 tons of sawdust are dumped annually at
sawmilling sites. A 1980 study has estimated the investment required
to compact this sawdust into briquettes at about 300 Cedis (US$110
equivalent) per delivered ton of briquettes. (Representatives of the
local Bakers Cooperative have expressed an interest in using the
briquettes to replace fuelwood.) This study needs to be expanded to
include operating cost information, detailed design, and additional
marketing analysis.
d. Improved Stoves and Ovens
"Smokeless" Woodburning Stoves. A Ghanaian adaptation of
the Indian HERL smokeless chula was developed and tested
in the early 1960s. Despite promising technical and
economic results (especially for large households in rural
areas), diffusion of the stove has been slow and extension
efforts have been severely cut. A review of past extension
experience and field trials to provide basic information
for developing future programs is needed.
1/ Modified version of the Mark V Kiln designed by Tropical Products
Institute (U.K.).



- 45 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 2 of 4
Dome Oven. An improved traditional dome oven has been
developed by the Food Science and Nutrition Society of
the University of Ghana and is currently in use. Initial
tests indicate that the oven uses 50 percent of the fuel-
wood requirements of a similar sized traditional oven.
Further field testing of the prototype is needed.
Charcoal Stoves ("coalpots"). At only 15 percent heat
conversion, the traditional coalpot fabricated by local
artisans is inefficient and requires frequent replacement.
Improved designs are available but their adaptability to
Ghanaian conditions (manufacturing techiniques, local
materials and consumer preferences) need to be determined.
This could be done through a short study and development
of a more efficient prototype.
Fish Smoking Ovens. An oven for smoking fish more
efficiently was developed by the Technology Consultancy
Center as part of a joint project to upgrade traditional
practices along Ghana's fishing communities. The proto-
type oven was tested in the Elmina Fishing area. The
results of this project need to be reviewed to define
the scope of follow-up action.
2. Solar Energy Applications
a. Solar Crop Driers
Traditional postharvest food conservation practices in Ghana
result in losses exceeding 20 percent of gross production. Grain loss
during sun drying and storage in traditional structures is between
10-30 percent. Since marketing centers still lack storage facilities,
much of the food storage has to be done by the agricultural producers.
The major causes of grain spoilage at the small farm level are insect
and fungal attack, both of which are due to poor drying. Because of
high humidity, traditional sun drying techniques are not effective in
reducing the moisture content of the grains to the 12-13 percent that
is required for safe storage, and most of the traditional storage
structures are not effective in maintaining low humidity levels over
long periods.
A number of prototypes of solar dryers for grain and cocoa have
been produced by the Agricultural Engineering Department of the University
of Science and Technology, the Food Research Institute, and the Cocoa
Research Institute. These need comparative field testing under actual



- 46 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 3 of 4
operating conditions in rural areas. In addition, a survey of
fuelwood consumption for post harvest crop drying and storage
practices is required before large scale development should be
undertaken.
b. Solar Powered Communications Systems
The country's poor telecommunication system continues to
hinder economic social development and especially in rural areas.
Existing land line facilities are run down, resulting in untenable
delays in vital services. Given the high costs of rehabilitating
and expanding the centralized system, photovoltaic panels could
supply the small power requirements for decentralized communication
systems, such as radio transceivers, that could supplement existing
systems in supporting vital services such as health care, marketing
agricultural produce and agro-meteorological services. MFP has
received a number of proposals for a pilot project to demonstrate
solar PV powered rural VHF radio transceiver systems. Bilateral
funding is currently being sought.
3. Mini- and Micro-hydropower
Estimates of mini and microhydro potential in Ghana have been
derived from a series of surveys carried out by the Architectural
and Engineering Services Corporation with technical assistance from
the Indian Government. Altogether, about 41 sub-basins have been
identified on the basis of topographical and hydrological records,
with 10-1000 kW installed power potential per site. Most of these
analyses have been confirmed by field observations. Detailed surveys
are being conducted by the same team in the Dayi River basin of the
Central Volta highlands near Hohoe. The first mini hydro dam which
will have a total capacity of 200 kW when completed was initiated in
June 2, 1982, at Likpe-Kukurantumi. Project financing has been
obtained from local communities and under the Ghana-India Technical
Cooperation Agreement.
4. Windpumps for Stock Water Supply
Prospects for generating wind-based electricity are relatively
poor because of low windspeed levels. However, the prevailing wind
regimes could provide adequate power to operate some available wind-
pumps. Using windpumps to supply the modest but important water needs



- 47 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 4 of 4
for domestic and livestock use in the savannah areas should be given
priority. 1/ The potential for windpumping in the Accra plains appears
to be good because the main livestock-producing areas overlap with
areas which have favorable wind regimes. A pilot demonstration
project is required. 2/
1/ Windmills are generally not the most reliable source of power for
irrigation. However, pumping requirements for cattle watering can
be combined with some irrigation of pastures. The windpumps can
also be used in commercial salt production in the coastal areas
near Winneba.
2/ MFP is considering a pilot installation of the double-effect tropical
windpump which was developed under UNDP auspices in Colombia.



- 48 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Energy Project
Hydrocarbon Geology and Status of Exploration
1.       Ghanaian oil exploration began some eighty-five years ago.  Oil and
gas seepages near the southwest coast prompted exploratory drilling as early
as 1896 and onshore exploration has continued itermittently since then but
without significant success.
2.       There are three onshore sedimentary basins: the large inland Voltaian
Basin in the north, the Tano Basin on the southwest coast and the Keta Basin
in the southeastern coastal area.
The Voltaian Basin
3.       The Voltaian Basin forms a plateau covering about 40,000 square miles
in the central and northeastern parts of the country and extends northeastward
through Togo into Upper Volta and Benin. It is a wide, shallow basin flanked
to the east by Lower Paleozoic geosynclinal rocks and its western and southern
margins are marked by steep escarpments which drop down to adjacent pre-
Cambrian lowlands. It consists of flat-bedded sandstones, mudstones, shales
and some limestones of probable (pre-Middle Devonian) Lower Paleozoic age.
4.       From 1961 to 1965 a USSR team drilled seven boreholes to depths of
2,300 feet which reportedly encountered saline waters, some traces of heavy
oil and bitumen and a small gas show. Shell subsequently conducted a
comprehensive exploration program over a 29,940 km2 concession which they
relinquished after drilling the Premuase No. 1 dry hole to a depth of 3,830
feet near Ketekrachi in 1977.
5.       Because of the limited  amount of exploration to date, the basin
would require further work to properly evaluate its potential. However, it is
filled with Paleozoic sediments which are partly metamorphosized and therefore
should not be given high priority.
The Tano Basin
6.       Both the Tano and Keta Basins are the onshore expressions of a single
large offshore sedimentary basin which extends along the continental shelf
from the Ivory Coast eastward and broadens onshore through Togo, Benin and
inland into Nigeria where it forms the Nigerian Basin, a prolific producer of
oil and gas.
7.       The Tano Basin consists of a wedge of Upper Cretaceous sediments
thickening seaward which underlie a coastal strip up to ten miles wide for a



- 49 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 6
distance of sixty miles between the mouths of the Ankobra and Tano Rivers and
which extends westward into the Ivory Coast.
8.       Tar sands and numerous oil and gas seeps have long been known in the
Bonyeri, Ebwazo and Tobo areas and a total of 17 boreholes have been drilled
in search of a commercial accumulation of petroleum. All of the wells
encountered hydrocarbons and several intersections of oil shale and oil sand
were reported; however, nothing of commercial significance was found.
9.       In 1965/66 the Geological Survey Department conducted a gravity
survey which showed that the sediments thicken from zero at the basin's edge
to more than 10,000 feet along the coast. The survey also mapped the
Ahonjuri-Kankang fault which is a major northwest-trending fault, downthrown
1,500 feet to the south, near the center of the basin. The presence of
numerous oil and gas see pages and a substantial thickness of sediments
containing favorable source, reservoir, and cap-rocks indicate that the
onshore Tano Basin and its prolongation offshore is a favorable area for
continued oil exploration. Tar sands have also been found in the area.
Studies by Robertson Research International (RRI) have concluded that these
"tar sands" may in fact be near surface accumulation of light oil. Further
evaluation is needed as is currently being done in Ivory Coast (see Paras 26-
29).
The Keta Basin
10.      The Keta Basin underlies an area of 850 sq mi in the southeast
coastal area adjacent to the Togo border. Onshore exploration has been
hampered by lagoons which cover 50% of the area and most of the remainder is
blanketed by Pleistocene and recent sands and gravels with little outcropping
of bedrock.
11.      Three wells have been drilled to depths ranging from 5,125 to 13,430
feet. Atiavi No. 1 and Anloga No. 2 were drilled in the eastern part of the
basin near Keta by a Romanian team in 1966/67 and Dzita No. 1 was drilled near
the mouth of the Volta River by Mesa in 1973. This drilling has demonstrated
the presence of a thick section of Tertiary and Cretaceous sediments resting
on Devonian rocks and thickening southward into the offshore area. An
unconformity within the Upper Cretaceous (Maestrichtian/Campanian) is overlain
by marine Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary sands, limestones and shale and
underlain by continental type Upper/Lower Cretaceous sands and silts. The
marine rocks are rich in hydrocarbons and numerous oil shows were encountered
above the unconformity.
12.      This basin still has significant potential for oil exploration and
concessions have been awarded to Texas Pacific Oil and Gas Company.



- 50 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 6
The Offshore Basin
13.      The Offshore Basin extends for 320 miles along the whole length of
the coast and is the area where major oil and gas accumulations are most
likely to occur. The areal extent of the basin out to the 100-fathom line is
approximately 10,000 square miles.
14.      East of Accra the continental shelf narrows to less than 15 miles in
width and slopes off steeply into an ocean deep. Only three offshore wells
have been drilled in this area and none has encountered hydrocarbons.
15.      West of Accra the shelf broadens to more than 50 miles in width
before narrowing again to 25 miles at the Ivory Coast border. This is the
area where most of the wells have been drilled and where numerous oil and gas
shows, including several of possible commercial significance, have been
encountered.
16.      The first offshore seismic was shot by Gulf in 1956 to support their
stratigraphic drilling program along the coast of the Tano Basin. The data
were badly distorted by multiple interference and considered to be O  little
value.
17.      By 1968 seismic techniques had greatly improved, offshore concessions
were in demand, and the whole offshore area out to the 100-fathom line was
subdivided into 22 blocks and licensed. In 1970 a total of 11 wells was
drilled in the offshore area and 23 additional wells have been drilled in the
following 10 years (including appraisal or development wells).
Discoveries
General
18.      Exploration to date has resulted in one marginally economic oilfield
at Saltpond, one unevaluated gas discovery at Cape Three Points, (with a
possible second unevaluated gas find at Dix Cove) and two oil discoveries, at
South and North Tano, both of which need to be further appraised.
The Saltpond Field
19.      The Saltpond field, located 65 miles west of Accra and 8 miles
offshore in 85 feet of water, was discovered in 1970 by the Signal 10-1 well.
Oil was tested from two zones, one at a depth of 7,700 feet in the Permo-
Carboniferous Takoradi "A" sand and the other in the Devonian Takoradi B"
sand at 8,500 feet. Initial tests indicated that the well could produce 36.70
API oil at 3,600 BD and reserves were estimated to be 7.5 million barrels.



- 51 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 6
20.      Amoco later reevaluated the field and calculated that production
would peak at 9,000 BD in the first year declining to 900 BD in the fourth and
final year. It was estimated that with the development costs, including the
costs of the test well, the field would not be economically viable.
21.      Amoco subsequently relinquished the concession and it was reassigned
to the Offshore Hydrocarbon Corporation who farmed it out to Agripetco for
development. In August 1978 an independent evaluation of the field was made
¶     by Keplinger and Associates which indicated that there were 49.16 million
barrels of oil-in-place. Agripetco placed it on production in October 1978
with an initial production of approximately 4,800 BD.
22.      Difficulties have been experienced in producing the field due mainly
to the fact that the reservoir consists of seven thin pay sands with several
different oil/water and gas/oil interfaces. The reservoir pressure has fallen
below the bubble point. Production has now declined to about 1,200 BD and,
unless some new completion and production techniques can be brought to bear,
field production is expected to continue to decline and to reach uneconomic
levels by the end of 1983. Recent studies have concluded that if further
investments such as in drilling of additional wells or water flooding are
undertaken, about 7 or 8 million barrels of oil could be recovered. Moreover
the southern part of the field is still undrilled and so are other interesting
structures in the vicinity of Saltpond.
Cape Three Points
23.      The Cape Three Points structure, located in 340 feet of water 18
miles off Cape Three Points, was drilled by the Phillips Zapata 4-1 well in
1974. A drillstem test flowed gas at 3.7 MMCFD from a Lower Cretaceous sand
at a depth of 9,100 feet. The discovery is believed to be small and non-
commercial. AGIP has now taken over the concession from Aracca and has
recently drilled an exploratory well in this area. The results of this well
are not known, however.
South Tano
24.      The South Tano lS-1X discovery well located in 313 feet of water, 20
miles off the coastal town of Half Assini and 13 miles from the Ivory Coast
border, was drilled by Phillips in 1978. A drillstem test in Lower Cretaceous
sands below 6,000 feet tested 1,475 bbl of oil/day and flowed 8.2 MMCFD of
natural gas. The South Tano 1S-2X follow-up well, drilled to the southwest,
was a dry hole, and the IS-3AX well, a long stepout south of the discovery
well, tested gas at rates ranging up to 10 MMCFD from several of the Lower
Cretaceous sands. A fourth well, Phillips SouthTano IS-4X, was spudded in
March 1981, presumably to test the same closure as the discovery well.



- 52 -
Annex V
Page 5 of 6
North Tano
25.      The North Tano Structure is located in approximately 150 feet of
water ten miles off Half Assini and about the same distance from the Ivory
Coast border. Very little information is available from the Phillips North
Tano IN-1X discovery well. Evaluation of these wells need to be undertaken,
particularly now that Phillips intend relinquishing all of the acreage. The
proposed project includes funds for this purpose.
Tano Tar Sands
26.      An analysis of samples of oil, asphalt and saturated sand indicates
that the oil is most likely sourced from a light gravity oil located downdip.
It is not, therefore, a tar sand, but it does indicate that a hydrocarbon
source exists.
27.      The Tano tar sands are located near the southwest coast in the
onshore Tano Basin. Oil seepages, surface patches of asphalt and occurrences
of oil and bitumen saturated sands have been reported from the Bonyeri-Ebwazo
area for many years and have repeatedly enticed wildcat drillers to the
area. The Tano oil shows are mainly shows of light gravity oil which will
actually flow from the sand when pressure is released e.g., by swabbing. A
laboratory analysis of the Tano oil sample examined shows that it has a
gravity of 360 API, a viscosity of 3.7 centistokes at 40°C, is of middle
maturation and was derived from a marine algal source. The sample of tar sand
examined showed it to be a sand impregnated with soluble oil from land-derived
organic matter and that it has too many light fractions to be from bunker fuel
contamination. Technically, therefore, these are not tar sands in the
accepted sense but appear to be seeps of light gravity oil moving from a
downdip hydrocarbon source to the surface where the oils lose their light ends
to the atmosphere and form an asphalt residue or incipient tar-mat. The
numerous gas seeps reported from the lagoon also appear to support this
theory. If a tar-mat exists of sufficiently wide extent to form a surface
seal then there is the possibility that a near-surface accumulation of light
oil could be present in the area.
28.      Whatever their nomenclature, these oil and gas shows are significant
since they provide evidence of a prolific downdip hydrocarbon source which
should provide sufficient hydrocarbons to fill any traps in the area. This
accentuates the need to map the subsurface structure and to take cores from
known oilsands and to have them properly analyzed.
29.      A preliminary evaluation of the tar sands in the Tano area should
consist of a minimum of 75 km of seismic line and 5 coreholes. The seismic
program will be severely restricted by access but should consist of the
following lines:



- 53 -
Annex V
Page 6 of 6
Line AB- 25 miles along the coast east from Half Assini far enough
to intersect the trace of the gravity fault.
Line CD- 12 miles, to follow the road arcing inland from Ahobre to
Bonyeri.
Line EF- 8 miles northeastward from the coast road at Domini Lagoon
to the Volta River.
Coreholes No. 1 to 4 should be drilled to sufficient depth to penetrate the
Nauli limestone marker. Since, from offshore well control, this appears to
dip regionally at about 200 feet per mile, unless interrupted by faulting, it
should be encountered in the boreholes at the following depths: borehole No.
1-600 feet, borehole No. 2-200 feet, borehole No. 3-100 feet, borehole No.4-
200 feet. These should be drilled an additional 100 feet to try to ensure
penetration of the marker and should be drilled with oil base mud to prevent
flushing the oil sand cores which should be placed in sealed containers.
Borehole No.5 should be drilled to 1,000 feet to look for a shallow oil
accumulation trapped against the fault.






UP PER           VOLTA                                       I,                                          MOOT     P0 VOLTAo
i t _ X _-.                                -  y(Oo' &o;"   L            BOE NU
J ,_ Novorgo                             \                                    <>J ---    9GHANA       ¼
rOLGATANGA                  .           009< COAST              >000-
t< Up p er  R e giXon                                      ikt          r~.                                                   \\
-N~~~~~-
K                                                                        G/obg                                                 <. 0EF l     ag31
7'  \\                                     '~              /.o             0. .  
-n-       x. - ,Wlol'e"'' wol/eD                                                              10-
k   Wo      N                  - 
\> p S x { 9 . r °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20   40 60    40  I00
\ _. t , <;: > \ / t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   0                                               20 0. 6
I v 0 R Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                           6
\.     \                                                                                         K       Cba:
\V (Soelo                                                                                           pX~  
f   If<~~~~~-" ~~Bosuno  .-«049:   /                 'N9                                     1) abr 
RI ,ol             Dosno                    &~~ -                  lbe                           A   ( 
tz  r\/o  n                                              e   r/    >g    I    o n       <B il=0 -
NorhenN;,                                                                            Soer A  .    ,I'.D'           '  X '
IVORY            \\ G\                                    /            .  o-  -                     --
W   \      \                 1Gowompe e  s
CO ASeT g                                                             -len  A<
--          -------          k -                  \         /  ..- s      
fioAbg@/or   S          j        07>2n' mp          \         yjC                  I       <.-')\ s        t5
35            ,Y   .. 
ToAbsd   JX  SUNYa>II   > -\~      ~~~~~  -y  -j                                    '\\   ?:           -
<'<0-                                     IlmToa  rn, p,Ao f u \   ProS  O-l {
/B              on                  "'     h f                ?Atebob /                                        papoS
\ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     eo                               Regim.5    nwakat  Btal Poosa   a.  eoo 85  ; 
,y,~_: d t 735 ' 30$ V  lj7 W ' 3 ENE-RGY                                                     F'ROJECT
SLNYAT.I    -                         E;ro (                                                      0A. -
Gorrooc-  "'                                                                    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     /--   ---
~N    RbL1{    An6,onkAon2A



