O)CtF FI C1A L
DOCUIMENTS REDIT NUMBER 1373 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1373 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        4.LA    97                , 1983,
between REPUBLIC OV GHANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the A&sociation being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Fuel and Power;
(b) "NEB" means the National Energy Board to be established
by the Borrower under Part C 1 of the Project;
(c) "GNPC" means the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
to be established under Part B 1 of the Project;
(d)  "Saltpond field" means the oil field located 65 miles
west of Accra and 8 miles offshore;
(e) "Tano Tar Sands" means the tar sands located on the
on-shore Tano basin near the Borrower's western border;
(f) "Project   Preparation  Advances"  means  the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 25, 1980 and
August 14, 1980, and September 28, 1981 and May 3, 1982 res-
pectively, between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, -as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrdwer, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section'2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1993, and ending December 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MFP with due diligence and efficiency and in conform-
ity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
economic and petroleum resources management practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B.1 and C.1 of the
Project according to a timetable satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) establish GNPC and NEB with
organizations consistent with the objectives of the
Project which, in the case of GNPC, shall include an
Exploration Department and a Production Department; and
(ii) appoint as head of said Departments qualified and
experienced staff.
(d) The Borrower shall cause      the beneficiaries of the
fellowships to be granted under the Project to take
courses and programs which shall have been approved by
the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants and experts in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by such consultants and experts
for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs,
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower and Association shall from time to time
exchange views on the progress and results of the activities of
such consultants and experts.
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the experts or consultants em-
ployed under the Project, or grant any material extension of time
or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or
agree to any substitution of personnel of such experts or consul-
tants without the prior concurrence of the Association.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financct out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery -thereof t:o
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1984, carry out, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, the study
included under Part C.4 of the Project;
(b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Associa-
tion a copy of such study and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the recommendations of such study; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1984, prepare, and there-
after carry out according to a timetable satisfactory to the
Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, to
implement all such recommendations of such study as are accept-
able to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) Promptly after its completion, the Bor-
rower shall exchange views with the Association on the results of
the study included under Parts A.9 and C.3 of the Project; and
(b) the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on the future development of the Saltpond field.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1985, prepare and furnish to the Association for comment, a
proposal for a work program of investments in renewable energy
and for financing such investments.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall, through its
administrative units in charge of the carrying out of the Pro-
ject, including NEB and GNPC, prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion quarterly and annual reports, of such scope and detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the
execution of the Project.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower's M1FP shall maintain or
cause ti bt aintained separate accounts and records adequate to


﻿- 7 -
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in reslect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
and (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) a certified copy of the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, and (B) such other Information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date             t 1 40   is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Principal Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 8-
For the Borrower:
Republic of Ghana
Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICON
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
ff'ty  Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 140,000          50%
(2) Equipment                   240,000       )
(3) Seismic                     930,000       ) 100% of foreign
Survey                                   ) expenditures
(4) Tano Tar                    610,000       )
Sands study                              )
(5) Renewable                   280,000       )
energy demon-                            )
stration projects                        )
(6) Consultant                4,330,000       )
Services                                 )
(7) Training                    460,000       )
(8) Refunding of Project        665,000          Amount due
Preparation Advances
(9) Unallocated               2,545,000
TOTAL      10,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments fo- axes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 90,000, may be made in respect of Category 5 on account of
expenditures for legal and economic services made before that
date but after January 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Ag--eement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will assist the Borrower in evaluating and
promoting the development of the country's petroleum potential,
strengthening the petroleum subsector organization, implementing
energy studies and coordinating and promoting the development and
use of renewable energy. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
A.   Petroleum exploration promotion
1.   Retrieving, reviewing and interpreting existing geolo-
gical and geophysical data, including a basin source
rock analysis, and a comprehensive stratigraphic study
of available well information.
2.   Evaluation of all data generated by the seismic survey
to be carried out in off shore Ghana and integrating it
with existing data.
3.   Acquisition and evaluation of about 1,000 kilometers
of new data in the Tano offshore area.
4.   Collection and evaluation of new data on the Tano Tar
Sands area, including data from some 75 kilometers of
seismic lines and samples from five core holes.
5.   Revision of the Borrower's petroleum legislation and
the formulation of draft model petroleum exploration
and production agreements.
6.   Preparation of a promotional package for the petroleum
industry and organization of bidding by petroleum com-
panies on acreage open for exploration.
7.   Provision of technical assistance for the negotiation
of exploration contracts with petroleum companies.
8.   Monitoring the activities of operating petroleum com-
panies and integrating the data they furnish into
existing knowledge of the basin.


﻿- 12 -
9.   Completion of the Saltpond field reservoir engineering
study or monitoring activities at Saltpond.
B.   Strengthening the Borrower's Petroleum Sector Organization
1.   Establishment of a national petroleum corporation res-
ponsible for exploration, development, production and
disposal of petroleum, which responsibilities shall
include, inter alia, executing related contracts, eval-
uating and integrating the data provided to the Bor-
rower by petroleum companies and other sources and,
when required, participating in oil and gas develop-
ment.
2.   Technical assistance services of geological, geophysi-
cal and petroleum engineering experts, including pro-
vision of on-the-job training for GNPC staff.
3.   Training abroad of about ten Ghanaian nationals in
petroleum geology, geophysics, engineering, economics
and law.
4.   Expansion  of existing   offices  and   construction  of
storage facilities for well cores and samples; acquisi-
tion and utilization of library materials; and acquisi-
tion and utilization of equipment for reproducing and
storing seismic sections and well logs.
C.   Strengthening the Borrower's National Energy Sector
Organization
1.   Establishment of a national energy board as an advisory
body to MFP, responsible for developing and coordina-
ting energy policies.
2,   Provision of technical assistance to NEB, including
services of energy economists, renewable energy spe-
cialists as well as short term assistance by economic
and energy experts to assist NEB in the collection of
data and preparation of work programs in the renewable
energy field and to provide on-the-job training to NEB
staff.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Natural gas utilization study, including an evaluation
of potential domestic markets in power generation and
other large volume energy uses.
4.   Study on options and steps to be taken by the Borrower
to establish an adequate pricing system for petroleum
products.
5.   Development of safety and other regulations relating to
exploration and production activities and the estab-
lishment of procedures for inspecting and monitoring
such activities.
6.   Development of a detailed and comprehensive       energy
statistical data base, including energy end-use surveys
and carrying out studies that will serve as the basis
for drawing up a long-term energy plan for Ghana.
7.   Preparation of a work plan for investments in the
renewable energy sector based on field testing and
demonstration projects.
8.   Establishment of up-to-date energy information centers
for planning and renewable energy.
9.   The acquisition and utilization of equipment for renew-
able and energy planning purposes.
10. Training of Ghanaian nationals in energy sector plan-
ning and management and renewable energy technologies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   The work on the Tano Tar Sands under Part A.4 of the Project
shall be carried out under a seismic contract and a drilling con-
tract.   Both contracts shall be awarded through limited inter-
natio: 1l tendering after obtaining quotations from a group of
potential contractors broad enough, under the circumstances, to
assure competitive prices, in at least three of the countries or
territories eligible under the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
The evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained through
limited international tendering and the award of the contracts to
be so procured shall be made in accordance with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the construction of facilities and for the
acquisition of equipment shall be awarded in accordance with
local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided that for each contract quotations from at least three
established and reliable contractors or suppliers will be ob-
tained.
3.   The seismic survey included under Part A.2 of the Project
shall be contracted without formal bidding, following procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or 47aiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 .3
FOR SECRETARY


