Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IIICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10301-RO  Type: (PCR)                          ReprtNo. 10301
WATKINS, H/ X31708 / T-9102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RO)
FEBRUARY 4, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Tis document has a restsicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  - Leu, Lel (plural)
Lei 18.0        - US$1.00 up to December 31, 1980
Lei 15.0       m US$1.00 from January 1, 1981
Lei 16.5        - US$1.00 from January 1, 1983
Lei 17.5       - US$1.00 from June 30, 1983
Lei 21.5          US$1.00 from January 1, 1984
Lei 17.5        = US$1.00 from November 1, 1984
Lei 16.0        = US$1.00 after July 1, 1986
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System              British/US System
1 meter (m)                -  3.2808  feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           -  0.6324  mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -  0.3861 sq. mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)           0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CFR (DEPCF)    Romanian Railways (Departamentul Cailor Ferate)
DR (DD)         Directorate of Roads (Directia Drumurilor)
EMENA           Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EMTIN           Infrastructure Division of the Technical Department of the
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ER             Economic Return
GNP             Gross National Product
IB              Investment Bank of Romania
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
(ICPTT)        Technological Research and Design Institute for Transport
(Institutul de Cercetari si Proiectari Technologice in
Transporturi)
MTTc (MTTC)    Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
PCR             Project Completion Report
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
TU              Traffic Unit
FISCA1. YEAR
January 1 to December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Okfe of tDisor-G.wal
Opralkmnh {v&atl
February 4, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Romania Land Transport Project
(Loan 2034-RO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Romania - Land Transport Project (Loan 2034-RO)" prepared
by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Dapartment at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnnco
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed %ithout World Dank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2Q34-RDfl
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I     PROJECT REVIEW FROM TPE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I       Project Identity                                               1
II      Background                                                     1
III     Project Objectives and Description                             3
IV      Project Design and Organization                                4
V       Project Implementation                                         5
Loan Effectiveness                                          5
Project Start-up                                            5
Implementation Schedule                                     5
Procurement                                                 6
Project Costs and Financing                                 7
Disbursement                                                7
Loan Covenants                                              8
VI      Project Results                                                8
Project Objectives                                          8
Physical Targets                                            8
Economic Performance                                        8
Financial Performance                                      10
Technical Assistance and Training                          11
VII     Project Sustainability                                        12
VIII    Bank Performance                                              12
IX      Borrower Performance                                          14
X       Bank-Borrower Relationship                                    14
XI      Consulting Services                                           14
XII     Project Documentation and Data                                14
PART II    MROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                 16
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION:                                       18
Table I - Related Bank Loans                                          20
Table 2 - Project Timetable                                           21
Table 3 - Loan Disbursement                                           22
Table 4 - Project Implementation                                      23
Table 5(A) and (B) - Project Costs and Financlng                      25
Table 6(A) through (E) - Project Results                              26
Table 7 - Status of Covenants                                         30
Table 8(A) and (B) - Staff Inputs                                     31
(cont'd)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.'d)
Annex 1  - List of Equipment Procured                                  34
Annex 2   - Traffic Trends                                             35
Annex 3-5 - Audited Financial Statements (1981-85)                     38
Annex 6   - Key Indicators for Romanian Railways' (CFR) Operation   41
(1980-85)
MAP - IBRD 15462R2 - Romania - Land Transport Project



PROJECT COMPLETIO REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(IWAN 2034-RO)
PREE&CE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Land Transport
Project in Romania for which Loan 2034-RO in the amount of US$125 million was
approved on April 21, 1981. The Loan was closed in May 1987, about two months
behind schedule. US$124.8 million was disbursed and about US$0.2 million
cancelled. The last disbursement was on March 24, 1987.
This Completion Report was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division (EKTIN) of the Technical Department of the Europe and
Central Asia Reginal Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).
The report is based on-information obtained from Project files in
the ECAMENA Information Services Unit, Staff Appraisal Report, President's
Report, Staff Supervision Reports, procurement documents and several working
papers.



PROJEaT CONPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RQ)
EVA LUATION SUMMARY
Objective2
1.         The project was designed mainly to relieve transport bottlenecks
and mounting congestion on some of the most heavily trafficked railways and
road sections (e.g. the Bucharest-Constanta corridor). The project also made
suitable provision for regional secondary and feeder roads, so essential for
the less developed regions to cater for and induce economic development. In
addition, the project included a traffic optimization study designed to
improve resource allocation in the transport sector by transport policy
analysis (paras 3.01, 4.02 and 6.01). The project objectives have been
substantially achieved (paras 6.02-6.11.)
Implementation Exoerience
2.         The Investment Bank (I8) of Romania, the Borrower, supervised the
execution of the project with the participation of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTTc), which was responsible for the overall co-ordination
of the project and project-related activities within the MTTc. The proceeds
of the Loan were passed on e. the Railway Department (CFR) and the Roads
Directorate (DR) for execution of the railway and highway components. The
arrangements proved to be satisfactory. Once the Loan became effective, the
projent took off smoothly. A substantial number of civil works proceeded
according to schedule and were completed on target dates (para 5.02). The
execution of a few sub-projects, however, faced significant delays due to
unforeseen problems encountered in tunnel constructions and the unduly long
delivery period of steel for the mainspan superstructure of the Danube
bridges. In consultation with the Bank, the Government employed advanced type
shield equipment to improve productivity in tunnel works. Furthermore, the
Government introduced easing injections to stabilize sandy soil in the
tunnels, as well as a new system of worker rewards for increasing labor
productivity in relation to these works. These arrangements did help speed up
the works, but could not fully recover the lost time (para 5.03). The quality
of construction of civil works was satisfactory.
3.         Regarding procurement matters, procurement actions as a whole
appeared at the time to be in compliance with the letter of the Bank's
procurement rules. However, this loan was part of a general pattern that was
unsatisfactory, i.e. Romania won virtually all contracts. At an early stage,
the Bank mission found that the technical specifications, schedules of
delivery and bill of quantities (lists of unit prices) prescribed at the time
of bid invitation needed amplification to permit an adequate response from
international competitors, but the Borrower readily revised the necessary
documents.
4.         During project implementation a high-level decision was taken to
economize the use of petroleum products in the country which had an impact on
the design of three of the project roads where the asphaltic concrete pavement



- ii -
was, in consultation with the Bank, altered - without sacrifice of strength -
to one of Portland cement (Para 5.02). The Bank's flexible approach in such
situations facilitated smooth implementation of the project and was greatly
appreciated by the Borrower (paras 5.02 and 8.01).
5.         The traffic optimization study began on time but progressed slowly
and was completed almost three years behind schedule. The study approach was
comprehensive and the methodology followed was sound (para 5.05).
6.         A major problem of implementation was faced in respect of the
training program. After a delay of 3-4 years the Borrower carried out a
limited training program, but even within this limited program execution of
the railway tunnel by mechanical methods, which had been agreed because of its
importance for future infrastructure works, was ultimately cancelled by the
Borrower. In spite of the urgent need for technology transfer in the country,
the Bank mission perceived a great reluctance on the part of the country to
offer adequate exposure to its technical personnel abroad to familiarize
themselves with the state-of-the-art (para 5.06).
Results
7.         The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$767.1
million. The actual cost was US$611.2 million. Several factors are
responsible for the savings in construction costs. For instance, intense
competition due to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and lower bid
prices obtained than those in the appraisal estimate resulted in a
considerable savings in several items (Paras 5.07 and 5.08). A strong US
dollar in the early 1980s also contributed to substantial savings (para 5.08).
Furthermore, price contingencies provided for in the cost estimates at
appraisal turned our to be liberal. Actual disbursements were faster thar. the
appraisal estimates (para 5.09).
8.         Actual traffic on the railways compared well with appraisal
estimates for both passenger and goods traffic 1981-85 (para 6.10, Annex 2B
Pt III). However, recent railway traffic figures (1989/90) show a clear
departure from the past trend. Railway traffic in 1990 actually dropped about
30% from the peak traffic of 1989 (Annex 2C Pt III). As regards highway
traffic the recent traffic figures indicate that the declining trend of the
1980s has been arrested and the road traffic which was suppressed by physical
control and regulations in the 1980s is gradually picking up in 1990. Taking
into account the latest traffic trend, economic returns for the different sub-
projects have been re-evaluated under different future traffic scenar.os (Para
6.06 and Table 6B Pt III). Re-evaluated ERs show that due to an unforeseen
downturn of the economy during 1989/90, the rate of return for the different
sub-project(s) is lower than the appraisal estimate(s) but still almost all
the project components remain well justified under different scenarios
considered, excepting one road stretch, namely Fetesti-Cernavoda (ER 10)
which has particularly suffered due to the steep decline in tourist traffic.
The project's overall re-evaluated ER is about 15 or 16% as compared with 20X
estimated at appraisal. It should be emphasized, however, that the re-
evaluated ER for the overall project and for its components is subject to a
margin of error, or uncertainty, considerably larger than is normally the
case. This is because of inadequate information on the actual traffic using
the improved or new rail and road sections provided under the project (see
Note to Table 6B).



iii -
9.         The financial performance of the railways during the period 1981-
85 did not come up to appraisal expectations (para 6.07). Appraisal
expectations of higher availability of electric/diesel locco, other rolling
stock and staff productivity did not materialize. This was primarily due to
denied access to critical inputs or spare parts from abroad due to excessive
cotiiession of imports and the elimination of foreign borrowing. Furthermore,
rail tariffs remained unchanged despite a substantial increase in input (e.g.
diesel fuel) costs. Fortunately, a reduction of about 5,000 railway surplus
staff to some extent mitigated the adverse financial trend. The depreciation
charges. together with benefits (profits), still generated adequate internal
resources which enabled CFR to finance about 40 to 50 percent of its
investments, the other helf being financed mostly through state allocations
(paras 6.08 and 6.10). Thd CFR continued to make at least some profit (para
6.10).
10.            Use of the results of the traffic optimization study was
constrained by an administrative decision which resulted in a highly skewed
traffic split in favor of rail transport (paras 5.05 and 6.11).
sust2-ra* 'b 'ity
11.            The railways and highways organization are technically strong
and competently managed. There is reasonable expectation that project
benefits will be sustained (para 7.01).  It is, however, necessary that
railway tariffs be reviewed continuously and rationally restructured whenever
necessary, and that continuity of close Bank-Government collaboration be
maintained to strengthen the groundwork laid in the first land transport
project.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
12.            The project has been successful in meeting most of its
objectives, and a number of lessons have been learnt. These lessons are:
(a)            Considering the large size of the combined rail-cum-road
bridges on the two arms of the Danube, the Bank should have
advised the Government to introduce International Competitive
Bidding (I13) for such major civil works' to ensure cost-
effectiveness. This could have been an important breakthrough
and could possibly also have avoided many of the problems
encountered in implementing this important sub-project (para
8.01a);
1,    Introduction of ICB in a similar situation in Hungary
(construction of Budapest by-pass including two bridges on the
river Danube) in a Bank-financed project paid rich dividends.



- iv -
(b)            The Bank should have been more forceful in persuading the
Government to implement the findings of the traffic
optimization study mainly by economic criteria rather than
administrative policy decisions and physical regulations (para
6.11). It is, however, understandable that the political
climate in those days was rather hostile for a successful
implementation of the study results but with the recent opening
up of the economy, and on-going restructuring process, the Bank
should encourage the Government to adopt a more market-oriented
transport system;
(c)            Lack of continuity in the Bank's supervision, particularly
following Romania's unilateral decision to discontinue
borrowing from the Bank, reduced the Bank's leverage in
addressing the institutional issues, especially poor
implementation of the training program. Furthermore, for
future training programs to fulfill objectives, it would be
advisable to take into account participants' weakness in or
lack of knot-ledge of English so that adequate preparatory
arrangements could be planned in advance (paras 6.11 and 7.01).
(d)            We have learned from these operations that the Romanian
counterparts have only modest experience in procurement
matters, particularly in the international recruitment of
consulting services under the Bank's Guidelines, and will
therefore require a great deal of help in these matters.
Secondly, the Government should issue a dectz.e interim
regulation as soon as possible to ensure that all government
agencies strictly follow procedures acceptable to the Bank for
procurement of goods and services, including consulting
services. This should be a prerequisite for resumption of Bank
lending in Romania.



PROJECr COMPLEFION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECr
(LOADN 2034-RO)
PART  - rR     REVIEW IMM -AN 



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RO)
PART I
I. PRQJECT IDENTITY
Project Name   LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan No         2034-RO
RVP Unit        EMTIN
Country        Romania
Sector         Transport
Subsector      Railways and Highways
II. BACKGROUND
2.01 Despite the existence of extensive mcuntainous areas, Romania has a
fairly well developed and evenly distributed transportation network (see MAP)
to integrate its 240,000 sq.km of territory and to serve the needs of its
population of over 23 million. The transportation network includes about
11,000 route-km of railways, 73,500 km of roads, one major seaport, four main
commercial river ports and a sizeable network of inland waterways and
pipelines. The Danube river, which is navigable, flows through 1,075 km of
Romania, mainly along its southern border. Ninety percent of foreign trade is
handled through the port of Constanta on the Black Sea. Pipelines have been
the principal carriers of petroleum and natural gas but have a limited and
specialized role. Air and coastal shipping are relatively unimportant for
inland transport.
2.02 The backbone of Romania's internal freight transportation is the railway
network, which has the crucial responsibility for moving traffic over
relatively long distances from the various concentrated centers of manufacture
and trade to important consumption centers. Although road traffic is
sustaining high volume in tonnage, it functions mainly as a short-haul mover.
It is significant that for passengar traffic, the railways' former dominance
passed to roads in the late 1960s.



-2
2.03 Neither the truck fleet nor the highway system is adequate to make
trucking a flexible long-haul alternative to railroads. The limited emphasis
on road development is best understood within a broad view of Romania's
transport strategy, with industrial development being a key factor in the
development'of the transport system. The transport sector has first of all,
therefore, been required to meet the needs of heavy industry and associated
large construction projects. The needs of light industry, agriculture, and
passenger transport have been secondary. Distribution of industrial and
consumer goods is made from distribution centers which have been established
in every "judet" (county). While transport to and from those centers within
the judet is by road, this pattern of geographically concentrated development
of production and consumption centers has favored railways because of their
ability so handle dense freight traffic flows from one center to another which
are generally well equipped with sidings and handling facilities for bulk
traffic. About three-quarters of railway traffic moves from siding to siding.
Furthermore, the production of consumer goods and light manufacturing
industries which normally favor the use of road transport, is less developed.
2.04 Sea transport has been used exclusively for foreign trade and there is
little coastal traffic. With the exception of crude oil, most movements in
the past to and from the Constanta port were by rail. Completion of the
Danube-Black Sea Canal has resulted in significant additional transport
capacity to serve the economy and facilitate movement of freight traffic to
and from Constanta by water transport. This canal was the major component of
a larger program which also includes construction of deep-water facilities at
the port of South Constanta-Agigea, designed to handle large bulk carriers.
2.05 Overall, transport accounted for less than 10 of Romania's total
investments generally, while in other countries it generally accounted for
about 15-25X. Thus, Romania's transport investments have been low by
international comparison. Transport agencies are granted only few resources
for expansion. Instead, efforts are made to intensify the use of existing
facilities.
2.06 Energy has become a critical sub-sector for the Romanian economy.
Having begun to import oil in 1968, Romania became a net importer of energy by
1977, and in 1980 was for the first time to import more crude oil than was
produced.
2.07 The principal objectives of transport policy during the last decade were
the efficient provision of services, a lowering of the share of transportation
costs within the total costs of the economy, and reduction of energy
consumption. To these ends, the authorities were fostering the use of rail
and water transport for long- and medium-distance commodity hauls, and of road
transport for short hauls, the development of integrated transport facilities
(e.g., containers), and the use of common carriers in preference to transport
on own account.



-3-
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01 The objectives of the project were to assist Romania:
(a)   to avoid transport cost increases by providing timelv
relief of existing traffic congestion through road and rail
investments intended to widen and increase the capacity of
transport links which are approaching saturation;
(b)    to provide all-weather access to a development area, which
heretofore has been served by only a fair weather track,
and to provide transport for a new mine;
(c)    to improve the economic evaluation of projects;
(d)    to improve monitoring of the use of the road network;
(e)    to improve resource allocation in the transport sector by
transport policy analysis (especially in respect of the
modal split); and
(f)    to familiarize the railway and highway organizations with
recent developments and trends in operating, monitoring and
maintenance techniques utilizing the latest technology.
3.02       DescriRtion of the Project
The project consists of high priority items included in Romania's
1981-85 railway and highway Investment Plans and technical assistance. The
railway components include: (i) construction of 77 km of two new lines
together with about 7 km of tunnels, 3 km of bridges and 2 km of viaducts;
(ii) doubling of three line sections of approximately 125 km; (iii)
electrification of 470 route km of main lines; (iv) procurement of special
steel for the superstructure of Cernavoda bridge over the Danube; and (v)
procurement of about 3301 frei-;t cars. The highway components include: (i)
paving of three two-lane gravel roads (110 km); (ii) widening of one road (6
km) from two to four lanes; and (iii) construction of a 17 km new road between
Fetesti and Cernavoda on the two arms of the Danube to shorten the distance
between Bucharest and Constanta. Technical assistance comprises a traffic
optimization study (150 man-months) and related study visits abroad by
Romanian officials as well as other such visits in connection with
improvements in car control and loeomotive utilization and in highway
maintenance practices. Provisions have been made for the equivalent of about
30 man-months for such visits. Visits to Romania by foreign experts in
connection with the traffic optimization study are also envisaged.
l/    Subsequently increased to 830 freight cars, which formed a part of
the total requirements of CFR's 1981-85 acquisition plan (Table 11
of SAR) which was appraised by the Bank.



-4-
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01       The project was designed mainly to relieve transport bottlenecks
and mounting congestion on some of the most heavily trafficked railways and
road sections. These lines and road sections connect several large cities and
industrial areas and are of critical importance both for the transport network
and the country. Parallel to the overall economic growth objectives, the
Government was keen to reduce inter-regional disparities in development levels
and to generate employment opportunities in rural areas with the development
of small-scale processing units. The project was, therefore, designed
especially to address some pressing socio-economic problems by the suitable
provision of regional, secondary and feeder roads, so essential for the less
developed regions to cater for and induce economic development. The major
thrust in the project design was the construction of the combined road-cum-
rail bridges over the two arms of the Danube on the Bucharest-Constanta
corridor - which was probably Romania's most critical transport bottleneck.
4.02       In the project designing stage, the Romanians for the first time
prepared transport feasibility studies using methodology customarily employed
in Bank projects. As a result of the Bank's subsequent reviews of these
studies and discussions with officials, a number of marginal components
originally proposed for inclusion in this project were either reformulated or
postponed. More important, however, was the traffic optimization study to be
carried out under this project. The principal objective of the study was to
review the existing procedures for determining transport linkages and the
modal split with a view to conserving energy, improving inventory control and
more closely aligning tariffs to service-specific costs. The study was
designed to assist the development of local skills and formulate a policy
framework within which further development of the Romanian transport sector
could be considered.
4.03       The total project cost was estimated at about US$767.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of about US$330.7 million. The Bank
financed only US$125 million, the balance of the foreign exchange costs as
well as the local costs being financed by the Romanian Government. The Bank,
provided financial support for the traffic optimization study to be carried
out by Romanian consultants mainly because this would help the country to: (a)
develop local skills needed to assist the modal institution and (b) establish
an appropriate basis to foster inter-modal co-ordination and provide the Bank
with significant leverage to assist in institutional development. The Bank
Loan did not exceed the foreign exchange costs of the project and it was more
a question of the Bank's preference for items to finance.
4.04       The Investment Bank (IB) of Romania, the Borrower, supervised the
execution of the project with the participation of the Ministry of Transport
and Telecommunications (MTTc), which was responsible for the overall co-
ordination of the project and project-related activities within the NTTc. The
proceeds of the Loan were passed on to the Railway Department and the Roads
Directorate for the railway and highway components included in the project.



-5 - 
Responsibility for the technical assistance element and coordination of the
traffic optimization study was vested in MTTc.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01       Loan effectiveness and proiect start-up:
The Loan (2034-RO) was approved on July 7, 1981 and was signed on
July 17, 1981 (Table 2, Pt III). The original planned Loan Effectiveness Date
(October 1981) was slightly delayed (to November 16, 1981) mainly because of
the unfamiliarity of the project executing agencies with Bank procedures and
requirements, as this was the first Bank-financed land transport project in
the country. Once the Loan was effective, the project took off smoothly.
5.02       Implementation schedule:
Originally all the project roads were scheduled to be completed by
the end of 1984 and the railway works by the end of 1985, with the possible
exception of the cantilevers to carry the roads over the two Danube bridges at
Fetesti and Cernavoda. A substantial number of civil works proceeded
according to schedule (Table 4, Pt III) and completed on target dates with
minor variations. During project implementation, a high-level Government
decision was taken to economize on the use of petroleum products in the
country which had an impact on the design of three of the project roads where
the asphaltic concrete pavement was, in consultation with the lank, altered --
without sacrifice of strength -- to one of Portland cement concrete. This
change resulted in an increase of initial investment cost which was gradually
neutralized over time due to lower maintenance cost. This change also
resulted in the need for bitumen (financed under the project) -- from 27,000
to about 16,000 tons -- reducing the cost eligible for reimbursement by about
US$3 million. However, as Romania had purchased equipment and materials
valued at about US$34 million, this reduction did not affect the Bank's rate
of reimbursement, which for this element of the project was limited to US$30
million.
5.03       The execution of civil works for several sub-projects, however,
faced significant delays (Table 4A, Pt III) due to unforeseen problems
encountered in tunnel construction and an unduly long delivery period for
steel for the mainspan superstructure of the Danube bridges. The construction
of several tunnels was greatly hampered by water infiltration and bad soils.
In consultation with the Bank, the MTTc employed advanced type shield
equipment to improve the productivity in tunnel works, and started working the
shields at both ends of the tunnel to speed up the works. These arrangements
did help improve productivity but could not fully recover the ground lost.
Furthermore, the MTTc introduced a new method of easing injections to
stabilize sandy soil in the tunnels for improving the rate of progress in
tunneling work, as well as a new system of worker rewards for increasing labor
productivity in relation to these works. Inadequate information at the ICB
prequalification stage regarding contractor's capability to supply steel for



- 6 -
the mainspan superstructure of the Danube bridges on time hindered progress
and significantly delayed completion of this important sub-project which in
turn greatly influenced the economic viability.
5.04       The completion of track overhaul of priority sections commenced
slightly behind schedule (Table 4B, Pt III) in some cases and a major portion
of the works was completed on schedule though overhaul of some sections was
delayed by a year or so. The quality of construction of civil works was, in
general, satisfactory.
5.05       The traffic optimization study began on time but progressed slowly
because of insufficient interest on the part of the Borrower and was completed
almost three years behind schedule (Table 6, Pt III). The Bank mission
maintained close liaison with the Consultants (ICPTT) carrying out this study,
exchanged ideas and clarified, at an early stage, the need to take into
account the costs of storing and maintaining inventories at each end of the
transport linkage in the study to arrive at a proper optimization of mode-
selection. This suggestion was accepted by the Consultant. The study
approach was comprehensive and the methodology followed was sound. But
because of excessive emphasis on energy conservation, the Government imposed
strict rationing of motor fuel and severe restrictions on the movement of road
transport, and did not fully apply the results of the study. Infrastructure
investments remained narrowly designed only to save fuel and the traffic split
remained highly skewed in favor of rail transport (para 6.11).
5.06       A major problem of implementation was faced in respect of the
training program component included in the project. The project envisaged
training arrangements for improvements in car control, locomotive utilization
and highway maintenance practices. After a delay of about 3-4 years, the
Borrower carried out a limited training program (Table 6E) and even within
this limited program, execution of the railway tunnel by mechanical methods,
which was agreed because of its importance for future infrastructure works,
was ultimately cancelled by the Borrower.  In spite of the urgent need for
technology transfer in the country, the Bank mission perceived a great
reluctance on the part of the country to offer adequate exposure to its
technical personnel abroad to familiarize themselves with the state-of-the-
art. This was most unfortunate, to say the least.
5.07       Procurement:
This was the first Bank-financed land transport project in the
country. Close Bank-Government collaboration was, therefore, essential,
particularly at the initial stage, to make the agencies concerned aware of
Bank requirements. In many instances the Bank mission found that technical
specifications, schedules of delivery and bills of quantities (lists of unit
prices) needed amplification to permit an adequate response from international
competitors. Based on the Bank's suggestions, the Borrower readily revised
the necessary documents. Romanian bidders were successful throughout, despite
considerable foreign competition for some items, where bids were so close that
the local preference provision had to be invoked. Because of intense
competition and lower bid prices obtained than those in the appraisal
estimate, considerable savings were realized in some items which were



-7-
subsequently utilized, in consultation with the Bank, for other important
items included in the project but which could not previously be financed
because of the limitation imposed by the loan amount. Regarding procurements
matters, procurement actions as a whole appeared at the time to be in
compliance with the letter of the Bank's procurement rules.
5.08       Project costs ane financing:
The estimated cost of the Land Transport Project at appraisal was
US$767.1 million. The final cost came to about US$611.2 million (Table SA).
The decrease in total cost of about 20% in terms of US dollars was due to
several factors. For instance, intense competition due to the introduction of
ICB resulted in a considerable savings in several items (para 5.07). The
changes in official exchange rates from time to time2 during project
execution also affected some savings. Furthermore, the amount of price
contingencies provided in the appraisal estimate turned out to be too much on
the liberal side. The structure of project financing was slightly different
from what was planned at appraisal. The share of railways net resources,
state resources and IBRD Loan towards financing the project was set at 24.3%,
59.4% and 16.3% respectively, at appraisal, as against the corresponding
figures of 29.4%, 50.2% and 20.4% actually obtained on completion (Table 5B).
A small amount ($0.2 million) was cancelled from the Bank Loan because of
incomplete implementation of the planned training program (para 5.06).
5.09       Disbursement:
For railwayr equipment and materials the Loan was disbursed against
the full ex-factory cosc of contracts won by Romanian organizations (para
5 17). Highways disbursements were made at 25% of total expenditures on civil
works, which roughly accounted for about 75% of the foreign costs of the sub-
project. Statements of expenditures, against which the Bank disbursed, were
submitted at regular intervals by the Directorate of Roads (DR) through IB.
However, no disbursements were made from the Loan allocation for highway civil
works until the Bank received satisfactory evidence from the Government that
ICB procurements were made for highway construction equipment and materials in
an aggregate amount sufficient to cover the requested withdrawals. This
procedure was adopted because the Bank did not insist on ICB for highway civil
works construction in Romania. The Bank realized that introduction of ICB
into civil works construction in Romania at that stage would require profound
legislative changes, the success of which could not be taken for granted, and
that there were substantial practical problems such as the availability and
price of labor and domestic inputs to enable any foreign civil works
contractor to operate satisfactorily in Romania. Given the situation, it was
considered prudent that a variant of the conventional system which protected
the principles of ICB and offered control over civil works performance was the
most desirable approach. Apart from at the very initial stage, actual
disbursements were faster than the appraisal estimates (Table 3, Part III).
The Loan was closed on May 1987 with a delay of only two months mainly to
2/    Exchange rates at different points of time are shown under
"Currency Equivalents".



- 8 -
explore the possibility of a better execution of the training program (para
5.06).
5.10       Loan covenants:
Compliance with Loan covenants was generally good in spite of some
delay in implementation of a few sub-projects and reduction in scope of the
training program (Table 7, Pt III). The Borrower's part (Pt II of the PCR) of
the Project Completion Report and the Government's comments on Part I of the
report are still awaited. (See note under Part II of the PCR)
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
6.01       Proiect objectives:
Overall, the project was successful in meeting its principal
objectives of relieving critical transport bottlenecks on the transport links
which were approaching saturation. The project also provided all-weather
access to a development area which remained isolated for a major part of the
year, and a transport link for a new mine. Improvement of management,
operation and monitoring of the use of the transport network was also
addressed with a limited amount of success through transport policy analyses
(particularly in respect to the modal split - paras 5.05 and 6.11) and
increasing use of methodology customarily used in the Bank for evaluation of
transport investments (para 4.02).
6.02       Physical targets:
The physical targets of the project have been achieved
substantially as planned (paras 5.02 and 5.03) with some slippage in time
schedule mainly due to unforeseen difficulties (sandy soil and water
infiltration) faced in tunnel construction and in the supply of steel for the
mainspan superstructure of the Danube bridges. The quality of construction of
civil works was good.
6.03       Economic gerformance:
The general and sub-project specific methodologies followed for
the economic re-evaluation of the completed project are, basically, the same
as those used at appraisal. For example, in Romania prices of railway
traction and rolling stock, rails, road trucks, diesel fuel, electricity and
several other important items influencing transport activity are significantly
below the border prices. For calculating economic benefits and costs, both at
appraisal and in the preparation of the completion report, international
prices (Table 34 of Staff Appraisal Report - SAR) have been used for such
tradeable commodities. Labor, land and other non-tradeable items like
"ballast and stones" have been valued at local prices in both situations. As
envisaged at appraisal, quantified benefits due to the proposed project
resulted mainly from reduced maintenance and operating costs.



-9-
6.04       Lower transport costs due to substantial distance savings in
specific cases, such as (i) the new Fetesti-Cernavoda road (a distance saving
of about 60 km); (ii) the road between Adjud/Podul Turculi and Birlad (a
distance saving of 40 km); (iii) the Craiova-Balchesti road (a distance saving
of 30 km); and (iv) the new Vilcele-Rm. Vilcea interlinked with doubling of
Rm. Vilcea-Podul Olt section (saving considerable distances in travel for
about 3 million tons of freight traffic per annum) amply justified the
investments made as assessed at appraisal (Table 6B Pt III), excepting the
Fetesti-Cernavoda road (para 6.06).
6.05       Electrification of three heavily trafficked lines, namely Dej-
Cluj-Simeria (carrying 33 million gross ton-km per route km in 1980), Mintia-
Arad (carrying 23 million gross ton-km per route km in 1980) and Faurei-
Tandarei (carrying 30 million gross ton-km per route km in 1980), which were
already prime candidates for electrification on economic grounds, was
postponed by the Government in the past because of unattractive financial
returns since CFR was receiving diesel fuel far below resource costs, although
Romania was importing substantial quantities of crude oil. Based on the Bank-
style feasibility studies prepared at appraisal and on completion,
justification of electric traction based on resource costs has been fully re-
established (Table 6B, Pt III). Doubling of the Ilia-Arad and Faurei-Tandarei
lines results in relatively high benefits as expected at appraisal because the
expenditures are for completing a relatively small portion of a large on-going
works, yielding full benefits on completion by avoiding substantial detour of
freight traffic on circuitous routes.
6.06       The actual traffic growth and its projection have been re-assessed
at completion. Railway traffic growth during the project construction period
(1981-65) and at completion compares favorably with appraisal estimates (para
6.10 and Annex 2B Pt III). However, the recent (1989/90) traffic figures
(Annex 2C Pt III) show a significant departure from the past trend and a drop
of about 301 in rail freight traffic (and 20Z in rail passenger traffic) in
one year, namely, 1990 compared to 1989. It is not clear whether this
declining trend in traffic will continue or there will be a modest recovery of
railway traffic from its 1990 figure during the next decade. For the purpose
of re-evaluation of economic returns (ERs) actual traffic trend up to 1990 has
been taken into consideration and thereafter two alternative scenarios have
been assumed. For railway traffic, (i) a drop of about 40% from the peak in
1989 to 2000 due to the on-going economic restructuring and, alternatively,
(ii) a modest annual growth of about 2 to 3% from the 1990 low traffic during
the next decade. It is possible that in reality the ERs will lie in between
the two bounds discussed. As regards highway traffic the recent traffic trend
(1989/90) shows that the declining trend of the 1980s has been arrested and
there is a growth of about 6X in freight traffic (and 11 in passenger traffic)
in 1990 compared to 1989. For the purpose of re-evaluation of ERs for highway
sub-projects, the actual traffic trend up to 1990 has been utilized and a
traffic growth of about 4X per annum has been assumed during the 1990s and
thereafter up to 2005. This assumption appears to be realistic particularly
because the road traffic has been suppressed by physical control and
regulations during the 1980s. Re-evaluated economic returns for the different
sub-projects (Table 6B Pt III) show that, due to an unforeseen downturn of the
economy in the late 1980s, the rate of return for the different sub-projects



- 10 -
is lower than the appraisal estimate(s) but still almost all the project
components remain well justified under the different scenarios discussed above
excepting one road stretch, namely Fetesti-Cernavoda, with a marginally lower
ER of about 10, which has particularly suffered due to the steep decline in
tourist trade. The overall project remains economically justified as
appraised with a weighted E.R. of about 15-16% (Table 6B Pt III). It should
be emphasized here that these estimates are, however, subject to a margin of
error, or uncertainty, considerably larger than is normally the case because
of inadequate traffic information; see Note to Table 6B and footnotes to Table
6A and Annex 2A.
6.07       Financial Rerformance (CFR):
The financial statements of Romanian Railways (CFR) including both
appraisal estimates and actual results for FY 81-85 are given in Annex 3-6 (Pt
III). The target for the railways was to produce for all activities combined
a benefit (profit) of about 12-l5%3 during 1981-85, and a return of more than
3% on the average net fixed assets in use during that period. These targets
were not optimistic since they were generally exceeded in the previous five
year plan period. However, the desired results were not achieved, and a
profit of barely 2-3% was realized in most of the years and the return on the
net fixed assets was below 3% during this entire period and was less than 2%
in 1982 and 1983. This was mainly because tariffs did not keep pace with
inflation, particularly with the significant rise in costs of diesel fuel and
electricity. The overall operating revenue of the railways, though, exceeded
the appraisal estimates in absolute terms in all these years, but was not
sufficient to offset an increase of about 20-30% in operating expenses (Annex
3, Pt III). Railways tariffs remained unchanged during all these years, and
only recently in 1990 has the tariff been more than doubled to reverse the
deteriorating trend.
6.08       The depreciation charges, together with benefits, still generated
adequate internal resources which enabled the railways to finance about 40 to
50 percent of its investments, the other half mostly being met through state
allocations (Annex 4, Pt III). CFR did not enter into any foreign loan other
than the Bank Loan during the period under review.
6.09       Repayable state allocations which were expected to rise by about
50% from about Lei 17 billion in 1981 to about Lei 26 billion in 1985 at
appraisal continued to increase more sharply during this entire period and
stood at Lei 47 billion in 1985 (Annex 5, Pt III). Consequently, the
debt/equity ratio projected at appraisal as 27/73 in 1985 actually worked out
at 36/64.
3/    Operating ratios (including track overhaul expenses) varying
between 85 and 88%. Capital overhaul of track, normally
capitalized, is in Romania charged to operations. When capital
overhaul of tracks is excluded from operational expenses,
operating ratios and rate of return on net fixed assets improve by
about 7-8% and 0.4-0.5% respectively.



- 11 -
6.10       The financial performance of the railways during the period under
consideration (1981-85) was interlinked with three basic factors, namely: (i)
traffic mix and its growth, (ii) railway productivity and (iii) input costs
and tariff adjustments. Traffic materialization on the railways compared
favorably with appraisal estimates for both passenger and goods traffic (Annex
2B, Pt III). As regards the commodity mix, principally increased coal
movement in bulk and relatively low volume of higher-rated traffic had an
unfavorable impact on railway finance to some extent. Appraisal expectations
of higher availability of electric/diesel locos, other rolling stock and staff
productivity did not materialize. This was primarily due to denied access to
critical inputs or spare parts from abroad due to the excessive compression of
imports and the elimination of foreign borrowing. However, utilization of
traction and rolling stock in 1985 improved in absolute terms compared to
1980. Rail tariffs remained unchanged despite increased input costs (para
6.07). Fortunately, a reduction of about 5,000 railway surplus staff
mitigated to some extent this adverse trend and the CFR continued to make at
least some profit. The latest operational statistics (1986-89, Annex 7)
indicate that the improvement in staff productivity was maintained during the
1980s and the turnaround time of wagons improved significantly during the
entire period 1980-89.
6.11       Techrical assistance and training:
The major technical assistance component under the project was the
traffic optimizatioa study. The study was designed to review the existing
procedures for optimizing transport linkages and the modal split, in order to
furcher sharpen and refine them, taking into account multiple objectives
including energy conservation, inventory control and the relation between
tariffs and service-specific costs. The Romanian Consultants (ICPTT) carried
out the studies in depth. The multi-criterial approach which was used to
compute economic (social) cost comparisons went beyond the criteria agreed at
appraisa'l and included a number of environmental considerations. The results
of the study were put to use starting in 1984, by some 2000 regional,
industrial, transport and planning agencies throughout Romania. However, the
optimization criterion used in the a-,-llcation was the "least energy"
criterion imposed by the Government to correspond to its prevailing policy for
the 1986-90 plan period. In short, the selection of optimization criteria was
not a result of the study but an administrative policy decision which resulted
in a highly skewed traffic split in favor of rail transport (Table 6D, Pt
III). The study demonstrated that even in the Romanian situation trade-off
points between rail and road transport costs, depending on the type of rail
terminal service (road or rail siding) and type of product vary considerably
even using economic-cost optimization, and can reach as much as 430 km on-road
(even with railway alternatives available) for high-value commodities. But
these results were not put to any practical use and remained a show-piece of a
theoretical exercise. The training program achieved only very limited
success, as stated earlier (para 5.06). For future training programs to meet
objectives, it would be advisable to take into account, inter alia,
participants' weakness or lack of knowledge in English so that adequate
preparatory arrangements could be made in advance.



- 12 -
VII. PROJECI SUSTAINABILITY
7.01       The project sought to relieve critical transport bottlenecks and
mounting congestion on some of the most heavily trafficked railway and road
sections in Romania and open up some areas which were isolated for much of the
year. The principal benefits of the project would accrue from savings in
operational and congestion costs, reduced travel time, greater safety,
increased comfort and convenience. Experience based on the completed project
would also enable them to compare Bank-style tnalyses with those previously in
use. The management and staff of CFR -iid DR are technically well qualified
and competent. Planning staff were quick to grasp Bank-style investment
analysis. There is, therefore, reasonable expectation that project benefits
will be sustained. The possibility of changes in the political environment
leading to a reversal of the on-going reform process in the transport sector
could be a potential risk to sustaining the institutional benefits generated
by the project. It is essential that continuity be maintained to strengthen
the groundwork laid in the first land transport project. Romania's unilateral
decision to discontinue borrowing from the Bank in the late 80s hampered close
Bank-Government collaboration for further progress in the transport sector and
stood in the way of the consolidation effort of project benefits, particularly
adequate implementation of the training program (para 5.06). With the recent
opening up of the country, much of the lost ground may well be recovered.
Based on the results of the traffic optimization study, the Government should
encourage equitable treatment of all modes in their access to capital, foreign
exchange and markets and allow the transport market to respond freely to
users' choice.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01       Through the Land Transport Project, the Bank made a positive
contribution to the physical and institutional development of the transport
sector.   Inclusion of both rail and road components in the same project
helped to take an integrated view of the land transport system during
supervision stage and identify some of the system-wide problem such as
infrastructure investments narrowly designed only to save fuel. Close project
supervision by the Bank helped speed up and improve productivity in critical
tunnel and earth works. The procurement actions on the whole appeared to
proceed satisfactorily, except procurement of steel for the mainspan
superstructure of the Danube bridges (paras 5.03 and 5.07) because of timely
action taken by Bank missions to assist the Borrower to carry out the
necessary amplifications in technical specification, schedules of delivery and
Bill of Quantities, to permit adequate response from international competitors
(para 5.07). At an appropriate stage of the traffic optimization study, the
Bank mission argued the need to include the implications of inventory holdings
on cost and choice of transport mode selected. The study group had not
previously considered this aspect fully, but appreciated and implemented the
Bank mission's suggestion. The Bank's flexible approach towards pavement



- 13 -
design without sacrifice of strength (para 5.02) was also greatly appreciated
by the Borrower. Because of intense competition and lower bid prices obtained
than those in the appraisal estimates, considerable savings were realized in
some items which were subsequently utilized, in consultation with the Bank,
for other important items, such as freight cars, excavators, etc. included in
the project but which could not be previously financed because of the
limitation imposed by the Loan amount (para 5.07). The Borrower fully
appreciated the Bank's helpful and reasonable approach in this regard.
However, in retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt from the
experience of the project:
(a)            Considering the large size of the combined rail-cum-road
bridges on the two arms of the Danube, the Bank could nave
advised the Government to introduce International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for such major highway civil works. This could
have been an important breakthrough and the country could have
reaped the benefits of international competition to make the
sub-project more cost-effective'. Such an approach could
possibly also have avoided many of the problems encountered in
implementing this important sub-project (para 5.03);
(b)            The Bank should have been more forceful in persuading the
Government to implement the findings of the traffic
optimization study through appropriate distribution of traffic
among the different transport modes mainly by economic criteria
rather than administrative policy decisions and physical
regulations imposed by the Government (para 6.11). It is,
however, understandable that the political climate in those
days was rather hostile for a successful application of the
study results but now with the opening up of the economy and
on-going restructuring process, the Bank should encourage the
Government to adopt a more market-oriented transport system;
(c)            A lack of continuity in the Bank's supervision, particularly
during Romania's unilateral decision to discontinue borrowing
from the Bank (para 7.01) near the end of this project (1986-
87) removed considerable Bank leverage in addressing the
institutional issues and to a great extent led to the poor
implementation of the training program. Furthermore, in the
planning of future training programs it would be advisable to
take into account, inter alia, participants' weakness or lack
of knowledge in English so that adequate preparatory
arrangements could be made in advance.
4/    Introduction of ICB in a similar situation in Hungary
(construction of Budapest by-pass including two bridges on the
river Danube) in a Bank-financed project paid rich dividends.



- 14 -
ix. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01       On the whole, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.
Background action taken for Loan Effectiveness and timely disbursements
(mostly ahead of appraisal schedule) of the Bank Loan bore ample testimony to
that effect. The quality of construction of civil works included in the
project was satisfactory. The technical approach to the traffic optimization
study was comprehensive and sound. IB, MTTc, CFR and DR are all well-managed
organizations and they maintained good co-operation amongst themselves.
Compliance with the loan covenants was generally good, excepting the training
program element (para 5.06 and Table 7, Pt III).
X. BANK-BORROWER RELATIONSHIP
10.01      Good relations between the Bank and the Borrower contributed to
clarification and resolution of many issues (paras 5.02, 5.03, 5.05 and 5.07)
that arose during project implementation. However, a lack of continuity,
particularly following Romania's unilateral decision to discontinue borrowing
from the Bank (para 8.01c), resulted in inadequate attention being paid to
institutional issues, particularly the training program and use of the traffic
optimization study results (Table 6D & E, Pt III).
XI. CONSULTING SERVICES
11.01      The Romanian authorities insisted that the traffic optimization
study be undertaken by Romanian consultants since foreign consultants were not
familiar with the Romanian system. The Technological Research and Design
Institute for Transport (ICPTT) in Romania was entrusted with this task,
mainly to help the country develop the local skills required to foster inter-
modal co-ordination. The quality of the Consultant's work was satisfactory
(para 5.05 and 6.11).
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01      The appraisal report and the Loan documents were well documented
and provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower for review
of project implementation. Supervision reports contained in-depth, on-going
analysis of physical, financial and operational aspects of rail/road sub-
sector, in general, and project components in particular, excepting in 1986 at
the end of the project completion stage due to Romania's unilateral decision
to discontinue borrowing from the Bank (para 7.01). Timely submission of
audit reports of the CFR also facilitated preparation of the PCR.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECr
(LOAN 2034-RO)
PART II - ROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORRQWER'S PERSPECIV



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BOSRROWiRSPERSPECTIVE
The project principally reflected the political decisions of the former
leadership of the country, and to a lesser extent the criteria of efficiency
and economic return. The economic and political decision-making factors at
that time directed that the extension of IBRD loans be followed by local
measures being taken which made it compulsory that bids be awarded to local
suppliers. Accordingly, the foreign exchange loan amounts made available by
the IBRD were mostly used for the external payments balance.
However, an independent analysis of lessons learned reveals these to be the
same as those to be derived from the majority of projects benefiting from
World Bank loans, namely:
1) difficulties faced by the Bank in obtaining the data, especially those
regarding the overall transport sector, required for the perspective
analysis, i.e. overall need, priorities and plans for all transport modes;
2) delays experienced in the implementation of civil works, due on one hand
to unforeseen factors (water infiltration and bad soils in the case of
several tunnels) and on the other to certain political decisions
(economizing on the use of petroleum products, the effect of which was to
change the way in which three roads within the project were built);
3) delays in the supply of locally manufactured goods, for instance the metal
parts required for construction of the superstructure for the Danube
bridges;
4) reduction to a minimum level of the loan amounts to be used for imports,
which explains the limited implementation of the programs for the training
of technical staff abroad.
Irrespective of the aforementioned facts, one has to appreciate the efforts
undertaken both by IBRD and by the institutions involved which succeeded,
following special cooperation during procurement and supervision, in finally
achieving project implementation.
This is the appropriate occasion to congratulate IBRD on their insistence that
a study of transport optimization be prepared. This study, although it was
not taken into account at the time, is now being used to meet the emerging
needs of a transportation system operating according to the requirements of a
market economy.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RO)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2034-RO)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CONTENTS
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Table 2: Project Time Table
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Table 4: Project Implementation
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
S. Project Finandng
Table 6: Project Resuits
A. Economic Benefits
B. Economic Rate of Retums
C. Financiaimpact - Romanian Railways (CFR)
D. Project Study
E. Training Program
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Table 8: Staff Inputs
A. Bank Missions
B. At Headquarters
Annex 1 - Ust of Equipment Procured
Annex 2 - Traffic Trends
A. Comparison of Actual and Forecast of Traffic on Project
Sections.
B. Modal Traffic Trends - Comparison of Appraisal
Estimates with Actual.
C. Recent Traffic Trends (1989/1990)
Annex 3- Audcted Financial Statements (1981.85) - Income Statements
Annex 4 - Avdted Financial Statements (1981-85) - Cash Flows
Annex 5- Audited Financial Statements (1981-85) - Balance Shts
Annex 6- Key Indicators for Romanian Railways (CFR)-Operation (1980.85)



.20-
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
(in Millions US Dollars)
Year of  Loan
Title    Loan No.  Approval Amount Purpose                                   Comments
Danube-   1794   1980    100.00   To assist In the construction of a 64-km canal    This was the first transport
Black                             from Cernavoda on the Danube to South      sector project and the loan
Sea                                Constanta Agigea on the Black Sea in order to    was fully disbursed in May
Canal                              provide an energy efficient and cost effective  1982 and the cana. has been
Project                            means of transportation.                  open to traffic since May
1984. PPAR No. 6565
December 23, 1986.
Source: Bank Mission
February 1991



-21 -
Tabe 2: PROJECT TIME TABLE
Date                         Date
Item                                            Planned                      Actual
Preparatlon by the Country                                            February 1979 - January
1981
First Presentation to the Bank
and first Bank mission to
consider the project                                                  March 1979
Appraisal mission                                                     September/October 1980
Negotiations completion date                                          May 29, 1981
Board Approval                                                        July 7, 1981
Loan Signature                                                        July 17, 1981
Loan Effectiveness                        October 1981                November 16,1981
Loan closing                              March 31, 1987              May 1987 1/
Project Completion                        June 30, 1986               October 30, 19882/
Source: Bank Mission
Februarv 1991
1/ Loan was fully disbursed after cancelling an amount of US$ 0.22 million.
2/ Delayed due to unforeseen difficufties experienced in tunnelling works and delivery of main span super structure
for Danube river bridge.



-22-
Table I LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(in Millions US Dollars)
IBRD                 Appraisal             Actual                Actual as %
Fiscal Year           Estimate                     Disbursement          of Estimate
Dec. 81                6.1                   0.0                   0.0
June 82               28.2                  16.0                  56.7
1983
Dec. 82               51.4                  55.2                  107.4
June 83               75.3                  81.5                  108.2
Dec. 83               96.4                  106.9                 110.9
June 84               109.4                 119.3                 109.0
Dec. 84               117.0                 123.6                 105.6
June 85               121.0                 124.4                 106.3
Dec. 85               123.0                 124.5                 101.2
June 86               124.0                 124.8                 100.6
1987
Dec 86                124.8                 124.8                100.0
June 87               125.0                 124.8 1/                     100.0
Source: Bank Supervision Reports.
1/ About US$ 0.2 million was cancelled and the final disbursement was made on March 24, 1987.
Febmtu 199



- 23 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A - COMPLETION OF CML WORKS CONSTRUCTION 1/
Scheduled      Actual
Total     Completon      Completion
Ouantiy    at appraisal    Date          Comments
A. RAILWAY COMPONENT
I. NEW UNES
1.1 Vlcela-Rm. Vilcea            39.6 km     Sept. 1985     Nov.1988      Unforeseen difficulties
experienced In tunneling works
1.2 Babenl Barbesti               37.0 km    Dec. 1984      Dec. 1986    In operation since Dec. 198
II. UNE DOUBUNG
2.1 RmC Vilcea-Podu Oq!t          39.6 km     Dec. 1985     Dec. 1985
2.2 llia-Arad                     64.0 km     Dec. 1985     May 1988
2.3 Faurel-Tandarei               20.0 km     Dec. 1983     End 1984
Ill. ELECTRIFICATION OF UNES
3.1 Dej-Cluj-Slmeria             236.0 km    June 1984      Nov. 1984    In operation by end 1984
3.2 MInta-Arad                   142.0 km     Dec. 1985     Mid 1986      Operational June 1986
3.3 Faurel-Fetesti                89.0 km     Dec. 1985     Jun.1984
IV. DANUBE BRIDGE (Cemavoda)                    Dec. 1982      Oct. 1987    Delivery of steel for the main
span superstructure was delayed
B. HIGHWAY COMPONENT
1. PAVING OF lWO-LANE GRAVELROAD
1.1 Schtu-Golesti-Curtea de Arges    41.0 km  Dec. 1984     March 1986
1.2 Crabova-Balcesti             23(40)km    Dec. 1984      Dec. 1984
1.3 Adjud-Birlad                 29 km       Dec. 1984      Jun. 1984
II. WIDENING FROM TWO TO FOUR LANES
2.1 Brashov-Harman                6 km        Dec. 1984     Jun. 1984
III. FOUR LANES BETWEEN BRIDGES
3.1 FetestWCemavoda               17 km       Dec. 1984     Oct. 1987     See Cemavoda against item (IV)
above
1/ In addition (a) 830 ralwvay freight cars Included In the Loan have been supplied as scheduled and (b) technical assistance
and training program amounting US$ 1.0 million Included in the project always remained behind schedule.



- 24 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
B - COMPLETION OF TRACK OVERHAUL - PRIORITY SECTIONS
Rail Type                     Year
to be          Year in        Overhaul
Priority              Length   Overhauled      Overhaul      Actually
No.  Secions                km         (kg)         to Commence  Commenced   Remarks
1.  Golest-Vilcele          30.0       49             1982          1983        Overhaul of all
2.  IIla-Birzava            64.0       60             1982          1982        Priority Sections
3.   Videle-Caracal 11     105.0       65             1981          1982        Completed before
4.   Brasov-Deda           228.0       60             1981          1981        June'8 instead of
5.  Tecucl-Jasi            100.0       65             1982          1983        December84 planned
6.  Simeria-Hunedoara        9.0       49             1981          1982        at appraisal.
7.  Simeria-Pestis          10.0       60             1982          1981
8.  Alexeni-Tandarei        65.0       65             1981          1980
611.0
February 1991
Source: Supervision Reports and Staff Appraisal Report



*25-
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A - PROJECTC
Anaraisal Estimate          Revised Estimate             Actual
Items            Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
-U US$ milflon            -     US$ million-        -US$ million
Railway Component
New lines                    86.4   39.3   125.7     107.2   49.2    157.0    109.4   48.0   157.4
Une doubling                 63.6   37.9   101.5      62.0  32.1      94.1     53.0   25.0   78.0
Electrification
& signalling             46.0   84.6   130.6      44.1   75.2    119.3     40.0  61.1   101.1
Danube bridges               75.8  50.3   126.1       86.3  52.5    138.8      78.5   45.5   124.0
Freight Cars                   0   12.2    18.2       1       9Q3     297       9.4   136    23.0
Rail Subtotal           277.8  224.3  502.       310 0  28_2    290.3  193.2   4
Highwav Comoonent
Paving of 2-lane
gravel roads               25.3   11.6   36.9       25.3   12.5     37.8     24.0   10.2   34.2
Widening 2 to 4 lanes         1.7   1.2    2.9         2.9    1.5      4.4      2.9    1.3    4.2
New Constructon              706   17.9   88.5        72.4   1 3       .7      71.1   17.2 82.3
Hinhway Subtotal         97.7   3Q2   128.4       100 6   3213 32 9        98.0  287   126.7
Technical Assistance          QZ    Q3       1.0      Q0 5    _        0.8      0      0.2    1.0
Subtotal                 376.2  25.   63t5        411.1  261.5    672.6    389.1  222.1   611.2
Physical Contingencies       37.0   24.3    613        -      -                 -      -       -
Price Contingencies          23.2   5 1    74.3       _       -       _                       -
Total                   436.4  3307   767.1      411.1  261.5    672.6 I/ 3891  222.1   611-.2 1/
I/ Physical and price contingencies included.
B - PROJECr FINANCING
Source                 Planned       Revised           Final             Comments
US$ million
CFR NET Resources           186.7          200.0            179.6       Regarding co-financing proposed
State Resources_/           455.4          347.6            306.8       by the Bank, Romania was
IBRD's Loan 3/              125.0          125.0            124.8       considered capable of financing
the balance of Foreign exchange
Total                    767.1          672.6            611.2       costs, as well as, local costs.
2/ State Resources Include interest-free State Budget Allocations, interest bearing State Credits and differences between
Bank estimated costs of imported items (both direct and indirect) and catalog or contract prices charged to MTTC which
are otherwise absorbed by the State pricing mechanisms.
3/ Include Technical Assistance of 15 million Lei (US$ 1.0 million) to be financed in full from the Bank loan.
Februarv 1991
Source: Supervision Reports and Staff Appraisal Report



.26-
Page 1 of 4
Iable 6 PROJECT RESULTS
A - =NQyQMIC BENEFITS I/
Beneft 1/
at Full Ooeraton
Revised Estimates on
Completion of Works when
Estimated at                Rail/Road Sections were
Appraisal                   open to Traftc
(in million Lei)
RAI-L SgCTIONS
1. Now Unff
1.1 Babenl-Barbesti                       140                              285
II.  Doublina gt LUi
2.1 llia-Arad                              230                             235
2.2 Faurei-Tanderel                        100                             103
11. New Lines and Doublina of Unes
3.1 ViDcele-R Vllcea and Rm Vilcea Podu Oft    450                         455
IV. ElriGgWcat1on
4.1 Dej-Cluj-Simeria                       220                             224
4.2 Mintia-Arad                            150                             153
4.3 Faurel-Tanderel                        70                               74
llOAD SECTIg
V. Paving of Two Lane Gravel Roads
5.1 Schitu Golesti-Curtea de Arges          35                              37
5.2 CrakNa-Balcesti                        18                               16
5.3 Podul Turculul-Birlad                  25                               21
VI. Widenina of Two-to-Four Lanes
6.1 Brasov-Harman                          10                               10
Vil. First Two Lanes of Eyentual Four EMes
7.1 Fetestl-Cemavoda                      180                              172
VIII. Combined Rail/Road Bridoe
8.1 Danube Bridges                        350                              355
1/ Include savings in operational costs, maintenance costs and passenger travel time on two highly congested highway,
sections, namely Brasov-Harman and Fetesti-Cemavoda (see Annex 2). The benefit estimates are subject to a margin of
error considerably larger than Is normally the case; see footnote to Annex 2A.
March 1991
Source: Mission Estimates



-27
Page 2 of 4
Table  PROJECT RESULTS
B - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETUBNB (ER)
Project                                 Appraisal                      Revaluated at
Component                               Estimate                        Prolect Completion
(most Probable ER %,-
Sc.1 1/             Sc.2 2/
RAILWAYS
I. Now line
1.1 Barbeni-Barbesti                        13                  13                 15
II. Doubilna -of Lines
2.1 IIla-Arad                               40                  23                 25
2.2 Faurel-Tanderel                         70                  43                 44
III.  New U     Rne and Doublno of Line
3.1 Vilcele-Rm Vilcea & Rm Vlcea-Podul      22                  15                 17
-V. Electrifcato-n
4.1 De-CluJ- Simerda                         21                 18                 19
4.2 Mintla - Arad                           20                  20                 22
4.3 FaureiTanderel                          24                  1                  18
Sub-Total                   24 /               17 /                19a/
RC2AD SECTIONS
V. Paving of Two Lane Gravel Roads
5.1 Schitu Golesti-Curtea de Arges           13                          12
5.2 Cralova - ialcesti                       19                          18
5.3 Podul Turculul - Biriad                  17                          14
VI. Widening from Two-to-Four Lane
8.1 Brasov - Harman                          23                          16
ViI. First Two Lanes of Eventual Four
7.1 Fetesti - Cemavoda                        1                          10
Sub-Total                    15a/                        12 X/
VilI. Combined Rail/Road Bridae
8.1 Danube Bridges                           14                           13
Grand Totai                     20a/               15a/              16i/
jf Sc.1 - Scenario I assumes that the raiwNay traflic will continue to decline In the 1990s and will drop to about 40% of the
1989 peak level by 2000 A.D.
2/ Sc.2  Scenario 2 assumes that the railway traffic, after 1990 s actual drop, will recover modestly to the extent of about
2% per annum during the 1990s.
X/ Weighted Average.
NgWt: These ER estimates are subject to a margin of error, or uncertainty, considerably larger than is normally the case
because of inadequate traffic information; see footnote 1 to Table 6A, and footnote to Annex 2A.
Source: Mission Estimates, March 1991 and Staff Appraisal Report



- 28 -
Page 3 of 4
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
C - FINANCIAL IMPACT - ROMANIAN RAILWAYS (CFRI
Operating Ratio 1/_                  Return on Net Fixed Assets
Appraisal                           Appraisal
Year             Estimate         Actual_/           Estimate               Actual_/
1981                88               93                   3.3               2.2
1982                88               97                   3.3               1.3
1983                87               97                   3.3               1.8
1984                88               98                   3.3               2.2
1985                88               97                   3.2               2.7
1/ Operating expenses (including track overhaul expenses) divided by operating revenues.
2/ Based on audited financial statements - details are given in Annex 3, 4 and 5.
D - PROJECT STUDY
Typo of                    Purpose as Defined                                     Impact of
Study                     at Appraisal                Status                      Study
Traffic Optimization       To establish an            The study was delayed       Study results were not
Study                      appropriate basis for       and was completed by       satisfactorily applied to
developing a policy       the middle of 1987. The     the transport sector.
frame work for the         quality of the study was   Motor fuel was strictly
economic development       satisfactory.              rationed and
of the transport sector                               regulations/restricions
and for the efficient                                 were imposed to curb
utilization and co-                                   motor fuel oil
ordination of transport                               consumption.
facilities. To be                                     Consequently, present
completed by the end of                               traffic split remains
1983.                                                 highly skewed in favor
of rail transport.



-29-
Page 4 of 4
Table : PROJECT RESULTS
E - RAINING PROGRAM
Purpose as Defined
at Appraisal                                  Status                                  Remarks
30 man-months of          The Loan Agreement envisaged that necessary arrangements for the
technical assistance for  training would be finalized by the Borrowver In Consultation with the
the methodological        Bank by June 30, 1992. After a delay of about 3-4 years, the  Even within this
aspect of the traffic     Borrower carried out a limited training program as shown below.  limited program,
optionalization study                                                                 training on
referred in Part D        SUNieQj Countr  No.of Men days Man-dav                      execution of railway
above and for             1. Railway traffic safety  France  2    7      14           tunnel by
improvements In car       2. Optimization study                                       mechanical
control, locomotive          methodology       USA         3     24      72           methods was
utilization and highway   3. Tech. and comm. aspect                                   agreed, but was
maintenance practices.       of running goods   France/    3     15      45           ultimately
train.           Canada                                 cancelled.
4. Traffic Management  Sweden/    2    15
W. Germany
_ _~~~~~~~
March 1991
Source: Supervision Reports



.30-
TIll: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement       Desoripion                                  Status
Reference
3.04(a) and (b)      Traffic optimization study to be oompleted  Study completed by mid-1985 and
by Dec. 31, 1984.                          the final report received in the Bank
In August 1985.
3.04(c)              Technical Asssance focusing on the          Arrangements for the training
training program lncluding Improvements In  program suffered a delay of three
car contro, locomotive utlizon, highway   to four years. A limited training
maintenanoe etc.                           program proposed and agreed with
the Bank was completed by
September 1987 except the training
for tunnelling.
4.01 (b)             Overhaul of 600 km of heavily used track.   Work on these lines were
completed with some adjustments
In the time schedule (see Table.3)
4.01(c)              Parallel development of mining and power    Complied with. The Babeni-Barbesti
sectors In BabeniBarbesti corridor.       new line was completed by the end
of 1988 and placed progressively in
operation. During 1987, the line
was carrying about 7 million tons of
coal to thermal power stations.
4.01(d)              Improvement of the Bucharest-Fetesti        Complied with.
highway contemporaneously with the
construction of the Fetest-Cemavoda road.
4.01(e)              Measures needed for carrying out of the     Complied with.
projt lndudir. prompt acquWon of land,
rights and interest In respect of land.
4.01(fl              Provsion of a suitable number of heavy-duty  The Romanians bought 4 heavy-
track maintenance machines, and about 80   duty machines from Plasser and
pieces of traffic counting equipment by    manufactured several heavy-duty
1985.                                      machines under Plassers license in
1985 and 1986. For the highway
component the Romanians bought
about 190 units of loop traffic
counting equipment in 1985/86.
6.02(fl and (g)      Finandal staements and audied reports to    Complied with.
be submtted wihin siX months of the end of
the fcal year.
6.020)               Project Completion Report                   Complied with.
Enbruary lJ91
Source: Supervision Reports



-31 -
Page 1 of 2
TbIl: STAFF INPUTS
A - BANK MINQIONS
Stage of             Month/               No. of        No. of        Staff Weeks    Date
Prolect Cycle        Year                 Staff         Weeks         In Field      of Report
Identffication    March/79         4             2              8            March 30,1979
Preparation   September/79         3             2              6            October 3, 1979
Pr2-appraisal    March/80          5             3             15            April 24, 1980
Appraisai     September/80         6             4             24            November 11, 1980
Post-Appraisal  March/81           4             2              j            April 16, 1981
Sub-Total                                        61
Supervsion
1.        September/81          3             2             6             October23, 1981
2.         March/82             2             2             4             Aprl 16, 192
3.        June/82               3             2             6             June 29, 1982
4.         September/82         3             2             6             October 18, 1982
5.         March/83             1             2             2             April 11, 1983
6.         September/83         2             2             4             September 30, 1983
7.         September/84         2             2             4             October 18, 1984
8.         March/85             2             2             4             Mwch 29,1985
9.         September/85         3             2             6             October 23, 1985
10.        April/86              1             1             1             May 16. 1986
11.        August/87             2             1            .2             September 21, 1987
Sub-Total                                       45
Grand Total                                    106
ELbruary Id9
Source: Supervision Repofs



-32
Page 2 of 2
Iable : STAFF INPUTS
B - AT HEADQUARB
Stage of               Month/                      No. of          No. of        Staff Weeks
Project Cycle          Year                        Staff          Weeks          at Headquarters
Preparation/           August - October 1979       3              4               12
Pre-appraisal          February- April 1980        5              7               35
Appraisal              August - October 1980       6              8               48
Post Appraisal         March '81                   4              1               4
Loan Negotiation       May'81                                                     A
Sub-Total                                                 109
Supervision            FY '82                      3              5               15
- do -                FY '83                      2              7               14
- do -                FY'84                       2              5               10
- do-                 FY'85                       2              2               4
- do-                 FY'86                       2              6               12
-do-                  FY'87                       1              3               3
-do-                  FY'88                       2              1               2
Completion Report      FY '90                      1              3               3
- do-                 FY'91                       2              4               _
Sub-Total                                                 71
Grand Total                                              180
April 1991
Source: Bank-s MIS



-33-
Annex 1
UST OF EOUIPMENT PROCURED UNDER THE PROJECT
Amount j/
Item                           Quantf                   fUS mDihion)
Ralhvav
1.    Rails                                     21,060 tons                   9.85
2.    Copper Contact-wire for electrification     1,287 tons                  3.64
3.    Cables for Telecom, Signalling for
electrification, new lines and doubling   2,060 km                    13.37
4.    Speclal Steel for Danube bridge            20,510 tons                  8.19
5.    Sub-station equipment                        357 pcs                    4.54
6.    Points and Crossings                         291  no                    9.41
7.    Track fittings                              8,850 tons                  6.08
8.    Equipment for remote control on electrification  162 pcs                0.65
9.    Equipment for telephone and radio communications 1,478 pcs              7.69
10.    High tensile steel for reinforcement for concrete
sleepers                                 4,000 tons                  3.00
11.    Railway freight cars                        830 no                     27.47
Sub-Total                                                       93.89  (say 94.00)
Hbhg
1.    Excavators (0.5 cm)                           9 no                      0.47
2.    Bulldozers (180 hp)                           8 no                      0.83
3.    Rollers (10-12 t)                             26 no                     0.63
4.    Motorgraders (180 hp)                         10 no                     0.85
5.    Concrete Batch Plant                          2 no                      0.30
6.    Mobile crane (120 hp)                         9 no                      0.69
7.    Loaders (180 hp)                              11 no                     0.58
8.    Dump Trucks (16.5 t)                          90 no                     4.50
9.    Bitumen                                   15,000  tons                  2.70
10.    Steel                                     44,000  tons                 18.82
Sub-Total                                                       30.37 (say 30)
1/     Commited at exchange rate of January 1, 1983.
February 1991
Source: Supervision Report October 1985



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
IBhEEl/IBFND
A - COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND FORECAST OF TRAFFIC ON PROJECT SECTIONS
Traffic (Gross t,on km In millions)
Railway                Length             1980       -     1985-
Lines                 of Route (km)        (Actual)    Appraisai  Revised
Estimate  Estimate jj
1.  Del - Cluj - Simeria        236             7812        8594      9080
2.  lIla - Arad                 125             2920        4892      5189
(doubling of
Ilia - Blrzava . 64 km)
3.  MInta - Arad                142             3317        5558      5873
(ElecStificatlon)
4.  Faurel - Fetesti             89             2625        2941      3107
(Doubling of Faurei -
Tanderel 20 km and
eletrification of
Faurel - Fetesti 89 km)
5.  RmViicea- Podul Ont          40              636         785      829
(doubling)
Road          Length                Daily Traffic (Number of Motor Vehicles)
Sections    of Route (kmn)   1980- -                            19
Actual             Aporaisal Est.           Revised Est. 1/
Trucks Others Total Trucks  Others  Total   Trucks  Others  Total
1. Adjud (Podul TurculuQ)
- Birad              29                                       o 800    -         575
2. Cralova-Balcest     40         320   480   800    440    660   1,100    350  450   800
3. Brasov-Harman        6        4,800  3,200 8,000   6,720   4,480  11,200  5,040      3,360 8,400
4. FetestCernavoda      17                            8,000  3,700   11,700 6,000       2,775 8,775
1/ These are crude traffic estimates based on nework totals for 1985. It would, of course, have been far preferable to have
had actual and up-todate trafc data for Individual rail and road links, In particular for the four links which were expected to
register very high traffic Increases because of traffic diversion. The Bank has repeatedly asked the Romanian authorities to
provide this information as well as the corresponding data for the links from which traffic was to be diverted. But, to no avail.
The resulting ER estimates, though the best available, are therefore subject to a margin of error, or uncertainty, coneiderably
larger than is normally the case, i.e. when actual and up-to-date traffic data are available.
March 191b



- .5 -
Page 2 of 3
B - MODAL TRAFFC TRENDS (1981.85)
- COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL ESTMATES WITH ACTUAL
Freiaht IVoum  in bilL tonm)                                                  Passe       VoL in blL Pass4kon
Railway            HlghA I/          Rhier              Total                Raiway             Highway 11            Total
A.E ?( Acual       A. E. 2 Actual    A. E. / Aual      A E. /Aaual          A. E. Aotuac        A. E g Actual     A. E.  /Actual
1980              75.5
1981      69.9    75.2      11.5    11.8          3.2      2.4      84.6   89.4       23.6   24.4       24.8      24.7        48.4     49.1
(888)  (84.1)    (13.6)  (13.2)        (3.8)    (2.7)    (100.0)  (100.0)    (486)  (49.7)    (51.2)    (50.3)    (100Q    (100.0)
1982       71.8   71.1      11.8    11.1          4.5      2.5      88.1    84.7      239    25.6       26.1      24.2        50.0     49.8
(81.5)  (89)    (134)   13.1)          (5.1)    (3.0)    (100.0)  (100.0)    (47.8)  (51.4)  (522)    (4&6)      (100.0)   (100.0
1983       73.8   72.3       12.1     8.3        17.2      2.4      103.1   83.0      24.2   27.6        27.4     21.4        51.      49.0
(71.7)  (87.1)    (11.7)  (10.0)      (1&6)    (2.9)    (I=Q)  (100.0)    (469    (58.3      (53.1)    (43.7)    (100.0)  (100.0)
1984       76.0   75.2       12.6     7.3        19.0      2.5      107.6   85.0      24.5   288         28.7     22.5        53.2     51.3
(70.7)  (88.4)    (11.7)   (6.6)      (17.6)    (3.0)    (100.0)  (100.0)   (48.0)  (561)    (54.0)    (439)     (100.0)  (100.0)
1985       78.4   74.2       13.3     7.5         21.0     2.8      112.7   84.5      24.9   31.1        30.0     21.7        54.9     52.8
(69.)  (879)    (11-8)    (9)         (1        (3.2)    =ag)  (O0.0)    (45.4)  (589        (54.6)    (41-1)    (100.0)  (100.0)
1/ Rebat  to Pubrlc Tramport only.
2/ A. E. indcates Appraisal Esimat
Note: Fgures wtin parentsis idcate percentge distibution.
Sourc - CFR and Supevsion MissioL



-36-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C - RECENT TRAFFIC TRENDS U       M19
Freiahlt olume in bill. ton-km)           Passenaers Nolume in bill. oass-km)
Railway   Highwayl/     River      Total           Railway     Highwayl/   Totai
(Actual)                                      (Actual)
1989      81.1         5.7         3.5        90.3            35.4        23.1        58.5
(89.8)      (6.3)       (3.9)     (100.0)           (60.5)     (39.5)     (100-0)
1990      56.1         6.0         2.5        64.6            28.6        23.3        51.9
(86.8)      (9.3)       (3.9)     (100.0)           (55.1)     (44.9)     (100.0)
1/ Retes to Public Transport only.
Figures wkhin parenthesis Indicate percentage distribution.
2/ Figures for 1990 are provisional.
Source: CFR and MTTC



-37 -
Annex 3
ROMANIAN RAILWAYS (CgR) - AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENTS
(Lel in million)
1981         1982           1983        1984             1985
Basic                 Appraisal      Appraisai      Appraisai    Appraisal      Appraisai
Advitv                 Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Foe-m     Forecast Actual Forecast Aaual
O0eratina Revenues
Passengers           4,134  4,327   4,170  4,650   4.211  5202   4,257  5,377   4,308   5,880
Freight             11.949 12.173    252 13354  1249  J        12    14.528  13.149  14.162
Sub-Total       16.083 16,500  16,422 18,004  16,709 19,228  17,065 19,905  17,457  20,042
Ooeratina Exoenses    14,214 15,417  14,393 17,371  14,530 18,585  14,707 19,469  14,906  19,3B8
Net Operating Income   1,869  1,083   2,029   633   2,179   643  2,358   436   2,551    654
Auxliary Activities
Revenues              751  1,056     779  1,808     780  2.168    781  6,851     782   1,446
Expenses              471      6      3    422 4  9 8 t4 537_ 4                         760
Net Auxillary Income  280   420      281   386      282   702    283  1,314     284    686
Total Net Income     2,149  1,503   2,310  1,019   2,461  1,345  2,641  1,750   2,835   1,340
Interest Charges        5   465  100 _/    94       133   124    474   141       565
Net Income           2.    1.498 I  224           2.37  1.212  2.57  1.218   2.9         a
Operating Ratio J      88    93       88    97       87    97      86    98       86     97
Return on net fixed assets   3.3   2.2  3.3   1.3     3.3   1.8    3.3   2.2      3.2    2.7
1/    Including track overhaul expenses. In Romania, capital overhaul of track normally capitalzed, is charged to
operations. Audited financial statements supplied by the Romanian authorities accordingly incdude capital overhaul
of track with operations and no separate figures for capital overhaul of track were available. To enable valid
comnparison appraisal, forecasts have been adjusted accordingly on the basis of the detailed figures given in Table
36 of the SAR. The relative picture remains unaffected because exdusion of capital overhaul of track improves
operating ratios and return on net fixed assets by about 7-8% and 0.4-0.5% respectively for both *appraisar forecasts
and *actuals.
2/    Mission estimates.
Februarv 1991
Source: Romanian Railways



- 38 -
ROMANIAN RAILWAYS (      -R . AUDITED FNAtANCAL STATEMENTS - CASH FLOWS         Annex 4
1981              1982             1983               1984              in
Apprasa           Appraial          AppraiaA Appna                         -
Es6tm       Acual Emate    Actal Estimate    Aual Esimate   Actual Esfimate  Actual
(Lei miMon)
SOURCES OF IUNDS
Cash avbbl fom ravav"s ad
1. Total not Inm  (benft               2,149   1,298     2,310    890       2,461 1,12       2,41  1,277  2, 8        1
2. Depcato (basic activ"               2117   2,153      2,211)             2,304            2,426            2,573)
3. Depredation (oa  assets)              124    129       127)  2,401        131 2,534         134  2,812      137)  2.819
4. Ot sc es (seap sales, OM)              la    in          In    197        10   228          117              125    149
5.      Sub-Totl hntemal funids        4,480   3,758     4,738   3,488      4,996 3,974      5,318  4,346     5,670   4,573
Stale AlocadonCrd
6. N        _neaag                         .       .         .         .        .                     
7. RepayaNe w^^** xnwnyst              3,123   1,521     1,754   1,411      2,132 2,345      3,471  3,719     3.924   3.478
EL  Repayblge wh knrest                   61    767         45   t.Q02        la   509          6     419       736    147
9.      Sub-Total state aloations/credits   3,184   2,288  1,799   2,433    2,191 2,854      3,537  4,138     4,660   3,625
Egernal E
10. Pfoposed I8RD Loan                    90               570    669        480   838         150   151         90       -
11. OOwl k:
12.     Sub4ot exwnaoloans                                      Q                  80          150  151
13.     Tot resource avlable           7,154   6,046     7,105   6,590      7,667 7,668      9,005  8,635    10,420   8,198
APPIUCATIONS OF FUNDS
Fowed Asse s
14. Addkons to fixed ats In use        6,419   6,617    5.192)  6,098       6,648 6e342      8,062  6,974    9,815)  7,143
15. Increase (decrase) in wokn-rogrpess  3Z  (1.064)      3        _         24                 22              413
16     Subo40t capital vestrmnt        6,746   5,553     5,517   6,098      6,892 8,342      8,084  6,974     9,402   7.143
DebtService
17. Interestpamsn                          5      10       46)    227         94   263         124   422       141)    710
1& RpaymenofprincOpal                     ;       if      U4                 a    166               _146       18    _-
19.     Sub4otal debt servioe             35      76        70    227        122   429         154   588        289    710
20. Not koeae (dooneae)                   38    111         25    (58)        10   242          35    31          9   (123)
Benefit Dismbdn
21. Not homem (bwene
used fo rnoncptal ptposes           ff       9        .9       2         4   g732  102                    720     46
22. Total resoures applied              7,734   6,046    7,105   6,590      7,667 7,666       9,005  8,635    10,420   8.198
FINANCING OF INVESTMENT FROM RAILWAYS
23. CapInvsment (kw 18)                 6,746   55       5,517   6,098      6,9  6,342        8,084  6,974     9,402   7,143
24. Lose edmal resources  ms  9 + 12)    3.274   228     2,369   3,102      2,671 3,692       3,687  429       4,750   3,625
25. Ralws resrs (net)                  3,472   3,285     3,148   2,996      4,221 2,650       4,397  2,S85     4,652   3,518
26. %ofcapithalh  estanced frm            51.5   58.9       57.1   49.1       61.2  41.8        54.6   38.5      49.4   49.2
hbrnml resOUres
Source CFR



- 39 -
Annex 5
CFR - AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6AIANCE SHEET SUMMARY
1981             1982              1983              1984              1985
Appraisai   Actual Appaisa    Actual Appraisa    Acd  Appraisa    Actual Apprais    Actul
Assets                       Estimate          Estimate    __   sEsnata _-Esbmatee
(W mnilrion) -
Fixed Assets                 120,179 120,434    124,702 126,331    130,615 131,451  137,867 139,807  146,792 146,88
Less Depreiaion               49.749  49.98      51.537   5223  _            S.0    9         .19    57.126  6.842
Net Fixed Assets              70,430  70,446     73,165  74,115    77,283  76,449   82,673  81,612   89,666  85,744
Add-Workoin Progiess           5.837  25.041      5      29.696      6.205  36.626    6227  42.310    S.814  486.0
Sub-Total                76,067  95,487     79,127  103,811    83,488 112,075   88,900 123,922   95,480 134,344
Current Assets                 2,531   3,612      2,626   4,177      2,711   4,726    2,816   6,040    2,901   6,734
Less: Current Liabilities      1.S10   &8         1.580   4.151      1.655   4.5      1.725   5.72     1.801   6i
Sub-Total                 1,021     28       1,046      26      1,056    223    1,091     312    1,100      79
Total                    77.088  95.515     80.173 103.837    84.544 11229    89.9   124.234   965   134.423
Liabilites and Eauitv
Long Term Debt
Foreign                        90        -        660     669      1,140   1,608    1,290   1,658    1,282   1,524
Local                       17.071  25.41      ,5   29.a28         WM   34.018   22.423  40.652   25.939  47.076
Sub-Total                17,161  25,041     18,915  29,697    20,695  35,626   23,713  42,310   27,201  48,6D0
Equity
Fixed Assets & retained benefit  59,927  70,474  61,258  74,141   63,849  76,672   66,278  81,924   69,379  85,823
Total                    77,088  95,515     80,173 103,838    84,544 112,298   89,991  124,234   96,580 134,423
Source: CFR and Bank Mission
February 1991



-40^
Annex 8
KEY INDICATORS FOR ROMANIAN RAILWAYS' OPERATION
(Actual)
A.  iLENGTH OF LQNE                km        11,110    11,093   11,125    11,106  11,169    11,192
Standard gauge                km        10,506    10,527   10,559    10,589  10,652    10,675
Narrow gauge                  km           559       521      521       472     472       472
Broadgauge                    km            45        45       45        45      45        45
B.  Traffic
Passengers                    million      348       378      375       414     433       460.0
Net tons                      million      275       274      271       280     289       284.0
Passenger-km                  billion       23.2      24.4     25.6      27.7    27.8      31.1
Net ton-km                    billion       75.5      75.2     71.1      72.3    75.2      74.2
Tariff ton-km j/              billion       65.0      63.8    62.8       63.6    65.1      64.3
Traffic units                 billion       98.7      99.7     96.7     103.0   103.9    105.3
Average passenger Joumey      km            66.7      64A      68.3      66.9    66.5      67.6
Average freight haul          km           236.7     233.4    232.2     227.7   225.1    226.4
Passenger gross ton-km        billion       28.2      28.6     29.9      31.2    31.3      30.6
Freight gross ton-km          billion      139.5     140.2    132.5     133.5   137.7    136.7
Total gross ton-km            billion      167.7     168.8    162.4     164.7   169.0    167.3
Gross ton-km per              million       15.1      15.2     14.6      14.8    15.1      14.9
route-km (of line)
Gross ton-km by type of traction
Standard aauae
Steam                         billion        0.2       0.2      0.1       0.1     0.2       0.1
Diesel                        billion      109.5     100.3    85.8       77.5    68.4      60.1
Electric                      billion       57.5      67.7     75.7      87.8   101.0    105.4
Diesel rail buses             billion        0.4       0.3      0.1       0.3     0.4       0.4
Narrow aauae
Steam                         million       18.0       -
Diesel                        million      192.2     246.8    239A      236.8   232.3    230.0
C.  UTILIZATION OF TRACTION AND
ROLLING   Q
Engine-km per engine-day
available (main line)
Passenaer traffic S.G.
Steam locomotives             km           181       178      178         -
Diesel locomotives            km           383       378      370       366     352       398
Electric locomotives          km           507       514      518       527     537       531
Freoiht traffic S.G.
Steam locomotives             km            98        38       61         -
Diesel locomotives            km           257       259      259       245     241       243
Electric locomotives          km           331       330      335       337     340       342
Turnaround time of S.G.
Freight cars                  days           4.57      4.43     3.99      4.00    4.11      4.08
Average load per freight
car loaded                   tons/axle     10.65     10.75    10.78     10.81   10.94     10.90
D.  STAFF
Employees '000                number       176.4     177.1    178.4     178.6   175.8    172.0
(175.8)  (176.1)   (176.4)  (176.7)   (177.0)
Traffic unit per employee     thousand     559.5     563.0    542.1     559.9   591.0    612.2
(586.1)  (598.9)   (609.9)  (623.6)   (638.6)
Employee per km of line       empl./km      15.9      16.0     16.0      16.1    15.7      15.4
1/ Tariff ton-km refers to charged km even when goods are carried over longer route for operational reasons.
Figures within parenthesis are appraisal estimates.
February 1991
Source: SupenMao Repons



- 41 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
ROMANIAN RAILWAY OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
(1986-1989)
Unit     1986     1987      1988     1989
A. Length of Line                     km    11221    11275    11298 11343
- standard gauge                   km    10704    10803    10826    10871
- narrow gauge                     km      472       427      427      427
- broad gauge                      km       45        45       45       45
B. Traffic
- passengers                     mil.      469       472      473      481
-net tons                        mil,      307       304      315      306
- passenger-km                   bil.     32.3      33.5     34.7     35.5
- net ton-km                     bil.     79.1      78.1     80.6     81.1
- tariff ton-km                  bil.     67.9      66.0     69.4     67.2
-traffic units                   bil.    111.4    111.6    115.3    116.6
-average passenger journey         km     68.9      71.0     73.4     73.8
- average freight haul             km    221.2    217.1    220.3    219.6
- passenger gross ton-km         bil.     32.4      33.0     34.9     35.3
- freight gross ton-km           bil.    135.4    143.0    148.8    148.1
- total gross ton-km             bil.    167.8    176.0    183.7    183.4
- gross ton-km per route
km (of line)                   mil.     15.0      15.6     16.3     16.2
Gross ton-km by type
of-traction
Standard gauge
- steam                          bil.      0.1       0.1      0.4      0.7
- diesel                         bil.     62.2      61.1     60.3     54.4
- electric                       bil.    113.5    112.8    121.7    127.4
- diesel rail buses              bil.      0.4       0.4      0.5      0.5
Narrow gauge
- steam                          mil.         -        -        -         -
- diesel                         mil.    240.0    230.0    180.0    270.0



- 42 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
ROMANIAN RAILWAY OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
(1986-1989)
Unit     1986      1987      1988     1989
C. Traction Stock
- Standard gauge
Stem locomotives                number     1213      1114      1021      995
in traffic                          X         -        -         -        -
Diesel electric locomotives   number       1495      1495      1492     1490
availability                        X       72        69        68       67
Diesel hydraulic locomotives  number        680       681       689      699
availability                        %       75        75        74       73
Electric locomotives           number       902       925       978     1019
availability                        X       82        84        84      83
Rail buses                      number      149       140       140      140
availability                        Z       60        59        54       52
- Narrow Gauge
Stea  locomotives              number        30        29        29       29
in traffic                          X       63        66       66        69
Diesel hydraulic locomotives  number         45        44        44       44
availability                        %       84        86        84       84
- Broad gauge
Steam locomotives              number        12        12        12       12
in traffic                          X       67        58       67        67
Diesel locomotives             number          6        8         8        8
availability                        X       67        75        75       75
Diesel hydraulic locomotives  number         16        16        16       18
availability                        X       75        69        69       72



- 43 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
ROMANIAN RAILWAY OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
(1986-1989)
Unit     1986      1987     1988      1989
D. Rolling Stock
Passenger cars                 number      5993     6068      6191     6213
- standard gauge               number      5864     5941      6068     6091
- narrow gauge                 number       125      123       119      118
- broad gauge                  number         4        4         4        4
- no. of seats              thousands    420.7    431.6    438.8    442.4
- no. of seats s.g.         thousands    416.9    427.9    435.3    438.8
- no. of seats n.g.         thousands       3.5      3.5       3.3      3.3
- no. of seats b.g.         thousands       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3
Freight cars                   number   139585   140912   142464   144028
Total capacity             thous.tons      6171     6250      6358     6458
Standard gauze                 number   138334   139666   141227   142791
Total capacity             thous.tons      6150     6228      6337     6436
Average car capacity             tons      44.2     44.6      44.9     45.0
Narrow gauge                   number      1224     1219      1210     1210
Total capacity             thous.tons        20       20        20       20
Average car capacity             tons      17.0     17.0      17.0     17.0
Broad gauge                    number        27       27        27       27
Total capacity             thous.tons         1         1        1         1
Average car capacity              tons       26        26       26        26
E. Utilization of Traction and
Rolling Stock
Engine-km per engine-dav
available (main line)
a) Passenger traffic S.G!
- steam locomotives                km         -        -         -         -
- diesel locomotives               km       397      387       388      385
- electric locomotives             km       538      542       536      536



- 44 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
ROMWANI  RAILWAY OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
(1986-1989)
Unit     1986      1987     1988      1989
b) Freight traffic S.G.
- steam locomotives                kmk
- diesel locomotives               km       249      248       234      299
- electric locomotives             km       350      346       341      399
passenger-km per                 mil.      5.39     5.52      5.60     5.71
passenger car                      km
passenger-km per             thousand      76.8     77.6      79.1     80.2
seat                          pass km
net ton-km per               thousand       567      559       571      568
freight car                   tons km
net ton-km per               thousand      12.8     12.5      12.7     12.6
ton cap. of fleet                  km
average load per                tons/    11.00    11.05    11.15    11.20
car loaded                       axle
turnar und time
of S.G. freight cars             days      3.79     3.90      3.50     3.52
F. Staf
employees                      number   171400   171100   171400   171300
traffic unit per employee   thousand    649.9    652.3    672.7    680.7
employee per km of line    employees       15.3     15.2      15.2     15.1



1   22-  j   r   Zd'   '   20  ' ~  ,IBRD 15462R2
U     S      S     R
L_>U                      (FORMER)     R                                                       ROMANIA                W
>S~' '>~ e                            r                       7LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
-; X /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              S'4-.AIA AI'                                c ,  .  &o r
F., c"-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   0.H 00
< ; t ZEA--Y S z v \C/C   \   t   -|-   o   OX0  Ee  .......  mEO.e5 Ot,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ....
0    0                                                                                                      ' /
8                                                                B   U       G   AiR  R     A
FEBRUARY 1992



