Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3094-RO
FILE COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
,PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
June 16, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods effective January 1, 1981
Lei 15.00 = US$ 1.00
Leu- 1.00 = US$ 0.07
2. Tourist Rate effective February 15, 1981
Lei 11.00 = US$ 1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$ 0.09
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(Romanian equivalent, used in legal documents, shown in parenthesis)
CEM              -          Country Economic Memorandum
CFR (DEPCF)                 Romanian Railways (Departamentul Cailor Ferate)
COMECON          -          Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DR (DD)          -          Directorate of Roads (Directia Drumurilor)
ER               -          Economic Return
IB               -          Banca de Investitii (Investment Bank of Romania)
ICB              -          International Competitive Bidding
MTTc             -          Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
RCC (CCCF)       -          Railway Construction Central (Centrala de
Constructii Cai Ferate)
RDI (IPCF)       -          Railway Design Institute (Institutul de Proiectari
Cai Ferate)
RoDI (IPTANA)   -           Road Design Institute (Institutul de Proiectari
Transporturi Auto Navale si Aeriene)
RTC              -          Road Transport Central
RWC              -          Railways Workshops Central
bPC              -          State Planning Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Banca de Investitii (Investment Bank of Romania (IB))
Guarantor;          Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:      Railway Department and Directorate of Roads of the Ministry
of Transport and Telecommunications (MTTc)
Loan Amount:        $125 million
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including a three year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 9.6 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project seeks to relieve transport bottlenecks
and mounting congestion on some of the most heavily
trafficked railway and road sections in Romania and would
also open up some areas which are now isolated for much of
the year. The project consists of high priority items
included in Romania's 1981-85 railway and highway
Investment Plans and technical assistance. The railway
components include: (i) construction of 77 km of two new
lines together with about 7 km of tunnels, 3 km of bridges
and 2 km of viaducts; (ii) doubling of three line sections
of approximately 125 km; (iii) electrification of 470 route
km of main lines; (iv) procurement of special steel for the
superstructure of Cernavoda bridge over the Danube; and (v)
procurement of about 330 freigbt cars. The higbway
components include: (i) paving of three two-lane gravel
roads (85 km); (ii) widening of one road (6 km) from two to
four lanes; and (iii) construction of a 17 km new road
between Fetesti and Cernavoda on the two arms of the Danube
to shorten the distance between Bucharest and Constanta.
Technical assitstance comprises a traffic optimization study
(150 man-months) and related study visits abroad by
Romanian officials as well as other such visits in
connection with improvements in car control and locomotive
utilization and in highway maintenance practices.
Provisions have been made for the equivalent of about 30
man-months for such visits. Visits to Romania by foreign
experts in connection with the traffic optimization study
are also envisaged. RailTroad users from a wide range of
sectors and income groups would benefit principally from
the project in the form of reduced travel time, greater
safety,increased comfort and convenience. Transport cost
savings will accrue to the economy as a wbole from reduced
operating and maintenance costs and improved utilization of
traction and rolling stock. The project faces no special
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.1 -
risks in the context of Romania's planned economy which
helps to ensure that traffic forecasts and construction
programs will be realized.
Cost Estimates: /1                       Local         Foreign       Total
----------- US$ Million --------
Railway Component
New lines                           86.4          39.3         125.7
Line doubling                       63.6          37.9         101.5
Electrification                    46.0           84.6         130.6
Danube Bridge                       75.8          50.3         126.1
Freight Cars                         6.0          12.2          18.2
Rail Subtotal                  277.8         224.3          502.1
Highway Component
Road paving                         25.3          11.6          36.9
Road widening                        1.7           1.2           2.9
New road construction               70.6          17.9          88.5
Highway Subtotal                97.7          30.7          128.4
Technical Assistance                 0.7           0.3           1.0
Base Cost                      376.2         255.3          631.5
Physical Contingencies              37.0          24.3          61.3
Price Contingencies               _23.2           51.1          74.3
TOTAL                          436.4         330.7          767.1
Financing:                               Local        Foreign        Total
---------- US$ Million --------
Railway Internal Funds            186.7            -           186.7
State Resources                   249.0          206.4         455.4
Proposed IBRD Loan                  0.7          124.3         125.0
TOTAL                             436.4          330.7         767.1
Estimated Disbursements:
------------   US$ Million   ---------------
IBRD Fiscal Year    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual               28.2    47.1    34.1    11.6        3.0    1.0
Cumulative           28.2    75.3   109.4   121.0   124.0  125.0
Economic Rate of Return:            About 20 percent
Appraisal Report:    No. 3344a-RO, dated June 15, 1981
EMENA Projects Department
1/ Local costs include taxes; Foreign costs do not.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE BANCA DE INVESTITII (INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA (IB))
FOR A LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banca de Investitii (IB), with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, for the equivalent of USb125 million to help finance a Land
Transport Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.       The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) was circulated to the Executive Directors on August
20, 1980 (Report No. 2757-RO). An economic mission visited Romania in
May/June, 1981; its tentative findings are included in this part of the
report. Country social and economic data are given in Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.       Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
teatures of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy has
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by party and government authorities.
4.       As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by a rapid economic growth and considerable
structural change. According to official statistics, national income has
grown in real terms at an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita
GNP in 1979 is estimated to have been $1,900, according to the Bank Atlas
methodology. Investment has grown at even higher rates than national income,
as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen to about
34 percent in 1980. Industry, which grew at 11 percent per annum over
1970-1980, has been the driving force of economic growth, receiving around 50
percent of investment, most of which has been allocated to the capital goods
industry. As a result, industry has become the leading sector, accounting in
1980 for about 62 percent of national income and for 36 percent of the labor
force, compared with agriculture's 12 percent share of national income and 30



- 2 -
percent of the labor force. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to
industry, the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of
living have increased substantially, partly because of the growth of personal
incomes and partly because of provision through the state budget of expanded
and improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of
other kinds. Furthermore, Romania's integration into the world economy has
increased, as the level of trade has grown and its composition altered.
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.       During the last Plan period (1976-80), the expansion of the Romanian
economy has slowed down perceptibly. The average annual rate of national
income growth of 7.2 percent was below that of the previous plan period (11.3
percent), and growth has been decelerating, falling from 11.2 percent in 1976
to 2.8 percent in 1980. These changes reflect the emergence of a number of
internal and external constraints, notably the pace at which improvements in
productivity and efficiency can be attained; the ability of the economy to
bring new capacity into operation as planned; a growing shortage of foreign
exchange; and shortfalls in exports.
6.       Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.  However,
the growth of industrial production also slowed down from an average of 12
percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 6.5 percent in 1980. As in the
past, the growth of capital goods exceeded that of consumer goods and the
fastest growing subsector was machine-building. Agricultural production grew
at a respectable average rate of 6.1 percent during 1976 to 1980, displaying
however, large annual variations due to changing weather conditions.
7.       As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts and
stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps were
followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve domestic
oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and hydropower
resources. Total domestic primary energy production was virtually unchanged
between 1975 and 1980; increases in production of natural gas, coal and
hydroelectric power compensated for a 20% reduction in petroleum production.
Primary energy imports (oil, coal and natural gas) increased 2.5 times. This,
together with the increased international price of oil, has been the main
reason for the deterioration in the foreign trade balance (see paragraph 10
below).
8.       During 1976-80 investment fell about 7 percent short of planned
levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the planned annual
growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met, partly because
of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of earthquake damage.
Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 10 percent a year--in itself a very
respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment does not reflect
difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources, but a number of
supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints of design



institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction materials, capacity
constraints in the construction sector, production delays for domestically
produced equipment, and more restrictive foreign exchange allocations for
imported capital goods.
9.       Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied the
growth and structural change of production. The total labor force increased
by only 0.4 percent per year during 1976-80, but large intersectoral shifts in
the labor force continued. During the five year period, the agricultural
labor force fell from 36 percent to 30 percent of the total. The outflow from
agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of non-agriculture
sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate for the loss
through mechanization, has led to seasonal labor shortages; recourse has been
necessary to students and other groups to meet short term labor needs. The
Government recognizes that the transfer of labor has to slow down to avoid
adverse effects on agriculture output, and is thus giving even greater
emphasis to increases in labor productivity.
C.  External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
10.      In foreign trade, developments in the 1976-1980 Plan period have been
substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those planned.
The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum for imports
and 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade surplus which would
allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt. During 1976 to 1980 Plan
period, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate of 17 percent and
exports of 15 percent in current prices. This resulted in a sharply growing
trade deficit which in 1980 reached $1.6 billion, virtually all of it in the
convertible currency area. On the import side, the deteriorating trade
balance reflects rapidly rising international prices, especially for
petroleum. Export growtb has been unable to keep pace with import
requirements, partly because of less favorable price movements in Romania's
principal export markets. The insufficient growth of exports is also
explained by the vulnerability of Romanian exports to import demand
fluctuations and import policies of the receiving countries, and to
difficulties in meeting design and quality standards and establishing
marketing policies essential to extend the foothold in highly competitive
product markets.
11.      The large trade gap together with rising interest payment has led to
a current account deficit in convertible currencies of $2.4 billion by 1980.
The deficit has been financed through increased capital inflows, with total
medium and long-term debts rising from $2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$7.4
billion at the end of 1980. Most of the inflows bave been suppliers' credits
and eurocurrency borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost $1.7 billion on the
eurocurrency market since 1975.  The scale of term borrowing available to
Romania has not been sufficient, however, to finance the current account
deficit fully and the Government had to resort to substantial short-term
borrowing between 1977 and 1980. The net inflow of short-term capital was
particularly large in 1979, $821 million, and by the end of 1980, outstanding
short-term debt had increased to $2.1 billion.



-4-
D. Development Prospects
12.      A new Five-Year Plan for 1981-85 is presently under preparation, and
is expected to be submitted to the National Assembly for final approval in the
near future. A draft of the plan has recently been approved by the Council of
Ministers and further changes in the broad thrust of the plan are not anticipated.
The new plan will give priority to the completion of ongoing projects. This
is reflected in the new investment law, published in December 1980, which
includes measures designed to speed up project implementation. Production
gains will mainly come from these projects as they come on stream, and from a
generally higher utilization of existing capacities. Investment is thus
planned to grow at lower rates than production. Overall growth targets are,
however, expected to be significantly lower than those of the preceding
Five-Year Plan.
13.      Special emphasis will be given to narrowing the energy gap through
rapid development of domestic resources and through further savings in energy
consumption. The plan envisages: (i) stabilizing oil production at the level
of 12.5 million tons per year and natural gas at approximately the 1980 level;
(ii) more than doubling coal production between 1980 and 1985; (iii)
installing additional hydroelectric capacity for 2,500 mw. The implementation
of the above program would result in an increase in domestic primary energy
production of the order of 20% above the 1980 level. It would require
successful implementation of the enhanced recovery program in oil production,
some success in oil exploration and a massive mobilization of technical and
manpower resources for coal production. Energy savings are to be achieved
mainly by giving more emphasis to less energy intensive investments together
with retrofitting and other measures to save energy in existing plants. In
addition high energy consuming industries such as oil refining and cement may
have to curtail their output.
14.      In the manufacturing sector priorities will shift from basic products
such as steel or bulk chemicals for which adequate capacities already exist or
will come on stream in the next few years, to more sophisticated goods
including electronic equipment, special-purpose machine tools, specialty
steels and other high technology products. Light industry including food
processing, will continue to expand. A growing share of industrial production
is planned to be exported. Local industries are expected to manufacture most
of the capital goods required for the investment programs.
15.      While industrialization will remain the primary objective of the
plan, agriculture will receive greater emphasis than in the past.
Mechanization, drainage and higher fertilizer application are seen as the
principal means to increase crop yields. With an improved feed base,
livestock production is also planned to increase. The additional output from
agriculture would be partly exported but would also allow higher consumption
levels at home.
16.      The strategy of the draft plan, which responds well to Romania's
economic challenges, is also reflected in the sectoral composition of the
investment program which gives greater emphasis to energy production and less



- 5 -
to heavy industry than realized in the last plan period. Total real capital
expenditure may not be much higher during 1981-85 than in the previous plan
period. Investments in metallurgy are expected to grow little, and the
machine building sector will actually invest less than during 1976-80 since
substantial additions to capacity were initiated during the previous plan.
Moderate increases in investment are contemplated for agriculture, transport
and housing.
E. Creditworthiness
17.      With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 10 and 11
above, the debt service payments in convertible currencies (including interest
on short-term credits) rose to $1.73 billion in 1980 or the equivalent of 22.7
percent of gross convertible exchange earnings. The debt service ratio was
20.5 percent in 1979 and 17.4 percent in 1978. To contain future deficits and
to keep the service burden manageable, the Government has recently adopted a
series of measures aimed at increasing exports and restraining imports. The
most important one has been the introduction of a new exchange rate mechanism
in early 1981 which allows world prices to be reflected more directly to users
of imports and producers of exports. This will provide incentives to
economize on imported goods, to substitute domestic products for imported
ones, and to produce for export markets where better prices could be
obtained. Romania has just signed a three year stand-by agreement with the
IMF which calls for a reduction of the current account deficit to $1.8 billion
in 1981 with further reductions in 1982 and 1983. The Fund is prepared to
lend up to *1,356 million!l to Romania; part of these funds would be used to
consolidate short-term debts and part to build up the low foreign exchange
reserves. Given Romania's strenuous development efforts within the context of
well articulated plans, these measures and possible future steps aimed at
enhancing exports and economizing the use of imported inputs, are likely to
succeed in keeping the country's debt burden within manageable limits, thus
preserving its creditworthiness for medium and long-term borrowing.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,987.6 million for 31 loans in agriculture, industry, power and transport.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of May 31, 1981.
19.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
1/ SDRs 367.5 million per year or a total of SDRs 1,102.5 million; valued at
$1.23 = lSDR.



- 6 -
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the becond Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. Also, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in total
were concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project
for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April 1979 and the Third
Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was made in January
1980. More recently, another $200 million syndicated cofinancing loan from
commercial banks was concluded in January 1981 for the Danube-Black Sea Canal
project tor which a Bank loan of $100 million was approved in April 1980.
Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations with commercial banks, the
Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the positive value of cofinancing
in the form of financial credits, and have indicated their intention to seek
similar arrangements for future Bank assisted projects. Bank lending also
aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Marketing, especially for export goods, is also
emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where production is
still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
20.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for irrigation, industry, power, and regional development. The Government has
also proposed and the Bank is considering lending for a port project and for
the development of additional petroleum resources.
21.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
22.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from otber sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank constituted about 8.5 percent of Romania's total
convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1980 was 5.1 percent.



-7 -
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Transport System and Organization
23.      Despite the existence of extensive mountainous areas, Romania has a
fairly well developed and evenly distributed transport network that provides
access to all major centers of economic activity. It includes about 11,000
route-km of railways, 73,500 km of roads, one major sea port, four main
commercial river ports and a sizeable network of inland waterways and
pipelines. The Danube, which is navigable, flows through 1,075 km in Romania,
mainly along its southern border. Ninety percent of the foreign trade is
handled through the port of Constanta on the Black Sea. Pipelines have been
the principal carriers of petroleum and natural gas.
24.      Responsibility for all transport modes other than aviation and
pipelines rests with the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTTc).
Aviation bas a separate Ministry and pipelines are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Geology. MTTc's organization also includes
construction and maintenance enterprises. The role of officers and staff of
the Ministry's headquarters is largely limited to planning, coordination,
design, administration and budgeting. For construction and actual transport
operations, much authority is delegated to regional units and to centrals!/
and the enterprises within them.
Traffic
25.      Rail and road are the most important modes of inland transport in
Romania. For freight, rail is dominant in terms of ton-km, accounting for 67
percent in 1980, though its share is slowly declining, while the share of road
services at 25 percent has been rising. In terms of tons, bowever, road
services are dominant (85 percent). Road traffic functions mainly as a
short-haul mover. Danube river transport and pipelines at present account for
about 2 percent and 5 percent of ton-km respectively but the river and canal
share is expected to rise sharply to about 15% when the Danube-Black Sea
canal, now under construction,is fully operational. As for passenger traffic,
the railways' former dominance passed to roads in the late 1960s and the
current rail/road split is about 27/73.
26.      Neither the truck fleet nor the highway system is adequate to make
trucking a flexible long-haul alternative to railroads. The limited emphasis
on road development is best understood within a broad view of Romania's
transport strategy, with industrial development being a key factor in the
development of the transport system. In response to the policy of uniform
1/ The Central is an economic unit subordinate to but separate from a
ministry, with responsibilities for planning, supervising and coordinating
the operations of enterprises under its jurisdiction. It is also
responsible, through subordinate enterprises, for research, design and
foreign trade.



- 8 -
regional development, large industrial enterprises, which account for more
than 80 percent of gross industrial production, are dispersed countrywide.
Distribution of industrial and consumer goods is based on distribution centers
which have been established in every "judet" (county). While transport from
those centers within the judet is by road, this pattern of geographically
concentrated development of production and consumption centers has favored
railways because of their ability to handle dense freight traffic flows from
one distribution center to another, wbich are generally well equipped with
sidings and handling facilities for bulk traffic. About tbree quarters of
railway traffic moves from siding to siding. The present high technical
efficiency and quality of service of the railways is another
contributing factor to their greater use.  Furthermore, the Droduction of
consumer goods and light manufacturing industries, which normally promote the
development of road transport, are less developed. As such industries grow in
the future, dependence on road transport may be expected to increase.
Transport Planning and Policy
27.      Planning in the transport sector is an iterative process and follows
the basic approach used for all of Romania's centrally planned economy.
Transportation projects included in the Plan originate both at the micro level
through the enterprises and county authorities (especially for municipal and
local roads) and at the macro level through the State Planning Committee
(SPC). The demands for transport by the economic enterprises and sectors are
reconciled by the SPC with the existing capacities and expansion plans of the
transport enterprises. The latter are determined after a review of all
expansion plans and the setting up of priorities within the allocated
investment budget. Review and coordination of new investment proposals are
the responsibility of MTTc, which submits its program to the SPC.
28.      In Romania the principal objectives of transport are:  efficient
provision of transport services with complementary development of the
different modes, lowering of the share of transportation costs in the total
costs of the economy, and reduction of energy consumption. To these-ends, the
authorities are fostering the use of rail and water transport for long and
medium distance commodity hauls and of road transport for short hauls, the
development of integrated transport facilities (e.g., containers), and the use
of common carriers in preference to transport on own account.
29.      Energy has become a critical subsector for the Romanian economy.
Having started to import oil in 1968, Romania became a net importer of energy
by 1977, and in 1979 was expected for the first time to import more crude oil
than was domestically produced. In 1979, rail and road transport consumed
about 2.6 million tons of oil products, accounting for about 14 percent of the
total domestic consumption of refined oil products. Special measures were
taken in July 1979 to curb fuel consumption, by raising gasoline prices for
private cars to Lei 7.50 ($0.50) a liter (the second increase in 1979),
restricting weekend driving, and reducing the number of taxis and official
cars. Restrictions were also imposed on the movement of trucks, particularly
"own transport", while gasoline rations for state, cooperative and public
property cars were halved. Diesel fuel previou.ly priced at about Lei 1.7
($0.11) per liter for railways and Lei 1.1 ($0.07) per liter for road transport.



enterprises was raised in Janury 1981 to Lei 2.23 ($0.15) per liter for both
modes. These increases of 36 percent and 114 percent for rail and road
transport respectively are in keeping with a new policy on pricing regulations
adopted in December 1981 which aim at gradually adjusting domestic prices of
imports nearer to their cost. Even with this upward revision diesel fuel
nevertheless remains signiticantly below the international price which by
comparison, in April 198J, was about $0.42 per liter. Although the role of
public transport is given preference, the constant overcrowding of buses and
trains is evidence that passenger transport has not received the resources it
deserves. Further, the revenue foregone by the Government due to lower fuel
prices to the railways and road transport enterprises is recovered to a
substantial extent in the Romanian system through the benefits (profits) of
these state-owned enterprises.
Transport Coordination
30.      Each user of transport service is required to specify transport needs
approximately a year in advance. Bulk commodities, which account for 70
percent of traffic, are subject to an optimization process which links
producers and consumers so as to minimize transport costs. Producers of other
commodities are linked to specified regions. For each commodity there is a
coordinator at the Ministry responsible for production/distribution, who
determines these linkages, selects the transport mode and informs accordingly
the beneficiaries (producers and consumers) who enter into contracts. The
selection is mandatory, subject, however, to appeal by the transport
beneficiaries. The coordinators select transport modes on the basis of a
computer program which has been prepared by MTTc. The program takes into
account tariffs (as a proxy for costs), distance, transit time, and reportedly
packaging costs, damage, energy consumption and transport capacity
constraints. However, it is not clear that the present traffic split is
optimal, because the program does not take into account border pricing, the
cost of inventories which is not charged to beneficiaries, and route and
service-specific costs. The proposed project, therefore, includes a study on
traffic optimization, to be completed by the end of 1984, (Loan Agreement,
bection 3.04(a)) which would assist the economic development of the transport
sector, and is expected to provide a firmer basis for the efficient and
economic utilization and coordination of transport facilities.
Tariffs and Costs
31.      Rail, road and inland water transport tariffs are prepared by MTTc
and approved by the State Committee on Prices. Rail freight tariffs had been
l'ad valorem", high valued commodities subsidizing others, until 1974 when a
cost-based system was introduced. The principal criteria for rail freight
rates are wagon type, net loading and length of haul. Basic movement costs
per km are calculated for each category on a system-wide average basis,
without allowance for difficult terrain or other adverse conditions which are
route specific. A further margin is added to allow for a 15 percent planned
surplus for the system as a whole. Road tariffs are also cost-based, the main
criteria being truck type, net load and length of haul. However, road users
unlike rail users do not make a direct contribution to the maintenance of
roads which are provided as a public utility.



- 10 -
Railway Subsector
Organization
32.      Under the Romanian system of centralized State control, the railways'
headquarters organization is contained within MTTc under collective
management. Of six groups within the Ministry, each headed by a Ministerial
Associate, four are concerned with railways. The first Ministerial Associate
(Deputy Minister) is responsible for Railway Operations in the entire country
which is divided into nine Regions. A second deals with traction and rolling
stock, fixed installations, revenue control, and data processing. A third
looks after finance and prices and oversees the Railway Workshops Central.
The fourth is concerned witb the Railway Construction Central and the Railway
Design Institute. The latter two Ministerial Associates also share
responsibility for the road subsector so that coordination, rather than
competition, between the two modes appears inherent in the Ministerial
structure and is reinforced by the Council of the Ministry, its higbest
decision-making body. Two otber Ministerial Associates are concerned witb
maritime and river transport and posts and telecommunications. The Council
and its Executive Bureau are chaired by the Minister and include all
Ministerial Associates and certain beads of departments and units. The
Railway Department, the controlling body for Romanian Railways (CFR), consists
of the units responsible to the first two Ministerial Associates.
33.       The managements of each of the nine Regions are responsible to the
first Ministerial Associate. A typical region is governed by a Workers'
General Assembly meeting annually and a representative Workers' Council
meeting quarterly to review performance against plan. The Council also
establishes five-year development plans within the State framework. The
Regions depend upon the headquarters to provide certain essential services.
For example, feasibility studies and detailed engineering for railway works
are carried out by the Railway Design Institute. The Railway Construction
Central (RCC), one of the biggest construction units in Romania, executes
works for railways, primary roads, airports and Danube ports and produces
construction components such as pre-stressed concrete sleepers. The Railways
Workshops Central (RWC) has six workshops carrying out periodic maintenance
and major overhaul of traction and rolling stock beyond the capacity of
regional workshops. It also includes separate groups for the manufacture of
parts for repair and modernization of rolling stock and for assembly.
Operations
34.      The Romanian railways' average traffic density of 15 million gross
tons per route-km, is one of the highest in the world. Its operational
efficiency has been steadily improving and is generally high, comparing
tavorably with other European railways. However, problems which need to be
closely monitored are the deterioration in the turn-around time of bogie cars
and in the utilization of diesel locomotives. While the former is due to
delays at terminals because of traffic growtb and pressure on customers'
storage facilities, the latter is largely due to increasing use of electric
traction superseding diesel on the more important routes carrying long



- 11 -
distance through traffic and also the possibility that traffic planning on the
secondary lines may not be optimal. The authorities are aware of these
problems and are studying the possibilities of constructing adequate storage
facilities and are testing the application of a recently developed
computerized car control program in one of the railway regions. To ensure
that over-investment in new cars does not take place, an understanding was
reached with the Government that it would keep the Bank informed about the
measures taken to improve the turn-around time of wagons and factors affecting
it and that it would review procurement of new cars in the light of such
improvements. Similarly, improvements in locomotive utilization may be
possible through the adoption of a computerized system of locomotive
scheduling as used in some European railways. Provision for tecbnical
assistance for this is included in the project.
35.      Availability of electric locomotives is acceptable at about 85
percent (1979) in light of their domestic manufacture wbich was begun
relatively recently but should improve to about 90 percent by 1985 when
initial teething troubles should have been overcome. Confirmation was
obtained during negotiations that procurement of electric locomotives would be
reviewed in the light of availability improvements. Due to the very high
density of traffic, track occupation for maintenance purposes has been
inadequate resulting in arrears of maintenance and severe speed restrictions.
For remedying the situation the Borrower has agreed that about 600 km of high
priority track shall be overhauled mostly with 60/65 kg rail and that heavy-duty
track maintenance machines will be introduced on the railways during the
period 1981-85 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (b) and (f) and Guarantee
Agreement, Section 2.03.).
Railway Investment Plans
36.      The Railway investment plans are prepared as part of the National
Plan. All investments are subject to careful technical and economic
scrutiny. However, economic analysis is made at domestic prices only, and no
attempts are made at border pricing. The payback period is heavily relied
upon in the economic and financial analysis. While transport investments
approved so far appear broadly satisfactory, a broadening of the investment
analysis methodology is an objective of the proposed project.
37.      The total investment planned for the Railway subsector for the next
Plan period (1981-85) is Lei 36.6 billion ($2.4 billion). Over half the total
investment expenditures are for traction and rolling stock (one quarter for
replacements and three-quarters for additional capacity). The proportion of
expenditures allocated for the remaining items such as line doubling,
electrification and new line construction appears reasonable and responsive to
the needs of the Romanian economy. Of the total planned expenditures, about
54 percent will be financed from the Railways own funds, about 42 percent from
the btate Budget and the balance of 4 percent is expected to come from the
proposed loan. Capital overhaul of track is charged to operations and is not
part of the railway investment plan. About 3,000 km are to be overhauled with
new rail during 1981-85 including the high priority sectons referred to in
paragraph 35.



- 12 -
The Highways Subsector
Organization and Planning
38.      The Directorate of Roads (DR), under MTTc, is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of the national road network, which comprises
some 14,700 km, or about one-fifth of the country's total network. The
remainder, including district and village roads, is administered by the judet
authorities who receive guidance as needed from the Directorate.
39.      For national roads, a five-year plan is formulated on the basis of
improvements identified by the enterprises, industries, and ministries who use
bighway facilities extensively, and is coordinated at the Republic level.
Detailed annual plans are prepared one year in advance and their implement-
ation is monitored by both the DR in the physical sense, and by the Investment
Bank, the proposed Borrower, which oversees expenditures. The planning of
provincial and local roads is coordinated at the Republic level and, as
needed, technical advice is obtained from both the DR and the Road Design
Institute (RoDI), a department of IPTANA, an institute, which is also respon-
sible for air and sea transport designs within MTTc. Provincial and local
authorities bear the responsibility for construction and maintenance of local
roads and for meeting the planned targets. The DR and the RoDI are also
responsible for preparing feasibility studies and the final engineering
designs. For national roads, investment projects are executed by MTTc's
Railway Construction Central. Road works are competently supervised by the DR
assisted by the RoDI.
The Highway Network and Maintenance
40.      Romania has about 73,500 km of roads of which only about 50 percent
are paved. The bulk of the network (about 58,700 km) are district and
communal roads which are administered by the provincial authorities. Of
these, only about one-third were paved as of the end of 1980. Of the national
road network comprising some 14,700 km, about 14,000 km are paved. Demands of
vehicle usage have increased considerably and bave resulted in inadequate
capacity on certain key links in the network. In some cases, lack of
all-weather access to areas not served by other transport modes has been a
deterrent to progress and development. In others, poor surface conditions,
plus narrow, winding alignments and in many cases excessively steep gradients,
bave imposed barsh cost penalties on vehicle usage. Only one road, that
between Bucharest and Pitesti (100 km) is built to modern expressway standards
with limited access (dual carriageways separated by central median).
41.      The maintenance allocation for national roads is about 60 percent of
the total expenditures for such roads and is about $5,000 per km, wbich
appears high compared with other European countries with similar conditions.
Although, to a limited extent, such a high cost reflects the maintenance needs
of some of the 'unmodernized' roads where the old light pavements are
subjected now to heavy traffic loads and are distressed, the expenditures also
include some asphalt overlay work which should rightly be a charge to the
capital budget. Maintenance practices are in general labor intensive and



- 13 -
suffer because labor is in short supply. Many of the routine tasks could be
performed more efficiently and better by machine and it is an objective of the
technical assistance element of the project that the study visits for key DR
personnel should include their exposure to latest maintenance practices
elsewbere.
Road Transport
42.      The Road Transport Central (RTC) under MTTc is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the public road transportation fleets for the
carriage of both passengers and freight. All transport users have access to
RTC vehicles. RTC's vehicles are normally used in intercity services and an
important objective is to minimize empty hauls. With the help of a network of
agencies which coordinate the requests for transport users and the collection
of goods, dead mileage is kept to a minimum. Road transport is developing
rapidly and the vehicle fleet has approximately doubled at an average rate of
nearly 12 percent per annum from about 538,000 vehicles in 1972 to 1,016,000
in 1978. Further increases in this rate are expected as the domestic
production of motor vehicles expands, particularly with the coming into
production at end 1981 of a new Citroen plant wbich will add 150,000 units per
year. As a result, traffic forecasts may well be exceeded, especially the 4.7
percent yearly growth estimated for passenger traffic, aggravating the
congestion which already exists on key links.
Highway Investments and Financing
43.      Roads and road transport accounted for nearly 25 to 35 percent of
total investments in the transport sector during the seventies and are
expected to maintain this share over the next plan period (1981-85). Road
investments (excluding road transport) are planned for about 7,900 million Lei
($527 million), about 6 percent above 1976-80 expenditures in real terms. The
expenses on national roads are financed largely from the State Budget and the
expenses for district and local roads are met from the local budgets. The
sources of income of these budgets are part of the benefits (profits) of
enterprises and a variety of national and local taxes.
Previous Bank Activities in the Sector
44.      The proposed project will be the second in the transport sector and
first for rail/road development. The Bank approved a loan (Ln. 1794-RO) of
$100 million equivalent in January 1980 to assist in the construction of a 64
km canal from Cernavoda on the Danube to South Constanta-Agigea on the Black
bea, which would provide energy efficient and cost effective transportation,
adding a new dimension to inland waterways. The project is well in hand and
the progress of work has generally been satisfactory.
The Borrower
45.      The Borrower for the proposed loan would be Banca de Investitii
(Investment Bank of Romania (IB)), which is the Government's specialized
agency, for financing projects in all sectors of the economy except in



- 14 -
agriculture (including water resources) and food processing. It has a large
technical and economic staff at its Headquarters, and brancb offices
throughout the country. The IB's involvement in investment projects commences
in the preparation phase; it appraises all major projects technically and
financially according to Romanian procedures and, in the case of the proposed
project, has facilitated the economic analysis by the appropriate agencies of
ali components according to Bank methodology. MTTc staff wbo bad attended
EDI's transport courses (para. 21) also played an important role in this
exercise.
46.      The IB makes recommendations to the Council of State on major
projects and their financing. All investment funds for an approved project
are channeled through the IB which authorizes payments for work performed in
accordance with the approved plan. It is the IB's responsibility to ensure
that a project is executed according to the financial and technical data
included in the final approval and its inspectors supervise projects to ensure
progress according to the approved schedule. The IB will supervise the
execution of the proposed project with the participation of MTTc. The
proceeds of the loan will be passed on to the Railway Department and the Road
Directorate for the railway and highway components of the proposed project.
Responsibility for the technical assistance element will be vested in MTTc.
As the Goverment's channel for investment financing in all sectors except
agriculture, the IB's primary source of funds is the State Budget; the
Guarantee Agreement therefore includes assurances that all necessary funds
would be provided by the Guarantor for the implementation and operation of the
proposed project.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
47.      The project was first discussed by the Bank and the Government in
January 1979. Preparation missions visited Romania in March and September
1979, followed by pre-appraisal in March 1980. The project was appraised in
September/October 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1981.
The Romanian delegation was headed by Mr. Gheorghe Popescu, President of IB
and included representatives from IB and MTTc. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Romania, A Land Transport Project" (No. 3344a-RO,dated June 15,
1981) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the proposed project are summarized in the Loan and Project
bummary and in Annex III. A map showing the railway and highway components of
the project is attached.
Project Objectives
48.      The principal objectives of the Project are:  (a) to avoid transport
cost increases by providing timely relief of existing traffic congestion
through road and rail investments and increase in the capacity of transport
links which are approaching saturation; (b) to provide all-weather access to
a development area, which heretofore has been served by only a fair weather
track, and to provide transport for a new mine; (c) to improve economic



- 15 -
evaluation of projects; (d) to improve monitoring of the use of the road
network; (e) to assist in improving resource allocation in the transport
sector through a study on traffic optimization; and (f) to assist in
familiarizing the railway and highway organizations with recent developments
and trends in operating, monitoring and maintenance techniques utilizing the
latest technology.
Project Description
49.      The proposed project consists of high priority items included in
Komania's 1981-85 railway and highway Investment Plans. The railway
components include: (i) construction of two new lines totaling 77 km together
with about 7 km of tunnels, about 3 km of bridges and about 2 km of viaducts;
(ii) doubling of three line sections of approximately 125 km; (iii)
electrification of 470 route-km of main lines; (iv) procurement of special
steel for the superstructure of the Cernavoda bridge over the Danube; and
(v) procurement of about 330 freight cars being the initial requirement for
additional traffic utilizing the new and improved facilities in items
(i)-(iv). The highway components include: (a) paving of tbree two-lane gravel
roads (85 km); (b) widening of one road (6 km) from two to four lanes in an
important industrial and agricultural area; and (c) construction of a 17 km
new road between Fetesti and Cernavoda on the two arms of the Danube to
shorten the distance between Bucharest and Constanta. Provisions have also
been made for technical assistance (paras. 52 and 53).
50.      One of the new railway lines to be constructed would link a coal
producing area at Berbesti to the railway network at Babeni. Since this line
will serve a new coal mine which will feed an electrical power station being
converted to coal, agreement was reached at negotiations that complementary
mining and power investments will be made on time (Loan Agreement, Section
4.01(c) and Guarantee Agreement, bection 2.03).
51.      Construction of the railway bridges at Borcea, near Fetesti and
Cernavoda would shorten by about 60 km the main highway connection in
Romania's busiest corridor between Bucharest and Constanta on the Black Sea.
Cantilevers have been added to the two bridges to provide four-lane road
crossings. The project would include the construction of the intervening 17
km road between Fetesti and Cernavoda. The Cernavoda-Constanta highway is
being improved at present, and to ensure that full benefit is obtained from
the new construction agreement was reached at negotiations that necessary
improvements will be made on the Bucharest-Fetesti road contemporaneously
with the construction of the Fetesti-Cernavoda road (Loan Agreement, Section
4.01(d) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.03).
Technical Assistance
52.      The major technical assistance component under the proposed project
is the traffic optimization study. The study will review the existing
procedures for optimizing transport linkages and the modal split, in order to
further sharpen and refine them, taking into account multiple objectives
including energy conservation, inventory control and the relation between



- 16 -
tariffs and service-specific costs. Terms of reference for the study have
been discussed with the authorities and are acceptable.
53.      The Borrower proposes to have the study undertaken by Romanian
consultants. This is acceptable since Romanian institutes, such as the
Technological Research and Design Institute for Transport, have competent
staff to undertake this study, and their employment would contribute to the
development of Romania's consulting industry. It is therefore proposed to
award the study, which is expected to require about 150 man-months of expert
services, to Romanian consultants, and to finance their services in full from
the proposed loan at a cost of about $825,000 ($5,500 per man-month).
Inclusion of the study in the proposed project and the employment of
consultants by October 1, 1981, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, was agreed at negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). It may,
however, be desirable to use foreign consultants for specialized
methodological tasks connected with the study, or have Romanian consultants
visit foreign organizations which are engaged in similar work. Use of foreign
consultants, or visits abroad by Romanians, would be useful also in connection
with improvements in car control and locomotive utilization and in highway
maintenance practices. The foreign exchange costs of these visits and
consulting services are estimated at $175,000 (30 man-months at $5,800 per
man-month). The foregoing was discussed and confirmed with the Borrwer at
negotiations.
Project Implementation
54.      The MTTc will be responsible for implementing the project.  Execution
of the works included in the railway components will be entrusted under firm
contracts for each sub-project to the Railway Construction Central (RCC)
within MTTc. The supervision and acceptance of the work will be by the
railway regional staff supported by senior engineers from the Railway Design
Institute (RDI) as necessary. Both the RCC and RDI are well staffed by
competent people and, judging from the timely completion of similar railway
facilities in the past, are well-qualified to execute the project work. The
Directorate of Roads would be responsible for executing the road works under
the proposed project and with the assistance of the Road Design Institute,
would supervise the construction. The project roads will also be constructed
by the RCC on the basis of prices, unit rates, and quantities of work
determined and agreed prior to contract award.
Project Cost and Financing
55.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $767.1 million
with a foreign exchange component of about $330.7 million. These estimates
are based on substantially completed final designs and mid-1981 prices.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the base cost.
Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on annual increases of
9 percent, 8.5 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively for 1981, 1982, 1983 and
later years. Due to very low inflation under the Romanian system of
administered prices, price contingencies on local costs have been calculated
at two percent per annum.



- 17 -
56.      The proposed Bank loan of $125 million represents about 16 percent of
the total project cost and would finance about 38 percent of the estimated
foreign exchange cost and about $0.7 million of local costs for technical
assistance. The loan to the Investment Bank would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace with interest at 9.6 percent per annum and
would be guaranteed by the Government. The Investment Bank would carry the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The balance of the foreign exchange
cost of $206.4 million would be financed by the Government from State
resources. All local currency funds, except $0.7 million, would be provided
from domestic sources, $186.7 million equivalent by the Railways through
internal cash generation and $249 million equivalent by the Government from
the btate resources. Although cofinancing is not crucial for this project,
the Romanians may decide at some time in the future, depending upon financial
market conditions to seek external cofinancing loans. However, the Government
has assured the availability of the full amount of the funds needed for the
project.
Financial Evaluation for Railways
57.      The Romanian railways' operating results are generally satisfactory.
The target for the railways is to produce for all activities combined a
benefit (profit) of about 15 percent. This has been exceeded for the past
four years, 1977 to 1980, and the return on average net fixed assets in use
during the 1976-80 plan period has been about 5 percent. These results are
due to satisfactory tariffs, high density of traffic, efficient use of capital
assets, and the high productivity per employee. Both working and operating
ratios have been satisfactory. The depreciation charges, together with
benefits, generate adequate internal resources which enable the Railways to
finance about half its investments, the other half being met through State
allocations. The need to revalue fixed assets is recognized in principle but
because of the low rate of inflation in Romania, such revaluations have taken
place only at the end of 1963 and 1976, and the change in net fixed asset
values resulting from the latter was negligible.
58.      Price increases, particularly for fuel, introduced in January 1981,
(para. 29) were met by a freight rate increase of 5.7% and the railways'
operating results for the 1981-85 period are expected to continue the
satisfactory position of the past years with improvements projected in both
the operating and working ratios. The overall rate of return on net fixed
assets is expected to remain at about 5 percent. The net cash generated by
depreciation and the anticipated operating surpluses should finance more than
50 percent of investments.
Audit
59.      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the financial statements
of the Investment Bank and the Railway Department and the accounts reflecting
the expenditures made for the project roads will be audited each year by the
Ministry of Finance and furnisbed to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(f) and (g)).



- 18 -
Procurement
60.      Procurement will be by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines, on the basis of a list of equipment and
materials which has been agreed to between the Bank and the Borrower. A few
items such as remote control equipment for railway electrification and some
minor items of highway machinery will be procured through prudent shopping
amongst international suppliers; the total value of such items would not
exceed $1.5 million with a limit of $200,000 for individual contracts. For
the railway component of $94 million the goods to be procured would consist of
rails, steel for concrete sleepers, points and crossings, track fittings,
copper contact wire and substation equipment for electrification, cables for
signalling and telecommunication required for new lines and for doubling and
electrification of track, special steel for the Danube Bridge at Cernavoda,
telecommunication equipment (including radiotelephone systems) and a limited
number of freight cars. For the highway component of $30 million, the goods
to be procured under ICB would comprise road construction and maintenance
equipment, bitumen and reinforcing steel. However, the Bank would not
directly disburse funds against these equipment and materials. Disbursements
equivalent to 75 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the road components,
would instead be made against civil works construction. These works would be
carried out by RCC which is experienced and familiar with local conditions,
methods and regulations. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a preference
of 15 percent, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Almost
every type of equipment required for the project is manufactured in Romania
and it is expected that Romanian bidders will be successful for all ICB items
with the exception of bitumen (about $5 million).
Disbursements
61.      For railway equipment and materials the loan would be disbursed
against the full cost of foreign contracts and against the full ex-factory
cost of contracts won by Romanian organizations. Disbursements for the
highway components would be at the rate of 25 percent against Statement of
Expenditures for civil works to be submitted at regular intervals by the
Government. However, it will be a condition of disbursement that no
withdrawals shall be made from the relevant Civil Works Category under the
loan until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from the Government
that ICB procurements have been made for highway construction equipment and
materials in an aggregate amount sufficient to cover anticipated withdrawals.
During negotiations, the Borrower's agreement to the foregoing clisbursement
arrangements was obtained (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
Disbursement for technical assistance would be at 100 percent of both domestic
and foreign costs.
Benefits and Risks
62.      The proposed project aims at relieving transport bottlenecks and
mounting congestion on some of the most heavily trafficked railway and road
sections in Romania. These lines and road sections connect several large
cities and industrial areas and are of critical importance to the country.



- 19 -
bome of the project roads would also provide direct all-weather paved roads
connections between several growing commercial centers, and would open up
areas which are now isolated for much of the year. The principal direct
beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the rail/road users which come
trom a wine range of sectors and income groups. The project will benefit long
distance as well as local traffic. The favorable impact of the project will
also be felt by the rail/road passengers from the higher quality of service
and travel comfort.
63.      Benefits due to the proposed project will result mainly from reduced
maintenance and operating costs, and improved utilization of traction and
rolling stock. For road sections where traffic congestion is heavy, or where
substantial distance saving is involved, the economic analysis takes into
account savings in passenger travel time. Savings in transport costs,
excluding passenger time savings, account for about 80 percent of the total
benefits on these heavily congested roads. Benefits due to increased comfort,
convenience and safety have not been quantified.
64.      Based on the most probable estimates of construction, operating,
maintenance, and time costs, and traffic growth, the proposed investments
produce economic returns (ERs) ranging from 13-70 percent. All project
rail/road sections would yield first-year benefits of 10 percent or more on
the proposed investment. The weighted average ERs of all civil works
components, which account for about 99 percent of total project costs are 20
percent tor the project as a whole and 24 and 15 percent, respectively for its
railways and highways components. These economic returns understate the full
economic benefits of the project by excluding reductions in accidents, greater
passenger comfort and the convenience of travelling on improved railway and
highway facilities. Sensitivity analysis reveals that even under the
unfavorable assumptions of 15 percent higher construction costs combined with
a 15 percent reduction in users' benefits, the ERs are within the range of
10-55 percent for all project sections with an overall weighted economic
return of 15 percent, which is still acceptable. Benefits could not be
quantified for other project elements, namely tecbnical assistance and
training which are necessary for the project as a whole and whose benefits
will permeate the entire investment plan.
65.      The clear economic justifiction for the project and the planned
nature of the Romanian economy which helps to ensure that traffic forecasts
and construction programs will be realized would indicate that no special
risks are expected in the execution and implementation of the proposed project.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banca de Investitii,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Romania and
the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 20 -
67.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A condition of disbursement for the higbway civil works is the
procurement through ICB of construction equipment and materials in an
aggregate amount equivalent to cover anticipated withdrawals (Loan Agreement,
bchedule 1, para. 4 (b)).
68.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 16, 1981
Washington, D.C.



21_
AEN     1
TABLE 3A                                1        I      5 pes
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RaKANIA                           RCENRtSCI GROUPS (VEICHTFD AYEWctS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            M HST RECENT ESTIMATE)'
TOTAL            237.5                              H0ST RECENT            CCNTRALLY PLANNED        INDUSTRIALIZED
ACRICULTUtAL     149.6             1960  k    1970 k ESTIMATE                  ECONCPIES               COUNIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   ..         ..   1900.0                         ..                  9499.2
ENERGY CONSUHITION PER CAPITA
(KILWCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   1342.0     3013.0   4042. 0                    211.2                   7021. 1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    18.4       20.4      21.9
URAAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.1      40.8      46. 5                     35.5                    76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                      77.0       85.0      92.0                      83.6                   142.8
PER SQ. IOf. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0     135.0    146.0                     223.0                   523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        28.2        25.9     25.9                      30.8                    23.5
15-64 TS.                        65.1        65.5      64.1                      62.1                   65.1
65 rRS. AND ABOVE                  6.7        8.6      10.0                       7.1                    11.4
POPULATION GRaiTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.2         1.0      0. 9                      1.4                     0. 7
URBAN                             3.8  .     2. 8      2.5                       2. 9                    1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0       20.0      19.0                      18.2                    13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     9.0       10.0       9.0                       7.1                    9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.2        1.3       1. 2                      1. 3                    0. 9
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
WOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
nER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        89.0        89.0    152.0                      186.5                  110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Or
REQUIREMENTS)                 108.0       115.0    130.0                     113.7                   131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         86.0       90.0    103.0                       75.1                   98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      30.0       34.0      43.0                      28.                     62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     3.0        2.4       1.0                       1.1                    0.8
IUALT!
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (TEARS)   66.0       68.0      70.0                      7.1                    73.5
INFANT MORTALITY LATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          75.7       49.4      31.0                      22.4                   13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOtAL                                   ..         ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RRAL                               ..         ..U
ACCESS TO EICRETA DtSPOSAL (PERCED
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                     ..                ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        .                          ..
RRAL                              ..          ..        .
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          780.0/c    840.0/d  734.0                     2070                    62t8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     620.07c       ..    638.0                      240.1                  21P.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           130.0/c    120.0    109.0                       96.7                   121.2
URBAN                            50. 0c     50.0      60.0
RURAL                           620.0/c    770.0    730.0
AEUISSIONS PER BOSPITAL BED          ..       23.0        ..                                             17.0
BOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                              *         3. 2/O
URBAN                              ..        2. /e      .
RURAL                              ..        3. 4       .
AVERACE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
tOTAL                             ..         1. 4L      .
URBAN                              ..        1. 3/      .
RURAL                              ..        1. 41e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IDELIINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        49.01      .
URBAN                              *         66.02
RURAL                             ..        27.0        .



- 22                                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROKANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
RQlANIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (UEIGHTED AVER4CES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             CENTRALLY PLANNED           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  h     1970 /b ESTIMATE h                 ECONOMIES                  COUNTRIES
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR DiARY:    TOTAL                 98.0        113. 0     102. 0                       118.7                    100.1
MALE                 101. 0       112.0     102.0                        117.5                     102.2
FEMALE                95. 0       114. 0    101. 0                       120.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  24.0        45.0       77.0                        100.2                     87. 1
MALE                  27.0         51.0      81. 0                       101.9                     84.4
FEMALE                22.0        38.0       73.0                         97.8                     84.3
VOCATIONAL DSL. (t OF SECODARlY)  54.0            58.0       70.0                         47.4                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRINARY                            25.0         21.0       21.0                         16.2                     21. 3
SECONDARY                           16.0        18.0       19.0                         13.0                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           .            ..      98.0                           .                      98. 9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .          2.2        .. .3j
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         120.0       152.0      146.0                       403.5                     932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        73.0      139.0                       200.5                     15L. 1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  147.0 .    169. 0      129.0                        354.3                    327.4
CINEFA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           9.6        B.7                         14.4                      1.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    105C0.5    11:6.:?    120!.e*
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    [1L.9      tl.5         tt.o                       40.7                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               65.3        [9.1        2.5                        50.2                      7. 6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.1         23.1        33.-5                      30.8                      38. a
PARTICIPATION IRATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.1        56.0       55.9                         47.3                     44.6
MALE                                  64.5        63.3       62. 8                        57.1                     58. 1
FEMALE                                50.1        49.0       49.1                         37.0                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0. 7        0. 7       0. 7                         0. 7                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                 ..                ..
HICGEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                               ..                 ..
IDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                 ..                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      394.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      394.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UPBAN                                            ..                   ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
k    The group averages for each Indicator are populatlon-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
amorg the ifldicatore depends on availability of data and iS not uniform.
L    Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; 2d WHO estimates; /e 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
Jenuwry 28, 1981



23                                       ~~~~~ANNE  1
Page 3 of 5 pages
DSPtPTl0BfI OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Wates   Although tha data .rc dres  frn        ars  gasrlyldged  ite mZt .thortoatv.r   and reIa.bl.. It  httud  .10  6. n-td that they Ray set ha tfct
theta., u-flt   eo  h   resat.gio.   niaeted.   n   hrcst.cren  eo    itrts    ewe  co                                                  ie..
af gsa  sdttatr stat., aeon  the taotry  Td reidale grtoupa.:   .i    tl                                        d,:h,-h-                       -
tAM  ARA (hancedeq.i                                                               P001t tn pr tnstt.n- PltuaitaMatot4...                nmof a_ptaitc.gIosf
Tott hl Toa   ufaeae   opitg  adae   n   nadotn. tth.us-tll  ed  .                                                   5    totIdCel  dhota  utorlt   ed
fortirs  patre.mrtad ktothcn grd..a orto  le f.11-s  1977 dat.T                            a Ia. -01 lo-~1o   i~Jo  un         .r.tca .n... ..deaaan   ua.
by ut eao oe t      veclfl  taah     _benn   nnling pnhni-paly auctodlo
UltOT  MM'StSPTtOtS PEt CA_ITA   A- dtulcaoptta   onrlleat    ol                               cr   r   o  nci.tird.      tihrspItut.I.  hn -o.r  tc1ada O..lth and taicet
ao-d 6la   ptolo.aTua Ic  ca1d hdr-,nuler  odaat-nroa  else-                                 retr   o   ama tyoatdby aphyeot     (hot hy a sadical ...ei.tat.
tetItiyl In kilIugr   of tct reyotoa1ot pes capital 19hO. 1970. on  1970                    t        1de . idftt.  -no) albote   npttn-otaalned prelid  A
d-,.                                                                                         11,,i-d  aTaeZ of sndtoal iael'tlttea          T . L. Praateta  puspo_a uh   haupt-
0t. LooasO.   prioctral  ..n.a  at1   d apetialtoed h-pittal.. Aed rural
POPUL.ATION AND VITAL. STATItTICS OP,II 1T  .                                                                                               dr1-
Totat P ttlao i-n  Mld-Tau  tol lon1         A. ot Jly I; lh.1970. atd 19708                0:          e .  ...t  i bad"- Tu  tItrofonesaeioo   i.hr
dIiffr-TIe Iicll-e at urban Ir---  eaT afft oasprbilltry of deta                       HOUSING
Parelatton Prolattlote                                               ~~~~~~AhAtoucabld'!;naisth of. amrau  of tndtnldAae afotheta lilnin   quartr.T
Paola1  o  in   Oat20  - Curet  poulaloPI,eron   t  h .ad on100                            cd rhatr salt al. A..      boorden     lodger to    -0ty 000 ha i.t1oded 10
t0t01 popuatta- hy,usa -IO sea -d their sotala   adfaro1ttity                        I~~* tehueodfr  tteta    upat
Inc litfeaatao   at  hlrnhtoeroato  00th coutc              P pe  c1t. pita             b-ov    ~~   forocale  nou..st         .ad r... gloa  etetiio
lenl.  olfaoe  ttatpataty   oaltlt  at7.   er.  The par.-                          daatling., r.psopaitoJl.  DueI toe 'taato-eton  erooe   a
friIya th.I. o  oto  lee  alyatftlcplotg   eiotne.                            dtdat  05. reIt   tatn ft dhallIasI oftoal. uoht.  adsuo
adTarillt   ril  trpaeti              Tpurae.                                        oftotal. arbat. .ad r-ra  d-uliog. T-P..tilveY.
she birth rate I. equal to thedearh  aTeI, and ale  the  georoooaa-                 tClTIO"
the ralaoaat leve  at uIfotrpaoTtort,aeeahgntsan                                 Pnr   col- tonal. saic nod feeaie - Ira1..total. aol.adtl
at -notpl.... itself  -oatly.  The atatLoTar  -poyltoeaOennlno   falor   ttepIayl la  pntALntaeoftweetl
aet -ttad ao the b.als of oh. projectedtaetcete  ftopptta                                  Prler tIohoofl-ag     poa hltog  oaoc-ly I            -tuneAIAnoaedf    4
le ahe year 2000. Cad the nets at d-olo  of t-tility nut. to replace-..b.    j..   _df:                                              h        i      d.i.   .
Ter ete.lnory  .. I-nuano  te  -eahad - The.vrwa  eatar -oPo'latln                           catn   url   i  hl o  abo- the  ftfieia1 echol aCt.
D... io  eoity                                                                           oduoeniio  require  at l.   s . e..  yers  f aPPiTed_pldr ot tio o
Per so  4o     id-Yoar PoPalatioo Par esuae hilomt.t 110I          eoaOD      f              po-ido.gera.   to 1iru. or tneeher tre 11c  totrAttog te  puPib
tatal atta.                                                         atoely=-11  of 12 Ca 17 y-an  of a.e; creyodnoaAuae   n  ge-11Yt
Ai.ly.      Vt.Tt Chial not0t1oen---.)r(15-                                                                           Iof. s21Acnndar'v -    hoalanul - latttood
00 year.). an d rettrad (65 yea. aoM      Pai      .T.-atensaCe  of edyerP-                  d.tnlyone  dePrnciofeutry tatt10.
latIo;1960. 1970j.-an  1970 data.                                                          Puu-tathe, rt.ta: -oLIM,y  and            .. ad.   - Total  -idanta strolld I.
Petaeto  Iosa  Rat  (proti-t  - total - daaa  grewh nasea of t-tol  '                     pilacry aed ..a..odar  lenol  divIde  fy nowhere of  -anb-r  1e the
,ei  aplttoa  for tOhI-A. 1900-70.  Id 1970-79.                                         .a-.,-rondglaot
Pan uatlo  Smooth ptat  fvr-oot  -lb.n- dA,a,-   growh ref. e f e.rha  Pn90_                 AdetIt.reroty rate  ToavCeL)-Lieaeaoe chtorad                             nI
iatt-.a  far 1950-60. b9At-TI. ae  1970-78                                                    aapreTneCe1 a:t  ttlealfouata   gd  byne                          vr
.W.d 11trth gun1 0 lia thoucand) - Ao,,a1a ilne birtha p"r Cheaceod of mid-yea
apltiao  1900. 1970. ad1970 d.ts.                                                  C000tFITftO
Crde D.ath Oats (pe- Th-... dl - annualdeathe per thonuad o  md-aa                         yaeatrCare leer thou.a.          ioulttn  -  aeogr  ae   r uma
pneota;1960,.1970. and 1975 data,                                                     gat  tatglee,It- aaopnaal  atde   nulue.   hearee.   d
rotgaooTlo_ gt. - Al.rag   -abratdohe.ewonstlea  to.  Ill litr. nhel.
hrerartadatiepro   fea  aaitt   iet  cg.-Io f... fa-                             -dio  eeot   ntto.a   sual    Allype. of ....ln...  fo  redt.
tIlltt.rat..;-eouy f1loeY-ya  areagc    ndg Ia 1900. 1970.  o  1977.                       hauaengarlpahftp,rtaou.   fpplto;elae   o
efhlo-onoo  deve               ..do   auPi...  f octitou  fanlp plattna Progra.        ... i. eff.- ; data forrTn  yersmy  -o  ha toepav-bletn.   moo
Pauln  PI.nJita-t'tera (Posoctof ot   ,Tielod et           __eetage of eoTlr,d              oonraablge   l ZIg
dieea  thild-hburIa  age (I5-A4y4 ra  oh.  baehth-to-t-a  devi... ta                 ITYlcleele   foao   eualt    TV  -i-lan   tar b.Radgot t
POOC AND OUTOITIOft                                                     It~~~1  oouttrls  od Ia year..a lire, atala    f TV ton  o. Ito  fto.
WOOD AND NMITION    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ MeaaotCiruaio"e  tht  eet  eou                              Sitol -Shn  the  -vnae1 loaa
la.o  at toad Pnnduotlos  eatCpoict  19~9-7d1!1001 -   dsAa  of per teOlt   --uo           071st of  daiygerl.H,etecypr.  a odC     pnaio 
prdolna    L  odoalte.Pootioa anldt  edad  fend an                               1litaion denoted  pinrlyt  rnc.rdia    oca   oe   I   .coie
Ist on  iotedar"ya-  buei.  Coadlol.e  canr -       lat  goode (s.g. a-sartan              to he "deity   iTt a1ppuar   at  .e..  four 010.  a do.
I -ted of eug:rl  frhL  er  edLblo sod --i  otlot e.   tot rff- aod                     CIIn-  -oo-I Atil nd-ao  or  Ceol              Yn - Ta-Cued o    .the  ..he  of
taa ons ealded4.  ASgreetra pT.d.otto of ..chooot  I. haeed 00                             tiok.te .old doria..~ the,s.lataigeoleens  drIv-lu oL-e
totlaal       ..a.g pradel-  p       Is SMgho; 19061-frI. 1970, and I7  data.              Cd eahil  -ite..
Peroait  euel  o  oarrseir..It  f _irnlretlto) - Computed fran
energ  qitlve1at  of  -a  fond auppliaavat1lahla  Ia ot.oTry P.i tepta                   R tatcE
Pen day.  Anetlahle a-ppiaccaare  d-ietl  at-dottOn  laperre tact                      Tona  Labor Port  (,h.... )-  unmoet   ote  eec.   ol
enpatte   n   hag t  etah.k 0.t euppllae mate. talmal fend,Rceade.                       asdfre  aduepa                 but- seoldlg  ...ai.e. ...d..ne. etC.
qsalta   ad -I od prcala"o oeeO   tttoto                                eur-             ocotoei   a  oattstaasanrnoaIe; 1000. 1970ca
aen.era t.mtd hy PAl) bt.. o   hytlota  teda ton               -IO 0001-         tO.  data.
lily cod health oaoderlig  -1tr-aaTal t~rasurerr. hody nalghta. .C5                              P.....arenf     tl   fa tosonP_retC             fttllAtdr.
adendiAtrilbtiot of p.poIlinton  ad allosio  10 pet-o  tot --at  F5dtolualuonl-  Ldea I.ont In farmloC  fo....tty. hantleg .06
heriaheld level,; I190-61. 1970. and 1977 due.                                            fiebhag a. porlettag   of toCc  lahar fto...  1960. 1970 an  1090 dat.
Pa  Arta    PI   I-tof  te   (apace oPr dAvl - Prt.la  -onon  at ret ..Pita          Ind..try (-rerot) - Lahor f-na. IA  iag    - -t ti-tt ,f taCo! aterieS
~tat   pply of food per dey.  Hat aupply of food Is dafined onb- uhv. _t                 and aactrlotity. -ste.0 We on por..toaf tatbS  loho  fatosl 1900.
qureeta for all osatrse .atbhllehd hy USDA PT-id. for eit.i-                            1970 ea  1978 data.
aleseae  f 60  ia_   ef tota  prlteL per day and 20 g-e  of ani-a                      P.torta    an   erdt    ttl    ae   n  fe-ale -  rtlolpatle   e
puls   piteID,.(o ohlh 10 grea  e.euId he atleo  prten    meaaad                      otlvlty .....  .oapo .. a. Iota,   alte, ad`famla 1,lohrtr.o
soaaa  -ae  Ohuo thoac at 75 gsn  of total PToat.l  and 23 gram  of                                         ,-                                    A.
anhea.i prseta at enetarag  ta   thew   p-d,pr-ped by P0A0i Ia he Third          peTatteg    at tdtolt,fma~t. n     ul   ouaino   lsgsopole
Wo'Id  odtrol190L1-AS,1970 and 1977' daeT90h90,nd17   ae                                                                  Meor   leppttaia    eo   alot
P-rcpt c- utein  -0P'1  trI  atea  cod oulee -proe              yly  of food ds-           a          fneasrueturi nttepplta.  n   osam   oed        e   at
cOoed Irs  toaaar   ala    to    _            Te erda;IA-65. 1070 aol 1977 data.   Z-ooml  D.P.nden-v RaTio-   taatpoItaat- nader 15 ead65 .0ao
Child fagn  1-Al  fotlty Ito tePIr tho,aaandl - A ..aal death, perih thuad  a                 n  tha total labor  ore
Ig, group.I-f  tar.   ito,of4ldrn  In thie age gr.op; for cot detelipt    mo-
tnlaa dta dsl-d f-ra  life tablee; 1960. 1970 and 1977 data.                           IeCOnrE olSotTyiroN
P...rag   o  Prvte oo   tht   e  ahae   l     - gacettd by  lht
1~~1111th   T.    A-n.  ~~~~  f   -.  f ILo  hesacbolda
bo1tant MrtalIty Rate (st  fthoue.. . - deal dutha of toftat  and.r on  y-.    poolry TASGET GROUIOS
of age per thou...od Ille birth..                                                        lattete~d AheolaTa Pu-Tro,   eana Lanel (0551  P-n toelt:j - erbo  an  roat-
Attlee to late Aeta  irerotot of ooltal-tt l. b-,alrrl-0,                                     Aslt   oet   tom    eth  hitcm Ianol  aler  iothamofn
=ooher a  p.oplo  ttl  urbeo. an  toa)         _0h  o      ola act.., to  nt                ontitetaly   dqot  ottl plan  --taott1 o-fod requIremet. I. oat
eTe   ury(oldetetd ufeoforonutotdbturnetad                                               afrdh.
ataeoha  oe   to   rtetdbn(esa   pnna  edeoiayael)a.                                 tteaa    rttv  Pvr',                 led (SOorte  tlb    ranadrua 
fou-tai  or osadpuibaedsstreta   Otut I                      rantdt haune 0    ha          yareao    tomTf  h   eioy   CrAe, ete  I.dervedtea   Oh  rr
tni:Tdard. hats b    ti                        -(anhs  ce.o  t Ie hoaa   ft rur    aou    cool oI-1 d..nrth  o Otsbrr  U.nt ofho.0 In anbnd ft.-h..               -
rese.bl.c',oo.  I  teytht  h  hoso y  o   oaor   i  nebo.I,  d    et'  ld   4a  0 t  Boots..uoI'oat...yoe odt(crcoi  una
Olt-do..   .ocoot,iosaato     -.cratedroal) oho ."eeiueao.
roral-voehoc.,yy,oelnfnotcl..nl.sn   toltutal  s.roej'..oeocn-ta                                                    ti..
dipsaf      epecongho-.ei   rystu .ooadet b.   Eatrb-                   lIth e-                                           Ctfet   t   Gt0.b1 Ott9Ona0
toedP ea. tootd  -1.  .h... 1ts tio    o   lpte.to   rntoltetetg                                                           adanl   n   rJcio    soo



- 24 -
ANNRX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATTONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
Average Annual Crovtb (2)
UStMln.         S           1971-75       1976-80        1978          1979          1980
CNP at Market Prices                 41,350         100.0         11.31/         7.21!        7.61/          6.21/          2.81/
Cross Investment                     14,130          34.2         11.2          10.9         16.0            4.1            3.1
Gross National Saving                11,710          28.3           .             .
Current Account Balance              -2,420          -5.9
Export of Goods, NFS                 12,087          29.2         23.62/        15.52/        6.22/         18.02/         25.81/
Import of Goods, NFS                 13,730          33.2         22.3'/        17.32/       16.51/         20.12/         20.91/
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Net Value Added _/             Labor Force               N.V.A. Per Worker
U54 mln.                        HMln.           2            US.              _
Agriculture                                    3,930          11.6            3.05          29.5          1,289           39.5
Industry                                      20,800          61.5   ,        3.68          35.5          5,554          170.1
Construction                                   3,200           9.5            o.86           8.3          3,730          114.2
Others                                         5,870          17.4            2.77          26.7          2,123           65.0
Total/Average                      33,800         100.0           10.35         100.0          3,266          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in billions of lei)
1976          1977             1978            1974          1980
Total Revenue                                                254.5          282.0           300.8           339.3         298.0
Current Expenditures                                         180.4          196.5           198.9           224.7         203.6
Current Surplus                                               74.1           85.5           101.9           114.6          94.4
Investment Expenditure                                        69.7           83.9           100.4           112.9          93.1
Overall Surplus                                                4.4            1.6             1.5             1.7           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976          1977           1978             1979           1980
Money Supply (billions of lei, end of year)                                                  85.6            87.6         110.6
Bank credit to enterprises (billions of lei, end of year)                      .            386.0           405.0         428.0
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                                   100.6          101.2           102.8           105.0         106.6
I/    National income
2/    In current prices
3/    National income (SMP methodology), excluding output of the non-productive sector.
FMIDD
June 9, 1981



-25-
ANNUY I
laxg 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(uS$mlUbon)                        197M       1977        1978        1979       1980
}tE-C14AM0ITZ EXPORTS. 1980
US$ 6ln      2
Ixports of Goods, IIJ             6,642      7,357        8,728      10,133     12,087             Capital Goods                  2,836      25
Imports of Goods, SF5           -6.540      -7,529       -9,319    -11,428    -13.730              Consumer Goods                 1,737      16
Resource Cap                        102       -172         -591     -1,295      -1,643             Foodstuffs                       908       8
Interest Payments (net)           -118        -132         -168       -358        -777             Intermediate Goods             3,251      29
Balance of Current Account         -16        -304         -759     -1,653      -2,420             Raw Materiels                 2,477       22
Industrial                 (2,006)    (18)
MLT Borrowing                                                                                        4ricultural                   (471)     (4)
Disbursements                   712         861        1,174      2,065       2,805                                          11,209      100
Aortization                    -502        -562        -586        -809       -t51
'42t                           210         299         588       1,256       1954             EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1980
US>I 11
MLS Lending, net                   -392       -358         -346       -309        -181             Total ItLS                             7,574
of whicb convertible                 7.433
Short-term  Borrowirg, net          124        256          487        821         449             Total ST                               2,145
of which convertible                 2,124
Other Capital 1'                     97       -199          150          34          4D
DEN?T SERVICE RATXO. 1980                S
Clange of Reserves                 -23         306         -120        -149     ,  202
-  increase)                                                                                   All Currencies, gross2/                  14.1
All Currencies, netly                   11.8
Grocs Reserves                      562        256  -       376         525        323             Convertible Currencies, gross4/         22.7
(and of year) 
SIRD LENDING, April 30, 1981'          US$Mln
Oil and Products                   1976       1977         1978        1979       1980
Exports                          735         688          746      1.744       1,871             Outstanding and disbursed              868.5
Iports                           717         875        1,219      2.051       3,818             Undisbursed                            773.1
Outstanding and undisbureed         1,641.6
/ Including errors and omissions.
2/ Debt service payments for credits received only.
3/ met of debt service payment receipts for credits eztend .
4/ Debt service payments included in coavertible currencies as a
percentege of export receipts in convertible currency.
5S Includes only effective loams.
EMl
1an 9, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of May 31, 1981)
US $ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                   Amount    (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower            Purpose                     Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Nine loans fully disbursed                                          428.1                    -
1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank         Hydropower                50.0                    7.4
1368-RO    1977    BAFI/a                   Irrigation               60.0                    5.2
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Bearings                  38.0                    4.9
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Polyester                 50.0                    7.5
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                    Agricultural Credit    71.0                      17.9
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                     Irrigation               40.5                   11.8
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Tire                      85.0                   43.9
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Post Earthquake           60.0                   21.7
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Chemicals                 40.0                   12.2
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank          Pipe                     40.0                   38.6
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Thermal Power             70.0                   44.6
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                    Livestock                 75.0                   34.0
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                     Irrigation               70.0                   49.8
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                    Livestock                 85.0                   63.2
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank         Canal                    100.0                   44.7
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation                90.0                   85.9
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                    Orchards                  50.0                   48.8
1936-RO    1981    Investment Bank         Power IV                 125.0                  125.0
1937-RO    1981    BAFI                    Livestock                 80.0                   80.0
1938-RO    1981    BAFI                     Irrigation               75.0c/                 75.0
Total                                        1,782.6d/                822.1
of which has been paid                          39.6
Total now outstanding                        1,743.0
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             17.2                 2.6
Total now held by Bankb/                     1,740.4
Total undisbursed                                                     822.1
a/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/   Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/   Not yet effective.
d/   In addition, a $80 million loan for the Caracal-Titu Irrigation project
was approved by the Executive Directors on April 23, 1981.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!/
Ln. No. 1020        Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant which was delayed
due to slow delivery of local equipment is now in the commissioning and
testing phase. The loan is fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1027        Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness; April 3, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. More recent
delays have been caused by late delivery and quality problems with Romanian
manufactured equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July 1979 and
construction on the bar mill is progressing somewhat behind contracted
schedules with commissioning expected in February 1981. Total project costs
are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates. The project is
expected to be fully completed in the latter part of 1981. The loan is now
fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1028        Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages and redesign of some elements found necessary will result in a
delay in commissioning of generating units. Two of the units have been
commissioned and the remaining two are expected to be commissioned in first
half of 1982. Operating staff is being trained. The loan is now fully
disbursed and closed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and witb the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed which
is hoped to be partially recovered by a modern large surface boring machine.
Project completion will remain over one year behind schedule. Civil works for
the dam and underground power station are well underway but also delayed by a
similar period. One Hundred percent of the loan amount has been committed and
85 percent has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
progressing satisfactorily. The area irrigated in 1980 reached 34,000 ha.
The canal system was completed for 45,000 ha by December 1980 and another part
to cover an additional 7,700 ha is expected to be completed by the end of
June, 1981. Out of 11 dairy farms, nine farms are in operation. Procurement
contracts for almost all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo
in Negruvoda is completed. The silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is expected to
be completed by December 1982. About 80 and 50 percent of work was completed
on soil erosion control and land levelling, respectively. The loan is now
fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; June 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials bave been awarded.
Irrigation of 80,000 ha is expected by the end of June 1981. Up to December
1979, progress had been good but was somewhat slowed down in 1980, corrective
measures are being taken. Progress on main and distribution canals, pipe
networks, and drainage works are generally satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date;  December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the
exception of certain equipment items ordered from the local manufacturers
supply of which has delayed completion by about one and a half years.
Production is expected to begin in August 1981. Execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily with production expected to begin in June 1980.
Ln. No. 1479         Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for establishment and
modernization of large-scale pig breeding/fattening farms, development of
testing and selection centers, and provision of slaughtering and processing
facilities. ICB procurement is completed. Investments for state farms and
slaughterhouses continue to be ahead of schedule while those for cooperative
farms and slaughter and meat processing facilities are behind schedule.
Quality of workmanship and management of project facilities is satisfactory.
Prospects for project completion as scheduled are good.
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project works is proceeding satisfactorily. Irrigation of about 28,100 ha
will be possible in 1981 under the Viisoara system and the entire 98,328 ha in
1983. The Zimnicea system can be substantially completed this year.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of Marcb 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Plant
start-up is expected in mid-1981 for the Zalau plant (truck tires), and in May
1983 for Dobreta-Turnu berverin plant (tractor and giant tires), with a delay
of 13 months and about 2.5 years respectively. The delay for the latter plant
has been attributable to difficulties in obtaining a suitable supplier of
technology and equipment for the giant tire package. However, since
conclusion of the contract with Yokohama/Mitsubishi (Japan) for this critical
package in September 1980, expeditious implementation of this sub-project has
started, and revised completion date is expected to be met.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1581        Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and contracts amounting to
$58 million have been awarded. Though disbursements still lag significantly,
the pace has picked up in recent montbs and is expected to be maintained. A
request for an extension of the closing date is expected.
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled, although partial commissioning of some units is delayed by a few
months. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international
bidding. Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start
commercial operation in the first quarter of 1983.
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by over one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Ninety-two percent of the loan funds bave
been committed.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Investments for
modernization of existing pit complexes are far ahead of schedule while those
for new pig breeding/fattening complexes and new slaughter/meat processing
facilities are being decreased. This shift is acceptable because of the
higher profitability in modernization. Contracts for procurement of
construction materials have been awarded, but those for slaugbterbouse
equipment are being delayed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date; June 30, 1984
Project implementation is 1-2 years behind schedule, but a revised
construction schedule and investment program are being prepared to minimize
aelays. All contracts for equipment and materials have been finalized except
for the laboratory equipment and some contruction equipment. Supplies against
contracts are being received close to the schedule.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of January
11, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory. Contracts for
construction materials have been awarded. Romania's present and expected
shortage of high protein content poultry feed is closely monitored, and
concrete proposals made recently by the Bank to improve the situation are
being reviewed by the Romanian authorities concerned.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The bidding process for both equipment and materials is proceeding on
schedule. Materials are currently being procured.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Award of ICB procurement contracts has been practically completed.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule mainly because of
shortage of construction equipment caused in part by slow ICB procurement and
delivery and by delays in transfer of equipment from other irrigation project
sites. The Government is conducting a comprehensive study of equipment
requirement and availability to improve planning and implementation.
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 30, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
New orchard plantings for 1980 were slightly delayed due to the early
onset of winter; however, these plantings bave now been completed. The
planting program and propagation material are well in hand for 1981 and 1982.
Locations of 19 fruit stores have been selected and the master design is being
finalized.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1936        Power IV; US125 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness; April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan has become effective only recently. Bidding documents for
over half of the bid lots have been agreed and bidding for these is in process.
Ln. No. 1937        Livestock IV; US$80 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
The project consists of selected investments between mid-1981 and
mid-1984 included in Romania's Five Year Plan (1981-85) for milk and beef
production. The major components incude 92 new and 32 modernized dairy farms,
17 new specialized breeding heifer production farms, 19 new beef fattening
units, and 109 improved pasture units. The project is in an extremely early
phase tbus no trends or issues have yet emerged.
Ln. No. 1938        Bucsani Irrigation Project; US$75 Million Loan of January
9, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize crop
production and to raise productivity in a gross area of 158,485 ha in the
south-eastern part of Romania. This is to be accomplished through the
construction of irrigation and drainage systems and related facilities.
Preparation of bidding documents are underway. This loan is not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
ROMANIA
LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
bection I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare             February 1979-
the project;                                     January 1981
(b)   Agency whicb prepared the project:               Ministry of Transport and
Telecommunications (MTTc)
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank,          March 1979
and date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:          September/October 1980
(e)   Date of completion of negotiations:              May 29, 1981
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness;                   October, 1981
bection II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
bection III: Special Conditions
The Borrower will ensure that:
(i)   track overhaul of priority lines will be carried out over the
1981-85 period and that heavy-duty track maintenance machines will
be introduced on the railways during the same period (para. 35);
(ii) complementary mining and electric power investments will be made
on a timely basis so that the new Babeni-Berbesti railway line
will not remain under-utilized (para. 50);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii)   improvements will be made to the Bucbarest-Fetesti road
contemporaneously with the construction of the Fetesti-Cernavoda
Road (para. 51);
(iv)   the traffic optimization study will be carried out by consultants
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 53);
(v)   No withdrawals will be made for civil works for the highway
component until the Bank has been provided sufficient evidence
that ICB procurements have been made for construction equipment
and materials in an aggregate amount equivalent to cover
anticipated withdrawals (Condition of Disbursement para. 61).



IBRD 15462R
2 2 1\ ~~~~~~~~~~24~              3M                   A.>A 2-2JNE  819R
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
-4E-                  \                                       %5Ny '\f  ^^ _   /|_   -/ _  _  .<reDroh<A 50Xe)L2 \  LAND TRANSPORT PROJECT
>   H A T U /   <       \ , (  _  <S A N   <              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAhV/AY COhMPONENT.
CN-' T-,Ao  51-dA'ROd g
/NAI k T,. S-dNod GouDe
d-NAN, 5-RD T --k
T                                 E-...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NMM,   o 
EpN,  -DonFOG
\ -b-                   5                        s u 1rd1-  IIE           T. IN
1  =.   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
uw,.,,ne v, b b} >s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  eJ  SF  <   >   47   g  /   ;   =  ^ |PO M~  */  1  ENNN  A /
t~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                              FA. --NNA '    |    NA =A  N
AMNNN                                                                            ,_- N A .  CONSANAN  Bl         \<C+r>Uac k1
_ NNCNeL22' I M          G   A   R  I  A S  t  < _  <  a     B   U   L   G   A   RTIRA



