LOAN NUMBER 234 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Third Karachi Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION
LIMITED
DATED AUGUST 13, 1959


﻿LOAN NUMBER 234 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Third Karachi Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION
LIMITED
DATED AUGUST 13, 1959


﻿%Enatt Agretttnetti
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1959, het ween I NTER-
NrATIO:N:Al BAN  FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND    ELoPl1ENT
(le fri  er en llvd the Baink) a nd Tsi FI KA,'ACII I ELETRIC
SUPPIM (-'oi>orION L,MITED a Pakistan incorporated coni-
pn (Iereinaftr called the ti orowe).
WHEREAS
(A) 1y a loari agreenent dated June 20, 1955, between
ile Bank andfi the 3orrower, the Bank made a loan (herein-
after calloe the first loan) to the Borrower in an aniount in
v 11iOls en lremcies emiuivalent to $1,3,800,000 for the purpose
of finming ilie constructioi, improvement and extension
of (ertain power generating, tran'mission and distribution
failit ie (as mor e particularly deseribed therein;
(13) By a loan agreenient dated April 23, 1958, between
flh 1Banlk and tlie Borrower, the Bank made a further loan
1(hereinter ealled thbe second loan) to the T3orrower in an
injonmt in variois enrencies equivalent to $14,000,000 for
iiiiilar purposes as more partienlarly deseribed therein;
(() The first ]oan and the second loan were guaranteed
as to p<ayNment of principal, interest and other charges by
hile Guiarantor;
(1D) By the 1956 Trust Deed (as hereinafter defined) the
Rorrower crated, as seeurity- for the first loan and the see-
ondi boCn, a specifi- ortgage and floating charge in respect
of its propert ies and undertaking and an assignmnent by way
of, morgage of th1e Karachi License (as hereinafter defmed),
whicl mortgage, cliarge and assignment rank, subject only
to the mortgage and charge created by or pursuant to the
)ebenture Trust Deed in recital (G) referred to, prior to
any other security;


﻿4
() The Biank has been reques.ed to iake a tiird loall
to tle Borrower to be siinilal guarantee by Ille (01uaran-
tor upon tie ferms of a Guarantee Agreenent of' even date
lier.ewith ;
(F) The semii fy constituted by tlhe 1956 Trust Deed is
to be appropr-iately imodified, as lereinafter in Sect ion 5.04
provided, so flhat the first loan, the second loan and lit
third loai shall rank pari passu in respect of such security
asso lodified
(G) The Borrower by a Debenture Trust Deed dated 31st
May 1946 created a first specific mortgage and a first float-
ing charge in respect of all its property and undertaking
securing its 4% First Mortgage Debentures maturing by
their terms on lst August 1963 and presently outstanding
in the aggregate principal amount of Rs. 3,173,000; and
WIfEREAS the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Bor-
rower upon the terms and conditions 1ereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations; Special Definitions
SJe-rIoN 1.01. Thiv parties t this L oan Agreement ac-
vept all ile provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Banlk dated LJne 15, 1956, sibject, owever, to tbc niodifica-
tio f lereof set Forthl in Seledile 3 fo this Agreeient (said
Loam Reguiations No. 4 as so iodified being hereinafter
valled f he Loal legultions), with the salm ftorce and effet
as if they  w re  !'1lY set forth lerein.
SEU'rro  1.02. Except wilere l conltext rorwise re-
(1111les, tie following ternis have the fiolowin  meanings
wherever used in this Agreenent or any sehieduli thereto
(a) The teirim "first Loan Agreimvnt" mevans lie loan
agreemient 1, dated Jine 20, 1955, belweel tlie Banlk and flie


﻿Hrrowras ndified by Artise VII of lini semnl Loan
Ågrentl lin, iiaft  definIe(.
(b)  Tl  ti i    lirst loa "i iiieans  the loan  provided  for
in th e first L oant Agreemnent.
(c) Thetrm "s;eeond Loan Agreement" means the loan
gr   m  tP111, d[ted  April 2:3, 1958, be wNeen tli h Bnk and  tile
lBo r rowN(,r.
(d)  Tim,'  te m  s,colid  loanl'1"1e 1ns  thev  lonn  prøvided(
forI in theIl secotndI Loi n A\greenwnet.
()Thw te,rm "195 Trust De,e," mean   ith TrustDe
datfd,4t J:lnuary 1v   ns sulpplemlnlted( by v nupewta
Trls Deed d td 2ls1 Jly 1958, anld as ft her Imodified by
a SeondSuppemetalTrust Dl,daed  29)thl April15,
mide b   <et   the H3orrower and  aing 1rothliers & (Co.,
ilimit(d, ws  t rtie,  n ll te  B iik, sec(uringlr tIhe  first loan,
t   bon <Hs issule under lte first LoHn Agreement, the
Se4'ond( lo11 and tHw holnds isah  ne  h  eodLa
\'eelentl, all of whih rank pari pas  in/r se inl reslet
(f the sHeuit v sø erented, and (extepl were the coltbext
()I >I'rWise  l'1(juires) shtall inielIlid  anyV  leedis  o' inst rutienits
sLppllemetal whervto.
or deeds and other instaents which shll he exeentedl byw
lthe Hwrrower. il wveordanc(e w iti tihe provisiols; of  etion
5.04 of this Agreeenwnf in orde to miodify the seurity of tle
195 Trust .ee  , s in ,said Setion provided.
(g) The et    ru rust Deed" means the T9i Trust Deed
ia odified by the S1pplemiental Indenture anid shall exepf
where the co(ext otlerwise requlires include eadh deed aud
otier itnstrunt  inelnded in the Supplental Tidenfltre
and a ny deed or deeds suppleiental to the 19(i Trust eed
aS -sZO modifivd wiicht shall he Ix ecufed an(d delivered in
ordlance willi flite provisions thereof.


﻿6
(h) The term "Debenture Trust Deed'' ineans the Irust
deed dated 31s1 May 1946 liereil)efore in recital (6) re-
ferred to and sliall include any deeds or instruinents sup-
plemental thereto.
(i) The term  "fmanaging Agency Agreemient'' shall
mnean the agreeinent, dated 3st March 1951, between the
Borrower and The Pakistan Electric Agencies Limited (the
Managing Agents) and shall include all amendments thereto
made before the date of this Agreement and all amendments
thereto made after the date of this Agreement with the
approval of the Bank.
(j) The term "Karachi License" means The Karachi
Electric License, 1913 granted on 27th August 1913 by the
Government of Bombay under which the Borrower is the
present licensee and shall include any modifications and
extensions thereof.
(k) The teri "rupees'' and the letters "Rs.'' mean cur-
rency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SETIIoN 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on Ihe terns and conditions in this Agreement set forth or
refeired to, an aniount in vatrious currencies equivalent. to
two million four hundired thousani dollars ($2,400,000).
SECTIoN 2.02. The Bank sluall open a Loan Account on
its books in the uane of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Account the aiount of the Loan. The amount of the
Loan nin be withdrawn fron the Loan Account as provided
in, and subject to the rights of canceliation and suspension
set fortl in, the Loan Regulations and this Agreement.
SE(T(10N 2.03. The Borrower shall pav to the Bank a
couitiment eharge at the rate of three-fouirths of one per
cent ('j  of 1VX) per annum on the principal amount of the


﻿7
1 n    ) no, so witiIn hrnwn fromi tium(e to time. Such co1mmitment
(hrie sIhl neerne froi a te sixty days after the date
of this Agreemient to ])e 1e-spective dates on whi h amlountfs
shl l    i hewillrnwN y the H orrowelr- fromlte Loan Acount
ns provid'Iedl iArticle IV of Ie Lonn Rgulatios or shall
b)(, cnIeel((ld pulr-sIulnt to Article V of tHe Loan Regulations.
8>E(ms 2.04. The Borrower shaill pay inuterest at the
dte ofsix per (etii (61/' ) per aiinin  on the principal
am)onti of the 1   Loai so withdrawn and outstaniing from
tine to time.
SerioN 2.05. rheept fs ihe Bank and the Borrower
shll hlerwise agriee, the elrge payable for special coin-
itneuts enlterei into b  the Bank at the request of the
Borrowe r pursaint lo Section 4.02 of the Lon Regulations
shall be at the rnte of one-half of one per cent (14 of 1% )
per -nnuim on the principal aioinit of any such special
<,oniiinit ients ontstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
1ble se1i-annallv on Ja nuary 1 aild Julv I in each vear.
HSeToN 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of tihe Lon in accordance with the amortizaiion schedule
set fortfh iu Seliedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTIOLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
thie F-oan exclusively to financing the cost of goods. The
specific goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the nethols and procedures for procurement of such
g-oods shall be determined by agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower, subject to nodification by further agree-
nent between them.


﻿8
SECnN 3.02. The Borrower shill cause all goods, other
tlhan services, finanjce(l out of the proceeds of the Loan to he
imported into the territories of the Guarantor and there to
he u.ed exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTrON 4.01. The Borrower shall execute and deliver
Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan of
the form, tenor and purport prescribed in the Trust Deed
and as provided thereby and in the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall from time to time
d(esignae and notify to the Bank an authorized represen-
lative or representatives for the purposes of Section 6.12
(a) of the Loan Regulations.
SECox 4.03. The Borrower shall effect original issues
of the 1onds only as herein provided.
SEmx 4.04. The Bark and the Borrower shall be at
libertv to imfake such arrangements as they may from time
to time uiintually agree as to procedure for the issue, authen-
fie,tion and delivery of the Bonds and such arrangements
1in1v )e in a(Idition to or in substitution for any of the pro-
visions of this Agreement or of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
Ri rm0N 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall earry out an(d
completo the Project and operate and maintain its under-
taking, iicludig the Project, with due diligence and offi-
ciencv altd ill confonn1ity wit h  soulld vigineerinig, Isiness,
financial and electric utility practices.
(b) The Borrower shall eiploy consultants for the carry-
iig onit of the 1Project. The selection of the consultants and


﻿9
the scope of their responsibility shall be agreed upon be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrowei shall fuirnisli to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans aid speci-
fications and the eonstruction aiid installation schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Bank shall from time to
time request.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the prog-
ress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to re-
flect in aceordance with consistently maintained sound ae-
counting practices the financial condition and operations of
the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representa-
t ives to iinspect the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the sites, works and construction included in the
Project and all other plants, works, properties and equip-
rnent of the Borrower, and to examine any relevant records
and documents.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the use of
the goods purchased therewith, the progress of the Project
and the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
SECTioN 5.03. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each party shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to Ihe general status of the Loan.
(b) The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard


﻿10
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly iiforn the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of the Bor-
rower hereunder to the extent to which the same may be
applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each of such subsidiaries.
SECTION 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall execute and de-
liver, anl shall cause all other necessary parties to execute
and deliver, all such deeds and other instruments, in such
forni, as the Bank. may reasonably require to cause the
security constituted by the 1956 Trust Deed to be so modi-
fled and extended that as so modified and extended it will
constitute by way of security for the principal of, interest
on, and premium on prepayment, if any, of the Loan, the
Bonds, the first loan, the bonds issuable under the first
Loan Agreement, the second loan, and the bonds issuable
under the second Loan Agreement, all of which shall raik
pari passu inter se in respect of such security: (1) a Specific
Mortgage upon all the properties nrw owned or hereafter
acquired by the Borrower and expressed in the 1956 Trust
Deed to be the specifically mortgaged premises thereunder
or intended so to be; (2) an Assignment by way of Mort-
gage of the Karachi License; and (3) a Floating Charge
upon all the property and assets expressed in the 1956
Trust Deed to be charged or intended so to be by the first
floating charge created thereby, such Mortgage, Assignment
and Charge to rank in point of security, subject only to the
mortgage and charge created by or pursuant to the Deben-
ture Trust Deed, prior to any other mortgage, charge,
pledge, hypothecation or lien upon any of the properties or
assets of the Borrower, now existing or hereafter created.


﻿11
(b) The Borrower shall obtain all necessary consents for
the valid execution and delivery of the Supplemental Inden-
ture and shall duly register, or cause to be duly registered,
the Supplemental Indenture, together with such other docu-
inents as may be necessary or proper in order to render
the same fully effective in accordance with its terms.
(c) The Borrower shall hold or acquire, to the reason-
able satisfaction of the Bank, all such lands and properties
and all such rights of way, easements, licenses, consents,
or other rights or privileges as shall be necessary or requi-
site to enable it to construct the Project and operate its
undertaking, or shall (to the like satisfaction) make effec-
tive arrangements therefor; and the Borrower shall supply
to the Bank a certificate, satisfactory to the Bank, setting
forth particulars of the foregoing.
(d) The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1960,
furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that it has duly
performed its obligations pursuant to the foregoing sub-
paragraphs of this Section. As part of such evidence there
shall be furnished an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that
the requirements of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section have been duly complied with and that, as to such
property, lands and interests in land specified in the certifi-
cate referred to in sub-paragraph (c) as being owned or
having been acquired, the Borrower has good and market-
able title thereto; that as to such licenses, consents or other
rights or privileges specified in said certificate as having
been acquired, the Borrower has validly acquired the same
and that the same are valid and effective; and that, as to
arrangements specified in said certificate for the acqui-
sition of any of the foregoing, such arrangements are valid
and effective.
(e) The Bank- and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon modifications of the foregoing requirements of
this Section.


﻿12
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, except
for Hie mortgage andi charge created by or pursuant to
the Debentiure Trust Deod and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no mortgage, hypothecation, pledge, lien
or charge shall be created or exist on any of its propery,
assets or undertaking as security for any debt, or extended
to sveiire any additional debt, ranking in priority to or
pari passu with the Mortgage, Assignment and Charge con-
stituted by the Trust Deed.
(b) ExcepL as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) no
subsidiary of the Borrower shall at any time create any
mortgage, charge or security on its undertaking, properties
or assets (including uncalled capital) or any part thereof
otherwise than. in favor of the Borrower; (ii) all mortgages,
charges or securities created by any subsidiary of the Bor-
rower in favor of the Borrower shall be retained by the
Borrower and shall not be sold, transferred or otherwise
disposed of by it; and (iii) the Borrower shall not sell,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any shares for the time
being held by it in any subsidiary.
SECTION 5.06. The Borrower shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right, to carry on operations and shall, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, take all steps necessary for the acqui-
sition and retention by it of all such lands, interests in
land and properties and for the acquisition, maintenance
and renewal of such rights, powers, privileges and fran-
chises, as may be necessary or useful for the construction
and operation of the Project and the conduct of its business.
SECTION 5.07. Without prejudice to the provisions of
Section 3.03 and Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement,
the Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes (in-
cluding duties, fees and impositions), if any, imposed
under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, issue,


﻿13
delivery or registiratioii of the Ljoan Agreceient, the Guar-
aite Agreement the Tirust Dved, the Supplemental Inden-
11re or th.e iBonds, or the payment of principal, interest
or other eharges thereunder; provided, however, that the
piovi,sions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of
(including duties levied in respeet of, or fees or imposi-
tions upon) payients under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned
by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes (ineluding duties, fees and impositions), if
anv, imposed under- the laws of the United Kingdom or
flhe country or countries in whose currency the Loan and
the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories'
of the United Kingdoim or such country or countries on or
in comneltion will the execution, issue, delivery or registra-
tion of ilie Loan Agreement, the Guarantev Agrecnent,
the Trust Deed, the Supplemetal Indenture or the Bonds.
SEenoN 5.09. EXce1t as shall 1)0 otherwise a   breed  e-
tween the Bank and the Borrower, the Borirower shall
1insue or cause to be insured the goods financed out of the
)roceeds of the Loan against risks incident to theii pur-
chase and importation into the territories of the Giiar-
imtor. Such insurance shall be consistent with sound com-
mercial practice and shall bo payable in dollars or in the
(11rrency in which the cost of the goods insured thereunder
shall be payable.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower shall not consent to anv
action taken at ainy ieeting of bondholdors or by written
instrument pursuant to the provisions of the 1956 Trust
Deed or the Trust Deed which woul(1 cage lie terns of
the Bonds or adversely affeet the bolders thereof unless
lie Bank siall have expressed in wriing its npprov,,al of
sueli action or such consent.


﻿14
SECTION 5.11. The Borrower shall duly perform all obli-
gations to be performed by it under the 1956 Trust Ded
and the Trust Deed.
SECTION 5.12. The Borrower shall not, except as the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, take or con-
cur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, or assigning the Karachi License.
SECTION 5.13. The Borrower shall not amend its Memo-
randum or Articles of Association or the Managing Agency
Agreement without the approval of the Bank.
SECTION 5.14. The Borrower shall not, except as other-
wise agreed by the Bank, make any payment on account
of the debentures secured by the Debenture Trust Deed in
advance of the respective dates provided therefor at the
date of this Agreement, or as they may be extended, except
from amounts raisd by the issuance of the Borrower's
ordinary shares at not less than par.
SECTION 5.15. The Borrower shall not, without the ap-
proval of the Bank, (i) issue or permit to be issued any
debentures provided for in the Debenture Trust Deed in
addition to the aggregate principal amount of such deben-
tures presently outstanding, or (ii) renew or reissue any
such debentures presently outstanding.
SECTION 5.16. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall promptly as may
be required offer for subscription at not less than par such
additional ordinary shares as shall be sufficient to provide
amounts, not otherwise available, necessary to meet the
costs of construction of the Project and to provide adequate
working capital during and at completion thereof.
SECTION 5.17. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not


﻿13
delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the Ouar-
witee Agreement, the Triust Deed, the Suippleniental Inden-
ture or the Bonds, or tne payment of principal, interest.
or other charges theretnder; provided, however, that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of
(including duties levied in respect of, or fees or imposi-
tioms upon) payments under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned
by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes (including duties, fees and impositions), if
auy, imposed under the laws of the United Kingdom or
Ilte country or countries in whose currency the Loan and
the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories
of the United Kingdom or such country or countries on or
iii comiection witi the execution, issue, delivery or regristra-
tion of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement,
the Trust Deed, the Supplemental Indenture or the Bonds.
SECTIOx 5.09. Except as shall he otherwise agreed be-
ween the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall
hisure or cause to be insured the goods finaced out of the
proceeds of the Loan against risks incident to their pur-
chase and importation into the territories of the Guar-
aitor. Such insurance shall b) consistent with sound con-
mercial practice and shall be payable in dollars or in the
eurrency in which time cost of the goods insured thereunder
shall be payable.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower shall not consent to any
action taken at amy meeting of bondholdois or by written
instrument pursuant to the provisions of the 1956 Trust
Deed or the Trust Deed which would chnige the terms of
the Ronds or adversely affect the holders thereof unless
the Baik siall have expressed in writiitg its a)proval of
such action or such consent.


﻿14
SECTION 5.11. The Borrower shall duly perform all obli-
gations to be performed by it under the 1956 Trust Deed
and the Trust Deed.
SECTION 5.12. The Borrower shall not, except as the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, take or con-
cur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, or assigning the Karachi License.
SECTION 5.13. The Borrower shall not amend its Memo-
randum or A rticles of Association or the Managing Agency
Agreement without the approval of the Bank.
SECTION 5.14. The Borrower shall not, except as other-
wise agreed by the Bank, make any payment on account
of the debentures secured by the Debenture Trust Deed in
advance of the respective dates provided therefor at the
date of this Agreement, or as they may be extended, except
from amounts raisd by the issuance of the Borrower's
ordinary shares at not less than par.
SECTION 5.15. The Borrower shall not, without the ap-
proval of the Bank, (i) issue or permit to be issued any
debentures provided for in the Debenture Trust Deed in
addition to the aggregate principal amount of such deben-
tures presently outstanding, or (ii) renew or reissue any
such debentures presently outstanding.
SECTION 5.16. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall promptly as may
be required offer for subscription at not less than par such
additional ordinary shares as shall be sufficient to provide
amounts, not otherwise available, necessary to meet the
costs of construction of the Project and to provide adequate
working capital during and at completion thereof.
SECTION 5.17. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not


﻿15
incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any indebtedness if,
after the incurring of any such indebtedness, the consoli-
dated indebtedness of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries,
if any, would exceed the consolidated capital and surplus
of the Boriower and all its subsidiaries in a ratio higher
ihan 65:35.
For the purposes of this 'Section:
(a) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Pakistan currency
indebtedness payable in another currency, such valu-
ation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such indebtedness.
(h) The term "indebtedness" shall not include any debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) The term "consolidated indebtedness" shall mean
the total aniount of indebtedness of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries (if any) excluding indebt(d-
ness owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by
any subsidiary to the Borrower or by any subsidiary
to any other subsidiary.
(d) The term "capital and surplus" shall mean capital
and surplus determined in accordance with sound
accounting procedures.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus" shall
mean the total capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries after excluding such items
of capital and surplus as shall represent equity in-
terest by the Borrower or any subsidiary in the
Borrower or any subsidiary.
SECTION 5.18. The Borrower shall not, without the con-
sent of the Bank, incur any indebtedness (other than ordi-
nary short-term trade and commercial liabilities) maturing


﻿16
one year or less after its date which would cause the total
of such indebtedness of the Borrower at any time outstand-
ing to exceed Rs. 5,000,000.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a), paragraph (b), paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of
Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations -shall occur and shall
continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii) if the events
specified in paragraph (j) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regu-
lations shall occur, or (iii) if any event specified in para-
graph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower, then at any subsequent time during the con-
tinuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may declare the
principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such
declaration such principal shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Agreement, the Trust Deed
or the Bonds to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VII
Modification of Loan Agreement Dated June 20, 1955
and of Loan Agreement Dated April 23, 1958
SEcrION 7.01. Section 5.14 of the Loan Agreement,
dated June 20, 1955, between the Bank and the Borrower,
as amended by Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement, dated
April 23, 1958, between the Bank and the Borrower, is
further amended to conform to Section 5.18 hereof.
SECTION 7.02. Section 5.16 of the Loan Agreement,
dated April 23, 1958, between the Bank and the Borrower
is anended to conform to Section 5.18 hereof.


﻿17
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTrIN 8.01. Te   following events are specilied as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveiess of tfhis Agreeient
within tlie ineaning of Section 9.01 (a)(ii) of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) Wit liout limiting the generality of Section 9.01 («a) (i)
of the Loan Regulations, (i) the sharehohics of the
Borrower shall have taken such action, satisfactory
to tlie Bank, as shall hnecessary to autliorize tlie
Directors of the Borrower validily to authorize or
to ratify and adopt this Agreenient on behalf of thie
Borrower, (ii) the Drectors of tlie Borrowelr shall
have validly authorized or ratified and adopted this
Ag1reem1enit on behalf of tlie Borrower, and (iii) all
(essairy oIIsents for tlhi valid execution, ratifiea-
tion and adopti of Iiis Agreement by and on1 belhalf,
of the Borrower sliall have been seenred.
(b) Tle Borrower shall have certiied in writin- lo the
Bank that, as of a (lat(e to be agreed bet ween the
Brrower r and the Bank, there has been no imaterial
adverse change in its condition since the date of this
Agreenient.
SECIrrN 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the neaning of Secti·on 9.02 (e) of the loain
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank:
(a) That the actions provided for in Scetion 8.01 (a) of
this Agreeient have been duly and validly taken,
and that the Borrower has full power and authority
to raise nonies by the issuance of Bonds and other-
wise as lieeini provided, and that all acts, vonsents
and approvals necessary tverefor have het n duk and
validly performed or given.


﻿18
(b) That the Borrower has full power and authority to
construct and operate the Project and has all neces-
sary rights and powers in connection therewith, that
all acts, franchises, concessions, consents and ap-
provals necessary therefor have been duly and val-
idly performed or given, and that, with such excep-
tions as the Bank may have approved, all easements,
rights and privileges necessary therefor have been
duly obtained.
SECTION 8.03. A date 60 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
9.04 of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
SECTION 9.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1961.
SECTIoN 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 I Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D.C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.


﻿19
For the Borrower:
The Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation Limited
Spencer's Building
McLeod Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Utilities
Karachi
[X WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
iiames and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AN) DEVELOPMENT
By  /s! J. BuRKE KNAPP
Vice President
THE KARAC HIi ELECTRIC SUPPLY
CORPORATION LIMITED
By /s/ A. G. KHAN
Authorized Representative
Countersigned:
THE PAKISTAN ELECTRIc AGENCIEs LIMITED
By /s/ A. G. KHAN
Authorized Representative


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due          (expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 1962                $ 62,000
July 1, 1962                     64,000
January 1, 1963                  66,000
July 1, 1963                     68,000
January 1, 1964                  70,000
July 1, 1964                     72,000
January 1, 1965                  74,000
July 1, 1965                     77,000
January 1, 1966                  79,000
July 1, 1966                     81,000
January 1, 1967                  84,000
July 1, 1967                     86,000
January 1, 1968                  89,000
July 1, 1968                     91,000
January 1, 1969                  94,000
July 1, 1969                     97,000
January 1, 1970                 100,000
July 1, 1970                    103,000
January 1, 1971                 106,000
July 1, 1971                    109,000
January 1, 1972                 113,000
July 1, 1972                    116,000
January 1, 1973                 119,000
July 1, 1973                    123,000
January 1, 1974                 127,000
July 1, 1974                    130,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.02), the figures in this
column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿21
Premiums on Prepaynent and Redemption
The following- prntgsaepe        ifiea thle pre,miums
payable oin repyment in advance of maturity of any part
of the p>rinleil)'l>a amounlt of the Loan pu rsuant to H4eCtion
2.05 (b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redeiption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Seetion 6.16
of the Loan R(gulations:
Timu,e of Prepayment or Redemption  PrPnium
Not more than 3 years before
maturity                           1/2 of 1%
More than 3 vears but not more than
6 years before Imaturity               2%
Mfore than 6 years but not more than
11 vears before maturity              312
More than 11 years but not more than
13 years before maturity               5'
More tflan 13 years before maturity       6C


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of a diesel power station and of a
preliniinary study for a new steam power station.
A. DIESEL POWER STATION
The diesel power station will have a total generating
capacity of about 14,500 kw. It will be equipped with low
or nmedium speed dual-fuel generating units and all neces-
sary auxiliary equipient and accessories. The station will
be located at the Sind Industrial Trading Estate in Karachi
adjacent to an existing sub-station of the Borrower to which
it will be connected.
B. PRELIMINARY STUDY
A preliminary studlv will be made of the economic and
engineering aspects of a new steam power station (to be
known as "C" Station) designed to meet future increases
in denuld in the system operated by the Borrower and
will include the preparation of a general plan of such a
station. The study will be started not later than Octo-
ber 1, 1959.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of Loan Regulations No. 4
For the purpose-s of this Agreement tlie provisons4 of
Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank, dated June 15, 1956,
are modified as follows:
(a) Seetion 2.02 is deteted.
(b) The following sentence is added at the end of Sece-
i o i 3.05:
"Whenev it sliall be necessary to value rupees
in term.s of dollars or another currency, sueli value
shall be as reasonabyi determined by the Bank."
(c) Th firs five ines of Section 5.02 are aniended to
r'ead as f ollow,s:
" no i.02. Nbuspension byi he Hank. If any of
the following events shall have happened and be enn-
tiliiiiing, the Bank may at any thne or from fimne to time
by notice to tie Borrower suspeid in whole or in part
the right of te Bor.rower to make withlidrawals from
the Loan Account:"
(d) Suh-sections (c), (i) and (j) of Section 5.02 :re
aiended to read as follows:
"(e) A default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan
Agreement, the Guiarantee Agreement or the Bonds,
the second Loan Agreement the guarantee agreement
of, even1 dite t hercwith, or tie bonds issuable tere-
under-.
"(- On nr after the date of the Loan Agreem1ent
-1nd(1 pr-ior  to  He  Effective Da t he li('re  shall have  b)en
any act or oiiiission to act which wold have constituted
a violation of any covenant contained in the Loan
Agreement or the Guarantee Agreenent if the Loan


﻿24
Agreement and Guaranteo Agreement had been effee-
tive on the date of such act or omission.
"(j) If tie security constituted by the 1956 Trust
Deed or the Trust Deed shall becomie enforceable."
(e) The last paragraph of Section 5.02 is amended to
read as follows:
"The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall continue to be suspended
in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event
or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have
ceased to exist or until the Bank shall have notified
the Borrower that the right to make withdrawals has
been restored, whichever is the earlier; provided, how-
ever, that in the case of any such notice of restoration,
the right to make withdrawals shall be restored only
to the extent and subject to the conditions specified
in such notice, and no such notice shall affect or impair
any right, 1power or remedy of the Bank in respect of
any other or subsequent event described in this Sec-
tion."
(f) Section 5.03 is changed to read as follows:
" SECTION 5.03. Oancellation by the Bank.
(a) If any of the events described in Section 5.02
shall have happened and be continuing, the Bank may
by notice to the Borrower terminate in whole or i.n
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account and, upon the giving of such
notice, the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan with
respect to which such notice of termination shall have
been given shall be cancelled.
(b) If the Borrower shall not at the Closing Date
have withdrawn fromi the Loan Account the full amount
of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account. Tpon the giving of


﻿25
such notice the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall
be cancelled."
(g) Sect ion 6.01 is deleted.
(h) Section 6.07 is amended to read as fbllows:
"SECTION 6.07. Form of Bonds.
(a) The Bonds shall be fully registered bonds with-
out coupons (hereinafter sometimes called registered
Bonds) or hearer bonds with coupons for semi-annual
interest attached (hereinafter sometimes called coupon
Bonds). Bonds delivered to the Bank shall be regis-
tered Bonds or coupon Bonds in such temporary or
definiitive form (authorized by the Trust Deed) as the
Bank shall request. Registered Bonds and coupon
Bonds payable in dollars and the coupons attached
thereto shall be substantially in the forms respectively
set forth in the Trust Deed. Bonds payable in any
currency other than dollars shall be substantially in the
forms respectively set forth in the Trust 1Deed, as the
case may be, except that they shall (a) provide for
payment of principal, interest and premium on redemp-
tion, if any, in such other currency, (b) provide for
such place of payment as the Bank shall specify, and
(e) contain such other modifications as the Bank shall
reasonably request in order to conform to the laws or
to the financial usage of the place where they are
payable.
" (h) Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Loan Agreement or these Regulations, if the Bank shall
so require, the Borrower shall execute and deliver
bonds pursuant to Section 6.03 before the exeution
and delivery of the Trust Deed. The provisions of
Section 6.07 of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank,
dated June 1i, 1956, but before modification by sub-
paragraph (a) of this Section, shall apply to the form
of any such bonds, with appropriate changes therein


﻿26
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide for the exchange
thereof, free of cost to the Bank, for Bonds of the same
respective aimounts, currencies and maturities issued
under the Trust Deed, the Loan Agreement and these
Regulations. All other provisions of the Loan Agree-
ment, the Guarantee Agreement and these Regulations
relating or referring to Bonds shall apply mutatis
mutandis to such bonds except where such application
would be clearly inconsistent with the requirements of
this sub-paragraph.
" (c) All Bonds shall have the guarantee of the Guar-
antor endorsed thereon substantially in the form set
forth in Schedule 3 to these Regulations."
(i) The following sentence is added at the beginning of
Section 6.09, namely:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, Bonds shall be dated as hereinafter in this
Section provided."
(j) The following new sub-section is added to Section
6.11:
" (d) Subject to the provisions of Sections 6.05 and
6.06, Bonds payable in any currency may be exchanged
without charge to the Bank for Bonds of the same or
an equivalent aggregate principal amount payable in
the same or any other currency or currencies and hav-
ing the same or any other maturity or maturities. For
the purposes of determining the equivalent of one
currency in terms of another the value of each shall
be as determined by the Bank."
(k) The first sentence of Section 6.12 (a) is changed to
read as follows:
"The Bonds shall be signed in the name and on behalf
of the Borrower by its authorized representative
designated pursuant to the Loan Agreement for the
purposes of this Section."


﻿27
(1) Section 6.18 is deleted.
(m) In Section 7.01, after the words "Guarantee Agree-
ment " where those words occur, the words ", the Trust
Deed" are added.
(n) Sub-section (j) of Section 7.04 is amended to read
as follows:
" (j) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this
Section shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the
determination of controversies between the parties un-
der the Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement or
any claim by  ny such party against any other such
prty arising thereunder provided, however, that noth-
ing herein shall he deemed to preclude any of the said
parties froii exercising, or instituting any legal or
equitable action to enforce, any right or claim arising
out of or pursuant to the Trust Deed or the Bonds,
and submissioii to arbitration hereunder shall not be
deend to be a condition precedent or in any way to
prejudice such exercise or other enforcement of any
such right or claim.'"
(o) Section. 9.03 is amended to read as follows:
" SECnIoN 9.03. Effective Date. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 8.01, except as shall be otherwise
agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the Loan Agree-
eiont and Guarantee Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches
to the Borrower and to the Guarantor notice of its
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 9.01."
(p) Paragraph 6 of Section 10.01 is amended to read
as follows:
"6. The term 'Borrower' means the party to the
Loan Agreement to which the loan is made; and the
term 'Guarantor' means the Republic of Pakistan, act-
ing by its President."


﻿28
(q) Paragraph 10 of Section 10.01 is deleted and the
following new paragraph is substituted therefor:
"The tern 'Bonds' means Bonds issoed amd autiteit-
ticated pursuant to the Trust Deed (except as other-
wise provided in Section 6.07 (b)), with the guaiantee
of the Guarantor endorsed thereon as provided in the
Loan Agreveient and the Guarantee Agreement.'
(r) Paragraph 14 of Section 10.01 is amended to read
as follows:
"The term 'external debt' means any debt payable
in any medium other than currency of the Guarantor,
whether such debt is or may beepme payable absolutely
or at the option of the creditor in such other medimi.'


