LOAN NUMBER 234 PAK
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Karachi Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 13, 1959


﻿LOAN NUMBER 234 PAK
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Karachi Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 13, 1959


﻿Guarantee Agrrment
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1959, between REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and The Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
Limited (hereinafter called the Borrower), which agreement
and the schedules therein referred to are hereinafter called
the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two
million four hundred thousand dollars ($2,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the payment of the principal, interest and other charges on
such loan; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as fol-
lows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated June 15, 1956, subject, however, to the modifi-
cations thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agree-
ment (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein. The
terms defined in said Loan Agreement shall have the same
meaning as if such definitions were fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and
other charges on, the Loan, the principal of, and interest on
the Bonds, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement, the Trust Deed and the Bonds.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guaran-
tor and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy
any priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Guarantor as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this Section shall not apply to: (i) Pny lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Sec-
tion includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its po-
litical subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor or of
any such political subdivision, including the State Bank of
Pakistan.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will


﻿5
he accomplished. To  that end, each of them shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of the Guarantor, such information shall include inforrma-
tion with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Guarantor and the international balance
of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit
any part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes
related to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes (*neluding duties,
fees and impositions) imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in its territories; provided, however,
that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxa-
tion of, or duties, fees or impositions levied upon, payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank
when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or
corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the
Trust Deed, the Supplemental Indenture and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes (including duties, fees and im-
positions) that shall be imposed under the laws of the
Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or in con-
nection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
thereof.


﻿6
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions iniposed under the laws of the Guarantor or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 3.06. The Guarantor shall not take any action
(including any action in respect of the rates to be charged
by the Borrower for the sale of electricity) which would
prevent or materially interfere with the successful opera-
tion of the Project, or with the carrying on by the Borrower
of its operations and enterprise in an efficient and business-
like manner and in accordance with sound engineering, fi-
nancial and electric utility practices,,or with the perform-
ance by the Borrower of any of the covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement or
the Trust Deed.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the
Loan Regulations, its guarantee on the Bonds to be exe-
cuted and delivered by the Borrower. The Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance, is desig-
nated as the authorized representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 6.12 (b) of the Loan Regulations.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
ScTtoN 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Guarantor:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Ministry of Finance
Karachi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Finpak
Karachi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D.C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams ard radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 5.02. The Secretary to the Government of Pak-
istan, Ministry of Finance, is designated for the purposes
of Section 8.03 of the Loan Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿8
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ M. S. SHAIKH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAP
Vice President


