Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15149-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 11, 1996
Energy, Environment, Transport and Telecommunications Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Zlotys (ZL) (average rates)
1990 1991  1992  1993  1994   1995
US$1 = ZL 9500 10576 13626 18115 22723 2.43
(New ZL introduced on Jan. 1, 1995: New ZL I = ZL 10,000)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                           US System
I meter (m)                            3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                       0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)               0.3861 square mile (mi2)
I metric ton (m ton)                   0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
I kilogram (kg)                        2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
I mnillion tons (mt)
I ton kilometer (tkm)
ABBREVIATIONS
DEM        =    Deutsche Mark
DR         =    Discount Rate
EU         =    European Union
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GDDP             General Directorate of Public Roads
GOP              Government of Poland
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
MIS        =    Management Information System
MTME       =    Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
PKP              Polish State Railways
PMU        =    Project Monitoring Unit
SCL        =    Single Currency Loan
TA               Technical Assistance
VTMS       =    Vessel Traffic Management System
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



_j -
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Poland
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) and the Port
Authorities of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Amount:                     US$67 million equivalent
Terms:                      Two SCL Tranches of US$ 33.5 million and DEM  49.5 million
respectively, 17 years maturity with 5 years grace period at the Bank's
LIBOR-based floating interest rate
Commitment Fee:             0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Project Objectives:         The objectives are to improve: (i) physical access to the ports; and (ii)
management capacity in the ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-
Swinoujscie, while providing assistance to the implementation of the new
institutional set-up. Achieving these objectives will strengthen the ports'
capacity to provide efficient services and to connect more effectively with
domestic inland transport networks, thus enhancing the competitiveness of
the whole transport chain.
Estimated Costs:            US$Million    Foreign: 76.1 Local: 69.5  Total: 145.6
Financing Plan:             US$Million    Government. 78.6 IBRD: 67.0  Total: 145.6
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD FY                          1997     1998       1999      2000      2001       2002
Annual (US$ Million)              4        13         14        16         13        7
Cumulative (US$ Million)          4        17         31        47        60         67
Economic Rate of Return:    Rates of return and Net Present Values have been calculated separately for
each of the three road access components, with ERRs varying between 15 and
25%. An overall rate of return of 18% can be expected for the Project as a
whole.
Proiect ID Number:          36061






POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................(i)
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background                                 ..I
B. Foreign Trade                              ..I
C.  Transport Sector Administration                   ..2
D.  Sectoral Issues and Poicies                     ..2
E.  Transport Investments                          ..4
F.  Bank Experience in the Sector                     ..5
ll.    THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
A. Port Facilities                              ..6
B.  Administrative Framework                        ..7
C. Traffic                                  . . 9
D.  Port Organization             .10
E.    Port Planning and Investment Program .1 
F.  Port Finance and Cost Recovery    ..12
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Objectives    ..16
B.  Project Description           ..17
C.  Design and Engineering    ..21
D. Cost Estimates    ..21
E. Financing   ..22
F.  Implementation and Monitoring    ..23
G.    Procurement                                                         24
H. Disbursements    ..26
I.  Reporting and Auditing    ..27
J.  Environmental Impact    ..27
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Background .31
B.    Economic Assessment and Justification .31
C. Project Risks .33
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .34



ANNEXES
1.    Transport Sector Administrative Structure
2.    Port Facilities
3.    Port Traffic Statistics 1993-1994
4.    Trade and Port Traffic Forecasts 1995-2005
5.    Financial Evaluation of the Port Authorities
6.    Technical Assistance Program - Terms of Reference
7.    Training Program Framework
8.    Project Costs Estimates
9.    Project Implementation Plan
10.   Project Implementation Schedule
11.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
12.   Procurement Plan
MAPS
IBRD 27435          POLAND
IBRD 27436          PORT OF SZCZECIN
IBRD 27437          PORT OF SWINOUJSCIE
IBRD 27438          PORT OF GDYNIA
IBRD 27439          PORT OF GDANSK
IBRD 27440          PORT OF SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE - Road and Maritime Accesses
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission to Poland in October 1995. The
mission was led by Marc Juhel (Senior Port Specialist, TWUTD). Mission members were Messrs.
Enn Vasur (Senior Transport Economist, EC2ET), Piotr Krzyzanowski (Environment Specialist,
EMTEN), and William Hayden (Financial Analyst, Consultant). Peer reviewers are Messrs. Jacques
Yenny and Kek Chung. The Division Chief is Mr. Hans J. Apitz (EC2ET) and the Department
Director Mr. Jean-Michel Sevefino (EC2DR).



-1 -
L. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.1          Poland possesses extensive transport networks and facilities. Related to country area,
313,000 km2, and population, 38 million, transport densities are at an average European level. The
system includes about 360,000 km of roads of which more than 60% are paved (109 km/I 00 km2, EU:
128 km/100 km2), some 24,000 km of railway lines, of which 49% are electrified (EU: 38% on
average), three major ports with international traffic (Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin-Swinoujscie), close to
4,000 km of inland waterways, and four airports with scheduled intemational connections as well as a
large number of domestic airports (see IBRD Map 27435).
1.2          The present situation in the sector is shaped by two main factors: the legacy of the past
and the ongoing restructuring of the economy. In Poland, as elsewhere in Eastem Europe under the
former system, there was a general lack of competition, pricing was unimportant, and enterprises were
vertically integrated, providing their own technical and social services. There was a high degree of
centralization in decision-making. In the transport sector this led to a small number of very large
organizations, some with hundreds of thousands of employees. A deep transformation of objectives,
policies, legal and regulatory frameworks, structures and operations is now underway to enable the
sector to break away from state owned, centrally controlled monopolies geared to meet mainly physical
targets with scant regard for quality, financial and other efficiency criteria.  At the same time,
modemization of certain parts of the sector and a geographic redirection of emphasis for closer
integration with the economies of Westem Europe are of high priority.
1.3          This transformation has already achieved notable results. Partly as a consequence of
the transformation but also because of the severe drop in industrial output experienced during the first
years of the process, there has been a significant drop in traffic, especially for the railways, but the ports
have also been affected. However, following the mounting recovery of the national production system,
an upward trend seems to have taken root, in particular as far as intemational traffic is concerned.
B. Foreign Trade
1.4          During the last five years, Polish exports reached a level in the range between US$13
and US$17 billion. The highest level was reached in 1994 with US$16.9 billion, a 25% increase over
1993. Imports of goods increased sharply over the period and reached US$17.8 billion in 1994, an
increase of 12% over 1993, but a total increase of 52% compared with 1990.
1.5          The major import products are those of the electro-engineering industry, the chemical
industry, and the energy sector. Imports from the chemical industry make up for 18% of total imports,
whereas petroleum products and gas make little more than 10%.
1.6          For the coming period it can be expected that Polish exports will focus on commodities
which take advantage of low labor costs, as in the textile and clothing industries, woodworks and



-2-
metalworks industries. Export opportunities for agriculture and labor-intensive industries could further
be enhanced through Poland's accession to the European Union.
1.7          These evolutions will have direct consequences for the demand on the transport
system. In particular, since more than 55% of the Polish foreign trade (in tons) already goes through
the Polish ports--which is foreseen to reach 65% in 2005--, the effectiveness of the port sector, and the
reliability and efficiency of its connections with other land transport networks, will clearly be prominent
factors in fostering the national economic development in the years ahead.
C. Transport Sector Administration
1.8          The Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) has overall responsibility
for the transport sector within the government structure. The Ministry's responsibility covers road, rail,
air and maritime transport and infrastructure, plus some related activities such as a few minor shipyards
located within the port areas. The legal arrangements and actual operating arrangements between the
Ministry and its dependent entities vary, covering the full range from purely administrative units such as
the General Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP) to enterprises in which the Government retains
control. In recognition of the importance of separation of the functions of policy setting, ownership
and operations management, some of those enterprises, including the three main port authorities, were
transformed in joint-stock companies in 1992, the shares of which are fully owned by the Ministry of
Ownership Transformation pending their expected total or partial sale to external pubfic or private
investors. Annex 1 shows the administrative structure of the Polish transport sector.
1.9          MTME's main functions are: (i) policy formulation; (ii) elaboration of sectoral budgets;
(iii) allocation of budgetary funds and subsidies between subsectors and enterprises; (iv) overall
supervision of entities such as PKP, GDDP, and Port Authorities; as well as a variety of regulatory
activities, including safety regulations.
D. Sectoral Issues and Policies
1.10         The Transport Policy Paper issued by MTME in July 1994, and subsequently approved
by the Council of Ministers in the fall, spells out the priorities of the national transport policy. Among
those are clearly stated the requirements (i) to remove bottlenecks in the transport system, and (ii) to
achieve high economic, social and environmental effects, so as to strengthen the competitiveness of
Polish transport organizations, and hence of the national economy.
1.11         The main issues still confronting the transport sector can be listed as follows:
restructuring of state-owned transport organizations, level and employment structure, competition and
modernization.
Restructuring of State Owned Transport Organizations
1.12         The restructuring process has been underway for several years already, and many new
independent enterprises have been set up out of former large state monopoles. The Bank's First
Transport Project contributed to this process, in particular in the railways and roads sectors. One
common way of dealing with public companies has been a two-step approach, whereby (i) they were



-3-
first converted into joint-stock companies, the shares of which being fully owned by the Ministry of
Ownership Transformation during a specified time period, and (ii) at the expiration of this transitory
phase, sold in part or in full to external investors. This has been applied to the Port Authorities
(para.2.10). The second step of this process has proven more difficult than the first one and reaching
agreement on the conditions under which investors will participate has required considerable time.
Level and Employment Structure
1.13         Present shortcomings of the Polish transport system include excessive employment
levels in some subsectors. Such a situation exists mainly in rail transport, but generally the branch
employment structure does not fit the functional requirements of a modem transport system.
Differences with the branch employment structure in the EU are highlighted in the foUlowing table:
Table 1.1
Employment Structure in Transport in Poland and in the EU in 1991 (%)
Subsector                              EU                          Poland
Railway Transport                          16.1                         51.4
Inland Water Transport                     0.4                          0.6
Road Transport                            45.1                          27.8
Ports and Maritime Transport               3.9                          5.0
Air Transport                              6.3                           1.1
Auxiliary Activities                       28.2                         14.1
Source: Transport Policy Paper, July 1994
This points to the need to lower considerably the employment level in rail transport, and to a lesser
extent in sea transport, whereas the employment share in auxiliary activities (freight forwarding,
shipping agencies, logistics) should significantly increase. Although this adjustment process is already
underway, much remains yet to be done.
Competition and Modernization
1.14         The Government's expressed aim, as reiterated in the Transport Policy Paper, is to
increase competition in the whole transport sector.  The restructuring of public enterprises, as
mentioned above, is one element of this strategy. Both GDDP and PKP previously procured goods
and services available from their subsidiary units without competition, but are now inviting bids from
these and other enterprises. In the port subsector, most operating units have been formally separated
from the Port Authorities, but real competition between port services providers is still very much in its
infancy.
1.15         The modernization of the transport system also requires a better coordination between
the different transport modes. Combined road-rail transport has already met with some success in
Poland, but the necessary physical facilities need upgrading, and the organizational arrangements are



-4-
not yet optimal. The Bank's Roads Project has begun addressing these issues through a Pilot Program
under implementation. Combined transport can also include a better use of the waterway network,
which has badly suffered of neglect in maintenance in the past. An important step in improving the
development of efficient transport services would be to improve the physical connections between
different transport networks at critical transit points, among which the seaports of national importance
figure prominently.
E. Transport Investments
1.16         A significant shortcoming of the sector in recent years has been the low level of
investment, from both public and private sources, compared with the total domestic investments.
Indeed in 1992 the total national transport investments amounted to 4.4% of the total domestic
investments, even though the total transport assets accounted for 12.4% of the country's national
assets. Whereas in the EEC countries there are about US$0.09 of annual investment per tkm, there are
15 times less in Poland (US$0.006). The following table illustrates the share of transport investments
in Poland since 1986:
Table 1.2
Share of Transport Investments in Total Domestic Investments (%)
(1986-1993)
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993
6.93      7.18      7.52      5.25      5.51      5.08      4.45      5.10
Source: Transport Policy Paper, July 1994
1.17     The transport sector investments allocated through MTME for the different subsectors for
the period 1990-1994 have been as follows:



-5-
Table 1.3
Transport Sector Investments
ZL Billion / Million US$
(nominal terms)
1991                  1992                  1993                   1994
Railways         3,127.2     295.7      1,650.5    121. 1    2,950.6     162.9      4,389.2      193.2
Ports and         851.6       80.5      1,598.0     117.3     879.4       48.5      1,642.5       72.3
Shipping
Air Transport    1,708.2      161.5     1,393.1    102.2      777.3       42.9       964.3        42.4
Public Roads      313.2       29.6       398.3      29.2      715.9       39.5      1,257.5       55.3
Mscellaneous     1,329.4     125.7      1,042.4     76.5     2,005.6      110.7     2,921.5      128.6
Total            7,329.6     693.0      6,082.3    446.4    7,328.8      404.6      11,175.0     491.8
Source: MTME. (Miscellaneous includes mainly bus stations, vehicle fleets, construction
materials.)
F. Bank Experience in the Sector
1.18       The Bank has been involved in the sector since the late 80's. The ongoing First Transport
Project (Loans 3193-PO and 3194-PO, US$4.8 and 145.0 millions respectively, Staff Appraisal Report
843 1-POL of April 5, 1991) and the Roads Project (Loan 3564-PO, US$150.0 million, Staff Appraisal
Report 11226-POL of February 11, 1993) aim to support the restructuring and modernization of the
railways and highways respectively as well as to improve the overall traffic safety and to develop
combined transports.  The two Projects are progressing well, with the First Transport Project now
close to completion. Policy reform and restructuring have been implemented faster than foreseen, and
disbursements are following the expected schedule.



-6 -
II. THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A. Port Facilities
2.1          The Polish seashore comprises two maritime regions, the Eastern one centering
around Gdansk and Gdynia, and the Western one around Szczecin and Swinoujscie. The ports of
Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-Swinoujscie handle together over 95% of the Polish maritime
traffic (52 million tons in 1994), the remaining being shipped through a number of smaller ports
like Police, Stepnica, Kolobrzeg and Elblag. Generally speaking, although some of the port
facilities are near the end of their economic life, the two maritime regions have ample port
capacity to accommodate the traffic volumes forecasted up to 2005, as far as the overall
throughput is concerned. However, restructuring and modernization of existing facilities will be
necessary to accommodate changes in traffic patterns and structure--increase in ferry traffic, for
instance--and new functions such as value-added services.
2.2          Total present port throughput capacity, depending on the evolution of the traffic
structure between dry bulks, liquid bulks, and breakbulk/general cargo, stands between 70 and
80 million tons per year, which is potentially sufficient, as a whole, to cover traffic requirements
until 2005 (para.2.16). However, changes in the distribution of traffic flows, for instance from
export to import, may need significant conversion works of the corresponding facilities.
Similarly, the expected growth of general cargo, container and ferry traffic will demand
adjustments of the existing physical infrastructure. The various dedicated and common use port
facilities have potential capacity surpluses and shortfalls, which will have to be adjusted in order
to make the best economic use of the available assets.
2.3          Gdansk, with its North Port being the deepest of the Baltic Sea, can accommodate
ships up to 150,000 tdw and is the best equipped facility for dry and liquid bulk cargo handling,
with ample space available to cater for future developments (see IBRD Map 27439). Gdynia,
apart from its smaller scale bulk facilities and its general cargo areas, is equipped with a modern
container terminal, the Baltic Container Terminal, which started operations in 1979 and is the
only genuine container port in Poland (see IBRD Map 27438). Szczecin operates a mix of
breakbulk and bulk facilities, most of them being rather old and in a great need of repair (see
IBRD Map 27436). Swinoujscie is basically designed as a drybulk port, but is now diversifying
into breakbulk cargoes in addition to its industrial role (see IBRD Map 27437). Swinoujscie,
Gdynia, and Gdansk operate ferry and roll-on/roll-off terminals, the two former being by far the
most significant. A summary of port physical facilities is given in Annex 2.
2.4          Hinterland connections are in a poor state, in particular the road accesses, and
consequently severely hamper port throughput efficiency. The marked shift already underway
from rail to road for inland transport compounds this situation, which may jeopardize the



-7 -
efficiency gains realized within the ports, in particular for time-sensitive flows such as ferry and
container traffic. The proposed Project will concentrate on this aspect (paras.2.27 and 3.3).
B. Administrative Framework
2.5          From the end of the Second World War the main Polish ports have been managed
by dedicated State Companies. The ports of Szczecin and Swinoujscie have been managed as
one single company to date, whereas the ports of Gdansk and Gdynia after having been managed
by one port authority until 1954, have since then been managed separately.  These port
companies were acting as executive branches of the Ministry of Transport.
2.6          Nautical and maritime tasks, including navigation safety and maritime accesses
maintenance, have been executed by Urzad Morski (Maritime Bureau) in Gdynia, Szczecin, and
Slupsk, subordinated directly to the Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy.
2.7          The port ownership and management structure was thus strictly centralized.
Moreover, the major ports also acted as home bases for Polish Ocean Lines, and other state
owned shipping companies.  All seaborne transports were also centrally planned.  As a
consequence, Polish ports possessed a monopolistic position with regard to Polish foreign trade.
They operated mainly on behalf of the national economy and as transit points for cargoes from
Czechoslovakia and Hungary, within the COMECON framework.
2.8          The transportation of goods via Polish ports to and from the hinterland was
mainly done by train.  There was therefore no compelling reason to develop the road
infrastructure near the ports and in the port cities. As the majority of Polish waterways were
neglected and few are navigable, inland water transport has not been developed on a large scale.
Train transport was, and for bulk commodities still is, the major land carrier of seaborne freight
to and from inland destinations. The poor state of the road network leading to the ports is partly
a consequence of this situation.
2.9          Moreover, relations between port cities and their ports were weak. This, and the
domination of rail transport, resulted in a situation where ports and cities developed largely in
isolation. This situation is again reflected in the many poor and badly maintained access roads to
the various ports. This is therefore the reason why the Project proposes to focus on the port
road access aspect as a matter of priority.
Present Legal Framework
2.10         In order to separate policy setting, ownership and management functions in a
market economy, the state port enterprises were transformed between May and November 1992
into Joint Stock Companies of the State Treasury. The main legal basis for such a status can be
found in the Law on Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises, dated July 13, 1990. The State,



- 8 -
represented by the Treasury, is the legal owner of 100% of the capital of the Port Authorities
Companies, with the formal rights with regard to the use of capital and assets devolved to the
Ministry of Ownership Transformation. In a later phase, the law provides for the transfer of
shares of the joint stock companies into the hands of their final shareholders, the nature of whom
has to be defined in the new Ports Law to be enacted (para.2. 12).
2.11         During 1991 three Joint Stock Companies were established:
Port Authority of Szczecin-Swinoujscie, with a total staff of 5,000;
Port Authority of Gdynia, with a total staff of 6,700;
Port Authority of Gdansk, with a total staff of 4,000.
In this new structure the port enterprises became increasingly independent from the central
government. They gradually moved from operating companies under the direction of MTME to
full-scale port authorities provisionally linked to the Ministry of Ownership Transformation. In
the meantime they began separating the operating units from the management bodies, with the
intention to set up private commercial operating companies (paras.2. 17/24).
2.12         Providing the sector with a definitive official legal framework is a central issue.
The new Ports Law has been under preparation since 1991, and a final draft, in line with the
Bank's strategy in the sector, has been discussed between the various ministries involved for
more than a year, before being officially approved by the Council of Ministers on October 17,
1995. It now has to be approved by Parliament, where it is expected to be passed without major
difficulties, which should take place within three to four months. The preparation of the Project
contributed to the ideas and thinking behind the draft law. As a result of the draft law
discussions, both MTME and the Port Authorities have already started behaving in the spirit of
the law, therefore beginning to dispel the uncertainty as to legal and regulatory aspects, which
clearly was hampering further sector development.
2.13         The main thrust of the draft Ports Law is to provide for the new Port Authorities
to act as "landlords", in charge of managing the public infrastructure assets, while the port
commercial activities would be carried out by separate private operators, fully independent from
the Port Authorities. This concept, which is now broadly accepted among the port community,
appears as the most adequate arrangement. It must be complemented by a clear definition of the
regulating role to be played by MTME, which according to the draft law, will formally recover
its monitoring function over the sector as a whole, and will represent the State Treasury in the
Port Joint Stock Companies. The technical assistance component of the proposed Project will
provide help to work out practical implementation arrangements and regulations once the Ports
Law is passed (para.3.21). The principles of the proposed law are widely accepted and the
Polish authorities are preparing for their implementation. However, even in case of unforeseen



-9 -
delays with the new law the proposed Project will contribute to meaningful and high return
developments of port activities. It should also be noted that Polish ports already operate in an
international competitive context. In addition, domestic competition between ports in Poland is
significant.
Overall Sector Organization
2.14        The future organization of the sector will therefore consist of:
MTME, in charge of overall sector monitoring and regulation, through two
specific departments: the Department of Shipping and Seaports, directly
responsible for supervision of the Ports Authorities and assessment of their
development programs; and the Department of Sea and Inland Waterway
Administration, responsible for navigation safety through the Maritime Offices,
and for legal management of the port public assets;
the Port Authorities, in charge of the management of port infrastructure facilities,
and of the strategic development planning;
the private operating companies, in charge of all commercial operations in the
port areas.
C. Traffic
2.15        The port sector has been affected by many of the same forces that have influenced
the economy in general. With respect to physical throughput there has been a substantial
decline. Between 1980 and 1991 traffic has been reduced from 66 mt to 44 mt with imports cut
in half but exports only marginally reduced. The 1993 traffic recovered to above 48 mt, an
order of magnitude maintained in 1994 with about 52 mt. Gdynia, Gdansk and Szczecin handle
most of the breakbulk cargoes moving through Polish ports. Gdynia dominates the container
traffic, while the bulk trades are shared predominantly between Gdansk and Swinoujscie, Gdynia
and Szczecin handling a more limited, although significant, proportion. A summary of 1994 port
traffic for the three main ports is presented in Annex 3.
2.16        The forecasts available today, elaborated on the basis of anticipated domestic
economic growth and commodities market analysis, amended to take into account the possible
traffic diversion by other modes of land transport to and from neighboring countries, point to
around 62 mt of total port traffic for 2000, and around 78 mt for 2005. The commodities
expected to have important growth are general cargo, container and ferry traffic, with the overall
general cargo flows more than doubling between now and 2005. The container traffic, in
particular, is slated to register the most impressive growth, increasing by about 200% over the



- 10-
period, while the ferry traffic would follow with a 130% growth rate. Global traffic forecasts
are presented in Annex .
D. Port Organization
2.17        Within the relative legal vacuum created de facto since the formal transfer of the
administrative ownership of ports to the Ministry of Ownership Transformation and the
preparation of the new Ports Law, the ports themselves started to privatize parts of their
operations. In doing so, all three major ports developed different policies.
2.18        The Port of Gdansk, simultaneously with its establishment as a Joint-Stock
Company, formed 28 limited liability companies out of former departments of the port
enterprise. As a first stage, the Port Authority kept 45% of the shares of these companies, the
other 55% being owned by the workers. In a second step, in 1993 the Port Authority transferred
its 45% share to the individual companies, now consequently 100% employee-owned. The
operating companies own mostly light handling equipment and vehicles, whereas the
superstructure located on their dedicated areas is rented out by the Port Authority. These
companies employ a total of some 2,200 staff.
2.19        As a result of this transformation process, the Port Authority is now a smaller
organization with limited tasks, all commercial activities being left to the operating companies.
The Port Authority of Gdansk employs 400 people, and is responsible for infrastructure
development and maintenance, managing the lease and renting agreements with the operating
companies, and providing them with basic utilities services.
2.20        Although this is formally a genuine privatization process, the result in the field is
still remote from what should be expected from private commercial port operations, in particular
as far as competition is concerned. All stevedoring companies, for instance, work under the
umbrella of the Commercial Sea Port of Gdansk, an additional private company belonging to the
port workers (80%) and the companies themselves (20%). This umbrella company actually does
all the marketing for the stevedoring companies, based on a common tariff policy, and distributes
the work to keep everyone busy, which is nothing but a new monopoly situation, in fact a
workers monopoly. Furthermore, as a consequence of the way they were established, these
operating companies are generally greatly undercapitalized, unable to maintain and develop their
asset base, and it is likely that many would collapse if put in the midst of a true commercial
competition.
2.21        The Port of Gdynia took a cautious approach towards the privatization of its
operational activities. It has for some time been operating within the organizational framework
of the original state enterprise, while preparing for progressive divestiture of commercial
operations.  As a first step, seven entities were earmarked for separation from the Port
Authority, and internally restructured, shedding in the process about 2,000 jobs. In a second



move, two operational entities were hived off into independent companies in 1994, the Baltic
Container Terminal and the Baltic Grain Terminal. Two more are slated to follow in 1995. The
port and the independent companies together employ 4,700 staff.
2.22        For the time being, these companies are still fully owned by the Port of Gdynia,
but with the objective to open up their shareholding structure to allow local and foreign private
investors to take equity stakes, and finally to control the companies. This is a requirement of the
new Port Law, which will state that the Port Authorities should not have any commercial interest
in the operating companies.
2.23        The Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie, when established as a Joint-Stock Company,
formed 17 limited liability companies out of former departments of the port enterprise, as did the
Port of Gdansk (16 remain now, following a merger). The Port Authority has kept 45% of the
shares of these companies, the other 55% being owned by the workers. All fixed assets,
including equipment, are still owned by the Port Authority, which leases them to the operating
companies. Moreover, the Port Authority has a decisive say in the companies' tariff policy,
negotiates the contracts with customers on behalf of the companies, and coordinates the
distribution of work between the different companies. These companies employ around 3,800
staff, and the Port Authority about 500.
2.24        Clearly, this process stops short of any genuine privatization or commercialization
of operations in a competitive market situation. To comply with the new Ports Law soon to be
enacted, the Port Authority will have to withdraw from the operating companies. But their
present condition, with regard to finances, marketing, restructuring and management skills,
would prevent most of them from surviving without the support of the port administration, which
is actually managing them. Thus a process of further restructuring has to be foreseen.
E. Port Planning and Investment Program
2.25        The Transport Policy Paper spells out the priorities for the maritime transport
subsector, which as far as the ports are concerned, are as follows:
(a)   improve the competitiveness of Polish ports and shipping services;
(b)   develop ferry connections between Polish ports and ports around the Baltic
sea;
(c)   ensure greater navigation safety and ecological protection of the coastal
environment.
Apart from upgrading the technical capacity of the ports, the policy will also aim at completing
the institutional reform process, to achieve complete separation between port ownership,



- 12 -
management and commercial operations, to end monopoly situations, and to support the
development of multimodal transport technologies.
2.26          Consequently, and taking into account the significant potential reserve of capacity
already in place, investments in ports should serve to upgrade and modernize the services
provided, while refraining from increasing the global throughput potential. This potential,
however, must be adjusted to cope with the changes in foreign trade and traffic structures and
patterns. In doing so, priority must be given to investments towards improvement in unitized
cargoes' handling and transit, development of logistics services, and activation of efficient sea-
land combined transport operations.
2.27         The proposed Project will address these priority issues.  In improving road
accesses to the ports, it will contribute to enhance the service offered to unitized cargoes like
containers and goods shipped on ro-ro and ferry carriers. It will contribute to improve safety of
navigation in implementing a vessel traffic management system between Szczecin and
Swinoujscie, and to safety of road transport by diverting heavy trucks away from city centers to
better direct connections between ports and inland transport networks.
F. Port Finance and Cost Recovery
2.28         Before the economic reform  process was launched, the central government
decided, directly or indirectly, on the most important financial aspects in port management:
investments, tariffs, cargo allocation, costs of production factors. The combination of centrally
determined tariffs and cargo allocation implied that the ports had no influence over the volume of
cargo they handled, and therefore could not influence their total revenues by using competitive
pricing. Moreover, as the cost of production was by and large determined by the central
government there was little room left for the ports themselves to manage their financial
performance.
2.29         Today the ports are formally joint-stock companies under the supervision of the
government, but it is not clear how far the monitoring tasks to be logically performed by MTME
are actually carried out, in particular as investments and tariffs are concerned. The situation
should become clearer when the new Ports Law, which includes provisions on the relationships
between the ministry and the ports on these matters, is finally enacted. In addition, the role of
the central government with respect to cargo allocation and costs has now practically ended. The
cargo is allocated between ports on a commercial basis, and the costs are market related, with the
result that the financial performance of the ports is now to a large extent determined by their
management.
2.30         Although the profits of the port sector are reportedly lower than in the seventies,
positive results are still made. Compared with the former situation the share of the gross profit
that the central government takes has decreased: the income tax presently stands at 40%, instead



- 13 -
of 60% in the past, and ports pay a dividend, halved in 1993, which actually has more a
character of interest than of dividend, being linked to a percentage of the share capital and not to
the performance of the company.  However, under the present tax and dividend rules a
significant part of the gross profit--between 50 and 70% depending on ports--is still paid to the
government.
Port Revenues
2.31         Port revenues consist of charges for services in the areas of navigation, use of
berths and cargo and passenger operations. Services for navigation include conservancy, port
accesses, safety, and specific services such as pilotage, towage, and mooring/unmooring. Berth
related charges relate to berth occupation, and various ancillary services to the ship. Cargo and
passengers services include the various components of cargo handling, storage and equipment
utilization. The Port Authorities of Gdansk and Szczecin-Swinoujscie have transferred part of
these functions to separate operating companies, and therefore receive rental revenues for the
infrastructure, superstructure and equipment rented and fees for some administrative services.
Financial Position of the Port Authorities
2.32         The financial statements for the three main Port Authorities of Gdansk, Gdynia
and Szczecin-Swinoujscie for the years 1992, 1993, 1994 and the first six months of 1995
together with a review of their financial performance are shown in Annex 5. During this period
inflation was running at over 30% per annum, significant restructuring of the authorities was
undertaken and changes in accounting principles were introduced. In the circumstances, caution
must be used interpreting the results. Part of the effect of inflation was offset through the
revaluation of fixed assets. In spite of these limiting factors, however, it is felt that the accounts
provide reasonable guidelines on the financial results during the three and a half year period
ending June 30, 1995. All three authorities were established as joint stock companies with the
National Treasury holding all the shares. All three have established associated or "daughter"
companies to operate the port and so the major part of their revenue comes in the form of rent
for the leasing of the port infrastructure to the operating companies.
2.33         The authorities achieved operating ratios of 60/70% during the three years 1992-
1994. During the first six months of 1995, however, the operating ratios ranged from 82% for
Gdansk to 87% for Gdynia. A fall in traffic, mainly transit traffic, at all three ports, together
with an erosion of tariffs caused by the devaluation of the US dollar, was the main cause for this
increase. Another contributing factor was an increase in operating costs resulting from inflation.
The rise in operating costs in 1995 was moderated to some extent by a reduction in the level of
depreciation charged. Some reduction in depreciation rates are justified with the transfer of
equipment to the daughter companies. The average rate of return on net fixed assets for the
three years 1992 through 1994 ranged from about 11 % for Gdynia to 16% for Szczecin. The
rate fell substantially for all three authorities for the first six months of 1995 to an average of



- 14 -
about 5 %.  The reduction resulted from  the fall in profitability coupled with a substantial
revaluation of net fixed assets.
2.34         The level of investment during the three and a half year period was in line with
the level of depreciation charged by Gdansk and Gdynia and about 50% higher in the case of
Szczecin. Internal cash generation provided the authorities with sufficient funds to meet their
increased requirement for working capital, to finance all investment and to pay a substantial sum
in tax on their profits. The Authorities do not have major problems in collecting receivables.
2.35         During the period under review there was a substantial increase in the nominal
value of the Authorities' net fixed assets but this was mainly due to revaluation. The Authorities
have no long-term debt. The Government has a very substantial equity investment in the three
Authorities totaling old ZL 11,435 billion.
2.36         The trading results for the three years 1992-1994 were satisfactory, but a
significant decline took place during the first six months of 1995 (para.2.33).  The present
financial positions of the three Authorities are very strong with all their financing provided by
equity investment.  The Authorities are in a position to finance major capital investment
programs from  their own resources and to supplement these with substantial borrowing, if
required. A Government guarantee may be required at present due to conditions in the local
financial market and for country reasons for foreign borrowing. The Authorities should be in a
position to meet the debt service obligations on borrowing together with a guarantee fee.
2.37         In the existing context, the overall financial management of the port authorities
can be considered satisfactory. The national exchange rate management principles, together with
the effects of domestic inflation, may affect the profitability of the ports and require tariffs
adjustments to keep up with operating costs. But the ports operate in a competitive environment
in international transport, and have therefore to improve their competitiveness to keep their share
of the market. The proposed Project will precisely help increase the ports competitiveness and
improve their management capacity. The second operation, the Port Modernization Project, will
address more specifically the issue of the ports' tariff policy and internal financial management.
Cost Recovery
2.38         The analysis of the financial accounts of the Port Authorities shows that overall
cost recovery seems satisfactory, even if the present transitory situation may blur somewhat the
situation, in particular as far as the use of national budgetary resources is concerned, as for
dredging activities. The clear separation of the Port Authorities from any commercial activities,
as provided for in the new PRrts l,aw, will undoubtedly help clarify the financial picture.
2.39         As far as the Project investments are concerned, however, the situation is much
clearer. The road and bridge components, which make up to 78% of the total cost of the



- 15 -
Project, will be handled by the General Administration of Public Roads (GDDP), which is in
charge of managing the public roads of the country. The cost recovery from road users, through
various taxes associated with road use, amounts to more than twice the amount spent for the road
sector in Poland. Although taxes, especially fuel taxes, as well as expenditures on roads, will
have to be raised in order to (i) harmonize the tax levels with Western Europe and (ii)
accommodate the rapidly growing road traffic, the present cost recovery is deemed satisfactoiy
and acceptable to the Bank.



-16-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1          The objective of the overall port sector modernization program is to contribute to
the development of an efficient administrative/managerial structure and improvement of physical
facilities in the ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-Swinoujscie, so that they will provide
efficient services in competition with other ports serving their potential hinterlands. Due to the
still ongoing process of establishing a new legal framework for the port authorities, a two-stage
approach has been developed: a first Project, the present Port Access and Management Project,
includes the components which are of top priority for the overall modernization program and
prerequisites for further modernization and improvements, but mostly outside the port
authorities' direct jurisdiction, whereas a second Project, the Port Modernization Project, would
include the components under the direct management of the port authorities, such as
rehabilitation of physical facilities, ship waste collection and treatment facilities, etc. Moreover,
the preparation of the tentative components of the possible second Project being less advanced
than those identified for the first one, the overall Project sequence will allow the preparatory
works to go on for the second Project, while the most pressing issues will be addressed through
the first one. It is also expected that the enactment of a new Port Bill in the meantime will have
set the stage for effective dealings with the port authorities.
3.2          The Project would fit within the Country Assistance Strategy defined in the CAS
report dated October 20, 1994, as a medium-sized transport infrastructure Project aiming at
bridging some missing links in basic infrastructure facilities, and which would be limited to
investments not likely to attract private financing (CAS para.41), while helping setting the stage
for further private sector participation in port operations.
3.3          The objectives of the proposed Project are therefore to improve:
physical access to the ports; and
management capacity in the ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-
Swinoujscie.
Achieving these objectives will strengthen the ports' capacity to provide efficient services and to
connect more effectively with domestic inland transport networks, thus enhancing the
competitiveness of the whole transport chain. In addition, the Project would assist the Borrower,
through technical assistance and training, in implementing the new institutional set-up now being
devised for the port sector. In view of the present overcapacity and the unclear future situation
of ports in the Baltic and their hinterlands, the two Projects will focus on clearly identified needs
for the Polish ports and would thus not contribute to a general port overcapacity in the Baltic Sea
region.



-17-
B. Project Description
3.4         There would be two main aspects: a Policy and Institutional Component and an
Investment Component. These are summarized below and described in more details in the
following paragraphs.
Description Summary
(a)   Policy and Institutions: the Project would support measures to adjust the
relationship between government, local government, port authority and the
private sector through adequate legislation. The concept would be based
on the emerging structures as outlined in para.2.14 above.  The Port
Authorities would have essentially a landlord function and be owned by a
combination of government, municipal and private entities. The port
operating companies should be commercial enterprises, contributing to the
decisions of the Port Authority but not controlled by it. Development of
the Port Authorities will be supported through technical assistance and
training.  Increased competition between private enterprises in the
stevedoring, warehousing and other port services is foreseen.
(b)   Investments: the Project would include:
(i)   construction of the Martwa Wisla access bridge to the Gdansk
North-East Port;
(ii)   protection of the Wisla Smiala outlet in Gdansk;
(iii)  construction of the new Regalica and Parnica bridges allowing
access to Szczecin central port area;
(iv)  improvement of the road connection between Swinoujscie and
Szczecin through Wolin;
(v)   first phase modernization of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie fairway
through implementation of a vessel traffic management system.
The most crucial access problem for the port of Gdynia, duly acknowledged during Project
identification--the completion of the Kwiatkowski road improving access to the container
terminal--is already included in the ongoing Road Project.
Road Access to the Gdansk North Port
3.5         The Port of Gdansk is divided into three sections: (i) the West or old port,
separated from the two other areas by the Vistula river; (ii) the East Port, mainly in use for the
transfer of miscellaneous bulk commodities; and (iii) the North Port, comprising the largest bulk
cargo terminals of Poland, handling also breakbulk and general cargo. The North Port, located



-18-
on the Stogi island, is by far the most important section, representing 95% of the cargo handled
in Gdansk in 1994. It is specialized in dry and liquid bulk cargoes, the main commnodities being
oil products, coal, sulphur and phosphates.  Grain, timber and general cargo are also
loaded/unloaded in the North Port.
3.6         The North Port is presently connected to the main highway network (E-77)
through the Sucharskiego road and the Siennicka bridge across the Vistula river.  This
connection which actually consists of city streets has poor traffic conditions due to its character
and sharp bends and three low rail viaducts. The Project would create an alternative connection
between the port areas and the E-77. Furthermore, in the light of the port-related development
Projects located on the Stogi island, upgrading the road connection between the island and the
mainland is a prerequisite for any further development of the whole area, which is earmarked as
the main land reserve for city and port development. Also, the implementation of this new
access road will be the first stage of a broader operation, later allowing the Stogi island to be
directly connected to the Gdansk-Gdynia ringroad.
3.7         The proposed Project includes (i) construction of an access road to the new bridge
location; (ii) construction of a 140 m bridge over the Martwa Wisla (Dead Vistula) river; and
(iii) road connection between the bridge and the E-77 via an embankment (see IBRD Map
27439).
Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection
3.8          The Wisla Smiala river joins the Baltic Sea through the East and West
breakwaters. However, due to natural phenomena combined with poor maintenance over the
past years, the breakwaters have ceased to function as such and have turned into massive and
irregular heaps of stones. The situation is further worsened by the significant deposits of silt and
sand carried by the tide and the river waters. The river bed is now heavily silted. The overall
present condition of the outlet has therefore become a real threat to the safety of population,
property and industry situated in the catchment zone of the river, since large areas could be
inundated during river flooding, the natural water discharge into the sea being more or less
physically blocked.
3.9         In view of the above, the Maritime Bureau (Urzad Morski) decided to rebuild the
breakwaters, and to carry out some related marine works to reopen the river outlet for
navigation. Accordingly, the proposed Project would consist of (i) reconstruction of the East and
West breakwaters and of the related shore protection; (ii) dredging works in the river's mouth to
recover the former depth of around 4 m required to allow for effective flood prevention; and (iii)
supply and installation of related navigation aids.



-19-
Road Access to Szczecin Central Port Area
3.10         The port of Szczecin is located in the river delta between the West and East Odra.
Since the port, as well as other main Polish ports, was constructed mainly as a rail port, its road
connections are grossly inadequate. Moreover, the existing access roads are in poor conditions.
Further development and the introduction of modem port functions are essentially dependent
upon the improvement of the access to the port area from the main highway system.
3.11         The port area is surrounded by rivers. The access to the port on the west side
runs directly into the center of the city, whereas the eastern outlet crosses the Regalica river
(East Odra) via a low capacity connection, using an old and dilapidated bridge. The main road
system connecting Szczecin to other destinations in Poland, as well as to the Berlin area, lies to
the east of the city (E-65, SR-10, E-28). Apart from these limitations, the access road system is
further characterized by narrow road width, and small horizontal radii causing traffic hazards, in
particular for long vehicles (see IBRD Map 27436).
3.12         The Project consists of two parts: (i) the construction of a new 560 m bridge over
the Regalica river, with the related access roads and connections; and (ii) a fly-over between
Gdanska street and the port central area, over the Parnica river, with the related connections to
the existing road system. Although the Parnica bridge sub-component is less advanced as far as
the final design is concerned, it is proposed to keep the option to include it in the Project, for its
contribution to the improvement of port access is critical for the port to take full advantage of the
new Regalica bridge. In any case, the implementation schedule of the Parnica sub-component
would have to follow the Regalica bridge schedule with at least a one-year gap, which allows for
all parameters to be finalized in due time.
Improvement of the Road Connection between Swinoujscie and Szczecin through Wolin
3.13         The E-65, road originating in Swinoujscie, is the main traffic North-South
connection in western Poland. The Wolin road constitutes its northernmost element, connecting
the city and port facilities of Swinoujscie with the Szczecin ring road. The E-65 is an important
element in the trans-European road system, (i) internationally, as a transit route for traffic from
Scandinavia towards the Adriatic Sea and the Balkans, and (ii) domestically, as the main
connection between the western Polish ports of Szczecin and Swinoujscie, and the main industrial
centers located in the south of the country. The E-65 begins in the eastern district of Swinoujscie
town, with the ferry terminal as its starting point. It is the only road link between Swinoujscie
and the rest of Poland (see IBRD Map 27440).
3.14         The main constraints impeding traffic on the Wolin road consist of: (i) the low
level turning bridge over the Dwina river in Wolin town, with a width of only 6 m and frequent
openings; (ii) the passage through the town of Wolin, with its narrow streets and bends; (iii) the
passage through the Dargobadz village, with sharp turns and narrow width; and (iv) a 6.3 km
stretch through the Wolin National Park, with limited width and narrow bends.



-20-
3.15         In order to adapt the road to modem  traffic requirements and improve
environment and safety aspects of existing infrastructure, these bottlenecks should be eliminated.
The proposed Project therefore includes: (i) a by-pass of the village of Dargobadz; and (ii) the
modernization of the road section through the Wolin National Park.  Due to obvious
environmental reasons, a compromise design for this latter component was worked out so as to
minimize the potential consequences on the National Park.  Additional elements of the
improvement program, including a new bridge over the Dwina river east of Wolin, and a by-pass
of the town of Wolin, were initially also contemplated, but were finally dropped because of their
insufficient economic justification.
3.16         When reviewing the possibilities to upgrade the road section through the Wolin
National Park, alternative options were considered. The most attractive one was to design a new
road running north of the existing one, roughly parallel to the existing railway line. However,
apart from the sheer cost factor, this option had to be dismissed on environmental grounds (see
para.3.41). Consequently, the limited modernization of the existing section is the preferred
solution.
First Phase Modernization of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway:
Implementation of a Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS)
3.17         The port of Szczecin is situated at the estuary of the Odra river, 65 km from the
port of Swinoujscie and the open sea. Szczecin port facilities can accommodate ships up to 210
m long. The fairway from Swinoujscie to Szczecin consists of several dredged channel sections
with a design depth of 10.5 m and a maximum width of 100 m. The port of Swinoujscie,
managed together with Szczecin under a single port authority, is located at the mouth of the river
on the Wolin island. The two other ports locations of Police and Stepnica, established along the
fairway, are operating under the control of the Szczecin Maritime Office, which monitors the
navigation in the fairway, but are not managed by the Szczecin-Swinoujscie port authority.
3.18         Today the navigation in the fairway is difficult because of a series of
impediments. These include: (i) dangerous bends between the Swinoujscie breakwaters at the
fairway's entrance, and at three more locations in the fairway; (ii) badly protected banks in the
narrow stretches of the fairway, forcing vessels to pass at very low speed to avoid further
degradation; (iii) inadequate channel width and depth in several locations; (iv) missing
breakwater at the South entrance of the Piastowski canal; (v) lack of required navigation aids and
beacons; and (vi) no vessel traffic management system available along the fairway. As a
consequence of this situation, the entire fairway is in fact a one-way-traffic channel, resulting in
considerable time losses in passing through. Furthermore, ships beyond 176 m are only allowed
to sail through the fairway during day-time, because of the lack of safety monitoring system,
which causes significant additional downtime to most ships calling at Szczecin (see IBRD Map
27440).



-21-
3.19        The fairway modernization program therefore consists of two parts: physical
rehabilitation and upgrading, and improvement of traffic management capacity. The proposed
Project will address the latter, while the former, which includes mainly civil works and
dredging, would be part of the second operation tentatively defined as the Port Modernization
Project. The rationale behind this split is that while the need to improve the safety monitoring
capacity should be addressed quickly, the physical works under consideration require a more
detailed feasibility analysis, including a dedicated environmental assessment. These analyses and
assessments are being carried out in the meantime, and results are expected to be available by
mid-1996.
3.20        The vast majority of ports of international significance have introduced a Vessel
Traffic Management System (VTMS) within their operational tools. A VTMS is a combination
of radar and real-time communications links, complemented by a processing software allowirg
the port or the maritime authority to constantly visualize and monitor the traffic situation, by
providing it with real-time indicators and a capacity to anticipate and avert hazardous traffic
configurations. A VTMS will also help enforcing navigation rules by detecting and alerting the
monitoring authority in case of breach by an incoming ship in the area covered by the system. In
the case of Szczecin, an additional benefit will be that improved vessel traffic management will
have a bearing on the efficient use of the fairway and might possibly ease dredging requirements.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.21        This component will provide for institutional advice and training in the field of
regulation of port activities, management and maintenance of public assets, and divestiture of
commercial activities to the private sector. More specifically, it will include assistance to the
Polish Administration in working out the practical implementation arrangements and related
regulations once the Ports Law would have been passed. Terms of Reference for this task are
presented in Annex 6. Training needs for the central ministerial units as well as for the ports'
management teams will be assessed following the finalization of the provisions of the new Ports
Law, taking into account the need to translate the new institutional framework into practical
working relationships between the different units involved. The training program framework
is shown in Annex 7 and, together with the Terms of Reference for the Technical
Assistance, has been formally agreed upon at negotiations (para.5.2.(ii)).
C. Design and Engineering
3.22        Overall Project management will be coordinated, under the umbrella of the
Shipping and Seaports Department of MTME, by GDDP for the roads and bridges components,
by Urzad Morski for the maritime components, and by the Port Authorities for the management
information component. Project design for the investment components has been carried out by
consultants funded by the Netherlands Trust Fund for Eastern and Central Europe, in
collaboration with Polish consultants, GDDP, Urzad Morski, and the Ports Authorities. Western
European and Polish standards were being used, the two being very close. Detailed design



-22-
engineering is being carried out by Polish consultants and the Technical Departments of the
Voivodhips' administrations.
D. Cost Estimates
3.23         The total Project cost (including contingencies, taxes and duties where applicable)
is estimated to be about US$145.6 million, of which US$125.3 would be for road and bridge
components under GDDP monitoring. The direct and indirect foreign exchange cost is estimated
at about US$76.1 million. These costs include 10% physical contingencies and 15% price
contingencies. A summary of cost estimates is given below and Annex 8 shows the estimated
Project costs in more details.
'rable 3.1
Project Cost Estimate
(in US$ Million)
(US$ Million)
Component                Foreign             Local              Total
Road Accesses                       62.7               62.6              125.3
Maritime Accesses (VTMS)            5.0                0.0                5.0
Coastal Protection                  6.9                6.9                13.8
TA/Training                         1.5                0.0                1.5
Grand Total                         76.1               69.5              145.6
of which:
Technical Contingencies             6. 1               5.6               11.7
Price Contingencies                 9.1                8.3               17.4
E. Financing
3.24         The proposed Bank loan of US$67 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost, estimated at about 50% of the road accesses costs and of the coastal protection
costs. of the Bank-financed components (the financing plan of the Regalica bridge in Szczecin
provides for part of the works--access roads--to be financed out of the Bank loan, as indicated in
Table 3.3), and 100% of the technical assistance and training. The loan would be to the
Government of Poland. The Govermnent's contribution to the cost of the Project would be
provided:
(a)   through GDDP's budgets for most of the road accesses component;



-23-
(b)   through voidvoships' budgets for complementary funding of some road
components, like the North Port Connection in Gdansk and the Regalica
bridge in Szczecin;
(c)   through MTME's budgets for the coastal protection component.
Table 3.2
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Foreign               Local                Total
| Goverrunent                9.1                  69.5                 78.6
IBRD                         67.0                 0.0                  67.0
L  TOTAL     0   X   76.1          1 0     69.5                 145.6
Financing arrangements and the availability of sufficient and timely counterpart funds for
the Project have been confirmed at negotiations (para.5.2.(iii)).
F. Implementation and Monitoring
3.25         The Department of Shipping and Seaports in MTME will act as the overall
coordinator of the Project, with the support of the existing World Bank Projects Monitoring Unit
(PMU) set up in MTME under the First Transport Project . GDDP will manage the road
accesses component, the Department of Sea and Inland Waterway Administration will manage
the maritime accesses and coastal protection components, and the Department of Shipping and
Seaports will manage the technical assistance and training component. The Director of the
Department of Shipping and Seaports will be the designated Project Coordinator. GDDP has
extensive experience in implementing Bank Projects, which is sufficient to enable it to efficiently
manage the road access component, and the PMU in MTME will provide the two Ministerial
Departments involved, as well as the Port Authorities, with any assistance they may require in
carrying out Project implementation tasks. An outline of the Project Implementation Plan is
given in Annex 9. The Project Completion Date is December 31, 2001, and the Loan Closing
Date June 30, 2002. An implementation schedule is given in Annex 10 and an estimated
disbursement schedule in AnnexI 11. These dates and the schedule are based on the Europe and
Central Asia Transportation Project standard disbursement profile.
3.26        To monitor progress in Project implementation and, in particular, on the
institutional side, there will be regular meetings between the Polish authorities and the
Bank, according to a schedule agreed during negotiations (para.5.2.(iv)). Supervision of



-24-
contracts will be the responsibility of GDDP and Urzad Morski, under the overall monitoring of
the Department of Shipping and Seaports in MTME.
3.27               The development impact of the Project will be monitored through descriptive and
quantitative indicators relying mainly on port traffic statistics and modal split for land transport.
The Port Authorities will be required to provide this information on a regular basis through the
Project Progress Reports (Annex9). This reporting requirement has been agreed upon
during negotiations (para.5.2.(viii)).
G. Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
3.28               Procurement of the Bank-financed elements of the Project will be carried  out as
shown in the table below:
Table 3.3
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) a/
Component                         ICB                Other b/             N.B.F.              TOTAL
Civil Works                                    120.7                                     18.4                 1.
(60.5)                                                       (60.5)
Access to Szczecin Central Port Area            66.6                                     18.4                85.0
(33.4)                                                       (33.4)
Wolin Road Renovation                           8.9                                                           8.9
(4.5)                                                        (4.5)
Gdansk North Port Connection                    31.4                                                         31.4
(15.7)                                                       (15.7)
Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection                  13.8                                                         13.8
(6.9)                                                        (6.9)
Equipment and Materials                         5.0                                                           LO
(5.0)                                                        (5.0)
VTMS in Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway            5.0                                                           5.0
(5.0)                                                        (5.0)
TA/Training                                                          1.5                                      L5
(1.5)                                    (1.5)
TOTALS                                 |       125.7        |        1.5        |        18.4        |       145.6
l________________________________   j            (65.5)       j       (1.5)        _                  J        (67.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed
a/ including contingencies
b/ in accordance with Consultants' guidelines



-25-
All procurement will be carried out according to Bank guidelines of January 1995, using the
Bank Standard Bidding Documents (para.5.2.(v)).  A Project implementation schedule
appears in Annex 9.
Country Procurement Procedures
3.29        A Country Procurement Assessment Report has been prepared in 1995, has been
discussed with the Polish Authorities and finalized.
Domestic Suppliers and Contractors
3.30        The local construction industry in the road sector is already well developed, and is
participating in construction contracts financed under ongoing Bank Projects. It can therefore be
expected that local contractors will bid for the works included in the proposed Projects.
Implementing Agency
3.31        The Department of Shipping and Seaports in MTME will act as the overall
coordinator of the Project ,with the support of the existing World Bank Projects Monitoring Unit
(PMU) set up in MTME under the First Transport Project (para.3.25). GDDP will manage the
road accesses component, the Department of Sea and Inland Waterway Administration will
manage the maritime accesses and coastal protection components, and the Department of
Shipping and Seaports will manage the technical assistance and training component.  The
Director of the Department of Shipping and Seaports is the designated Project Coordinator.
GDDP has extensive experience in procurement in Bank Projects' implementation, which is
sufficient to enable it to efficiently manage the road access component, and the PMU in MTME
will provide the two Ministerial Departments involved, as well as the Port Authorities, with any
assistance they may require in carrying out procurement tasks. The MTME confirmed during
negotiations that it will maintain the PMU in accordance with staffing plan and Terms of
Reference satisfactory to the Bank (para.5.2.(vi)).
Notifications
3.32        The General Procurement Notice has been published in Development Business in
January 1996. The Project Launch Workshop will be held around mid-1996, and will give the
opportunity to review the detailed procurement arrangements for the different Project
components.



-26-
Methods of Procurement
Civil Works
3.33        The civil works, road and bridge construction and coastal protection works,
represent 95% of total Project cost. They will be procured under ICB under separate contracts
for the different Project components as described in para.3.4, and presented in the Procurement
Plan in Annex 12. Bidders will be prequalified for road and bridges construction, as well as for
marine works, using the Bank's Prequalification Document. The Bank 's Standard Bidding
Documents for Works, dated January 1995, will be used.
Equipment
3.34        Equipment will be procured under the Project according to the procurement plan
given in Annex 12. The Vessel Traffic Management System for the Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Fairway will be procured through ICB. All equipment procurement will follow Bank guidelines
and, since it will involve supply and installation, will use the Draft Bank Standard Bidding
Documents for Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment, dated February 1995.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.35        Technical assistance and training will be procured following Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants by Bank Borrowers. The Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants'
Services will be used. Thresholds for prior review by the Bank of procurement of Consultants'
Services will be US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for
individual consultants.  An overall framework for technical assistance and training is
provided in Annexes 6 and 7 and has been formally agreed upon at negotiations
(para.5.2. (ii)).
Bank Review of Procurement Documentation
3.36        All bidding documents for civil works will be subject to prior review and
approval of procurement documentation by the Bank. Bidding documents for purchase of
equipment, for contracts estimated to cost US$1 million or more will be subject to prior review
and approval of procurement documentation. Proposals for the engagement of consultants will
be reviewed in accordance with Bank guidelines (para.5.2.(v)).
H. Disbursements
3.37        The proceeds of the loan, amounting to US$67 million, will be disbursed as
follows:



-27-
Table 3.4
(US$Million)
Category          Item           Allocation   Percent to be Financed by the Loan
1     Civil Works               54.4     50%
2      Equipment and Materials   4.5     100% of foreign or 100% of local
expenses (ex-factory cost) excluding
taxes and duties; 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally.
3      TA/Training               1.3     100%
4      Unallocated               6.8
IL-___ I          TOTAL              67.0        l
A schedule of estimated disbursements based on the regional and sectoral historical profile is
included in Annex 11.  To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under condition acceptable to the Bank, Special Accounts in the
currency of each loan tranche (i.e., in US Dollars and Deutsche Marks), as follows: two Special
Accounts A, one in US Dollars and one in Deutsche Marks, for use by GDDP; one Special
Account B in US Dollars, for use by MTME. During the early stage of the Project. the initial
allocations of the Special Accounts A would be limited to US$1 million for the Dollar Special
Account, and DEM 1.5 million for the DEM Special Account; and the initial allocation of the
Special Account B would be limited to US$0.6 million.  However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the loan have reached the level of US$7.5 million and DEM  11 million
respectively for the Special Accounts A, and US$4.5 million for the Special Account B, the
initial allocations may be increased up to the authorized allocations of US$2.25 million for the
Dollar Special Account A, DEM 3.34 million for the DEM Special Account A, and US$1.5
million for the Special Account B, by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents
(para.5.2.(vii)). Retroactive financing of design, studies and technical assistance costs up to a
limit of US$1 million, and limited to the period after appraisal, i.e. October 27, 1995, may be
required. Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts
up to US$1 million equivalent for which detailed documents evidencing expenditures will be
reviewed and kept by the Borrower, and made available for the required audit as well as to Bank
supervision  missions.    These  arrangements  have  been  confirmed  at negotiations
(para.5.2.(vii)).



-28-
I. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
3.38         GDDP, Urzad Morski and the Port Authorities will report to the Department of
Shipping and Seaports in MTME, which will act as the overall coordinator of the Project. The
Project Coordinator will compile a master report from these contributions and forward it to the
Bank. The format and timing of the progress reports, giving physical and financial progress
of the Project, have been agreed upon at negotiations (para.5.2.(viii)). MTME will be
required to maintain separate Project accounts for the Bank-financed parts of the Project, and to
have these accounts audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.  Copies of the certified
financial statements and the auditor's report thereon should be provided to the Bank not
later than six months after the close of each filnancial year (para.5.2.(viii)). Furthermore the
Port Authorities will prepare, six months prior to the beginning of the each financial year,
financial forecasts for three years (Income Statement, Cash-Flow Statement and Balance Sheet) in
a format to be agreed with the Bank. These forecasts will be annually forwarded to the Bank
(para.5.2.(ix)).
J. Environmental Impact
3.39         The Project has been classified as a "B" under OD 4.00, meaning that only
limited environmental review will be required; however, the Wolin Road Improvement
component has been classified as "A", and therefore a full environmental assessment is
mandatory for this component. The Project does not involve, however, resettlement of people.
The following paragraphs present the status of the Project components with regard to their
environmental impact.
Improvement of the Road Connection between Swinoujscie and Szczecin through Wolin
3.40         A full environmental assessment for this component has been carried out by
Polish Consultants and its draft forwarded to the Bank Board in October 1995.  The
environmental assessment was then amended to integrate the remarks made during appraisal, and
the final version, received in the Bank in early January 1996, has been found fully satisfactory.
The overall environmental consequences of the improvement program will be as follows:
(a)   less air pollution due to an improved traffic flow, especially during peak
periods,
(b)   a reduction in air pollution outside the village of Dargobadz;
(c)   less air pollution in the Wolin National Park;
(d)   a corresponding reduction in traffic noise;
(e)    overall, a safer transport route; and
(f)   an enlargement of the natural afforested area in the Wolin National Park,
as a result of the agreement reached between the Park, the local
government and MTME .



-29-
In view of the above, the Wolin National Park Authority confirmed its agreement on the Project
as designed, and the field investigations to precisely determine the portions of land which will be
handed over by the Park to the Voivodhip, to allow for the works to take place, have been
carried out. A specific mitigation plan to alleviate any possible impact on the fauna dwelling on
the park grounds has been devised as part of the environmental assessment. The National Park
agreement cleared the way for the official approval to be given by the Ministry of
Environment, which was a condition for negotiations, and was fulfilled accordingly on
January 22, 1996 (para.5.1).
3.41        During Project design, an alternative solution was considered, consisting of a new
alignrnent running North of the afforested area of the Park, roughly following the existing
railway track. However, this area is still part of the Wolin National Park, which goes up to the
seashore, and more importantly, is a preferred area for nesting and reproduction for numerous
animal species. Apart from the sheer cost factor, it appeared therefore clearly unsuitable for the
kind of works under consideration which, under this alternative, would have been of a much
greater scale than the limited improvement program finally adopted.
Other Roads and Bridges Components
3.42        The two other access road components present broadly the same environmental
urban context, and consequently the same pattern of environmental impacts, which can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   exhaust emissions will be reduced in the residential/urban areas;
(b)   exhaust emissions will be reduced by improved driving conditions and
reduced driving distances;
(c)   noise generation will be reduced in the residential/urban areas, and will be
more evenly spread over the available road network;
(d)   nuisance associated to noise generation will be lowered by reduced vehicle
transit time through the urban areas; and
(e)   hazardous cargoes and heavy  traffic will be diverted from  the
residential/urban areas, therefore increasing traffic safety and comfort for
the population.
Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection
3.43        The rehabilitation of the Wisla Smiala entrance will bring about the following
environmental benefits:
(a)   safeguarding the flow pattern of the waters through the Wisla Smiala
outlet, thereby ensuring effective flood prevention for the city of Gdansk;



-30-
(b)   maintaining the local natural balance between the sea, the land and the
river, therefore contributing towards the stabilization of the seashore and
of the existing ecosystem.
To ascertain the nature and quality of sediments to be dredged out of the outlet as part of the
rehabilitation process, samples of sand were taken from the channel bottom and are being
analyzed. Final decision about the appropriate form of disposal will be made upon results of the
analysis. It was further agreed during appraisal that when dredging activities are carried out,
additional measures will be taken to better isolate the neighboring birds sanctuarium from any
potential threat. Moreover, when the outlet is rehabilitated, the Maritime Office together with
the regional branch of the Academy of Sciences will issue administrative restrictions on ship
speed in the outlet, cooperate on protection of the sanctuarium, and continue public consultation.
Implementation of a Vessel Traffic Management System in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Fairway
3.44         The implementation of a VTMS will greatly increase the traffic monitoring
capacity of the Maritime Office, and consequently contributes towards increased safety of
navigation in the fairway. This will in turn limit the risks related to ship accidents and any
accidental spillage of hazardous cargoes, such as the chemical products handled at Police in the
middle of the fairway.



-31-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Background
4.1          Improvements in port accesses, both land and maritime, are prerequisites for
modernization and improvements of port operations in the ports considered.  This has been
demonstrated by the comprehensive Port Sector Study which identified improved accesses as being of
the highest priority. This conclusion is generally valid regardless of administrative arrangements, speed
of reform, degree of privatization, etc. Therefore the present Project, which is the first Project of a
more comprehensive Bank involvement in the modernization and restructuring of Polish ports, would
remain justified even if the further phases of restructuring would not materialize. Public sector
financing is fully appropriate since it involves public roads and maritime accesses and protection, a
category for which private financing, for reasons fully supported by the Bank, are not being
contemplated.
4.2          The Project is firmly anchored in both the country's transport strategy as well as in the
CAS as outlined in Chapter III.
B. Economic Assessment and Justification
Road Components
4.3          The road components of the Project have been evaluated using accepted evaluation
methods which take into account:
(a)   reduced transit time and road congestion to access the port operating areas,
(b)   reduced vehicle operating costs; and
(c)   reduced road accidents.
The benefits will accrue to road users in general, and in particular to the users of the ports, individuals
and enterprises, thus enhancing the efficiency of the sea/land trade interface. The indirect positive
effects are considerable since the port accesses form an integral part of the urban networks. The
improvement of the port accesses thus also contributes to the overall improvement of the traffic
situation in the cities concerned. Because of the intimate interaction with the urban networks, the
alignment and overall design of the port accesses have been given and are not open to altematives. The
one exception to this is the Wolin road where altematives were considered and rejected, mainly on
environmental grounds (par 3.16).
4.4          Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Values have been calculated separately for
each of the three road access components. Sensitivity analysis testing the impact of variations in
investments and expected benefits, have been carried out. An overall economic rate of return of 18%



-32-
can be expected for the Project as a whole. The results are summarized below, and a detailed
presentation included in the Project File.
Economic Assessment Results
NPV at DR=8%               [RR
Component           (US$ Million)              (%)            IRR Sensitivity'
Gdansk North Port
Connection                    21                    15                  50%
Szczecin Access
Central Port Area             19                    18                  70%
Wolin road                     6                    25                  20%
Other Components
4.5          The main justification for both the Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection and the
Implementation of a VTMS, which is the first phase of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway
Improvement, is safety concerns (paras. 3.8 and 3.19).
4.6          The Wisla Smiala river and its outlet into the Baltic Sea are the "relief valve" to the
flood waters of the Vistula River. The maintenance has been neglected however and this poses a
real threat to the safety of surrounding areas around the Vistula River, including the old city of
Gdansk. Large areas can be inundated because the discharge of flood waters into the sea is to a
high degree physically blocked. It is generally agreed that the present condition is very dangerous
for the safety of the region in the event of flood waters in the Vistula.
4.7          The VTMS is likewise a Project based on safety concems. Whatever solution is
adopted for the physical improvements to the fairway, a VTMS is needed. The proposed VTMS
is a necessary first phase of the fairway improvement.
4.8          Overall, the Economic Rate of Return for the Project as a whole can be estimated
at about 18%.
.
Percentage increase in investment costs which would decrease IRR to about 10%.



-33-
C. Project Risks
4.9           The main risk is the availability of adequate budgetary funds for GDDP to implement
the full access roads renovation program. However, it is already foreseen, as part of the ongoing
transport Projects, that GDDP's budget be annually reviewed and agreed with the Bank. In particular
the allocation of sufficient resources to cover the domestic share of the Project costs depends on this
agreement. The experience from the ongoing Roads Project has been positive in this respect.
Moreover, the firn commitment expressed by MTME to the swift implementation of the proposed
Project, together with the preparatory budgetary works already underway in MTME's departments,
add to the likelihood that the financing will be forthcoming as foreseen.
4.10         The [RRs for the road components are closely linked to the fbrecast traffic which in its
tum is dependent, in part, on forecast port activities. Port throughput is expected to grow by about
5% annually over the next ten years. A cautious approach to road traffic forecasting has been adopted
with annual increases of no more than 3%. This should be considered as a lower bound to likely road
traffic increases. Thus the forecast traffic development is not considered to be a potential risk to the
Project's viability.
4.11         There are no particular technical risks associated with the Project. However, the
bridges construction, which often entails the risk of cost overrun due to the very nature of the works,
will require effective supervision arrangements to minimize it. In any case, the costs overruns which
would put the viability of the Project in question (para.4.4) are well above what has been observed in
the ongoing operations in Poland. On average, the cost estimates correspond well with actual costs
and the highest differences observed have been less than 20%.
4.12         It is worth underscoring that, although the proposed Project is part of a two-stage port
modernization program (see para.3.1), its expected benefits are not contingent upon the actual
implementation schedule of the second stage operation, which will mainly deal with the modernization
of the physical port facilities. This second operation, by upgrading the ports' efficiency in handling the
expected throughput, and thus contributing to a possible additional traffic growth, would most likely
increase the benefits of the proposed Project. The justification of the proposed Project relies thus on
benefit streams coming from improved accesses to the ports, which are independent of the second
operation.



-34-
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1          Before negotiations, as agreed at appraisal, the Government forwarded to the Bank
the official approval granted by the Ministry of Environment for the Wolin Road Improvement
component (para.3.40).
5.2          During loan negotiations, confirmation or agreements have been reached on the
following:
(i)   as the Ports Law was not yet promulgated, the Polish Government confirmed
its willingness to carry out its activities in the port sector in accordance with the
Polish Transport Policy Paper and its provisions; a draft statement was handed
over to the delegation and has been submitted to the Polish Authorities for
acceptance (para.2.13);
(ii)   the technical assistance and training program in the field of regulation of port
activities, management and maintenance of public assets, and divestiture of
commercial activities to the private sector has been agreed upon with the Polish
Government (paras.3.21 and 3.35);
(iii)  the financing arrangements and the availability of sufficient and timely
counterpart funds for the Project (para.3.24);
(iv)   a schedule of meetings to monitor progress in Project implementation, in
particular on the institutional side (para.3.26);
(v)   procurement arrangements (paras.3.28/3.36);
(vi)   MTME will maintain PMU (para.3.3 1);
(vii)  special account and disbursement conditions (para.3.37);
(viii)  arrangements and format of quarterly and audit reports (paras.3.27 and 3.38),
(ix)   three-year financial forecast for the Port Authorities (para.3.3 8).
5.3          Based on the above agreements the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$67
million equivalent to the Republic of Poland, through two SCL Tranches of US$ 33.5 million and
DEM 49.5 million respectively, with 17 years maturity with 5 years grace period with level repayment
of principal at the Bank's LIBOR-based floating interest rate.



POLAND
Port Access and Management Project
Transport Sector Administrative Structure
fMinistry of
L Trnspot and
Marilime
Econorny
*  Pomhh      , Geerwal Directorate S   174 Road Transport ]  General Inspectorate  8 Inspectorates.        3 Maritine            2 Shipping          2 Ship Repairing
Sate Railways        of Public Roads         Companies                 Of                 of Inland              Bureaus             Companies                Yards
(PKP)       . ,      (GDDP)                 (PKS)              Civil Aviation     Waterway Shipping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _. _.......  1 . ........          ..................                          ............. ..__...   .._____.........
Motorway                Polish                Polish            8 Research and          5 Shipping           10 Sea Falinhg
Construction             Airlines             AiprsDevelopment                            ServickingdSecg
and    aonLOT                                   (PPL)                Institutes           CCopanieses
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .r                                 TS  ...,     .... gOt. '*-..........
. . _ l _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other SOEs and
8Regional           17 Regional                                                                                                                            Budgetary
Omoes               Offioes                                                                                                                                 Units
May 1996



Annex 2
.POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Facilities
Szczecin-
Gdansk                Gdynia              Swinoujscie
Total Land Area     3,350,000 m2          2,400,000 m2           4,070,000 m2
Maximum Water
Depth               15.00 m                12.50 m               9.15 m
Berths              up to 10.2 m: 5,4 km  up to 11.4 m: 9.3 km    6 to 9 m: 5.9 km
over 10.2 m: 0.6 km   over 11.4 m: 0.5 km    over 9m: 1.5 km
Containers
*  Area             20,000 m2             500,000 m2             24,000 m2
*  Storage capacity  1,000 TEUs           9,000 TEUs             1,200 TEUs
*  Max. depth       10.50 m                10.50 m               7.80 m
Bulk
*  Area             1,017,000 m2          300,000 m2             183,200 m2
*  Silo capacity    8,000 tons             12,000 tons           46,000 tons
*  Max. depth       15.00m                 11.00 m               9.15 m
*  Dedicated        Oil coal, grain, cement,  Coal, grain, oil, ore,    Coal, grain,
facilities      phosphate, sulfur, salt   aluminium oxyde,    chemicals
fertilizers, chemicals
Passenger Terminal            1
*  Berths                   Yes                     1
*  Ferry services                                  Yes                  Yes



Annex 3
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Traffic Statistics
(million tons)
Gdansk              Gdynia           Szczaecin- Swinouj.
_  1993     1994      1993      1994       1993       1994
Petroleum Products    8.80     7.45      0.12       0.14      0.71        0.78
Coal                  8.54     9.67      2.29       2.94      6.34       9.01
Grain                 0.34     0.07       1.35      0.46      0.70       0.39
Other Bulks           2.47     2.10      0.73       0.87      5.94       6.55
Wooden Products       0.22     0.18      0.02       0.0       0.13        0.13
General Cargo         2.63     2.65      3.25       3.60      5.42       4.87
TOTALS          23.00    22.12       7.76      8.01   |  19.24      21.73



Anrex 4
Page 1 of3
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Trade and Port Traffic Forecasts
(Mllion tons)
1995                  2000                  2005
Commodit/Year               Import  Export        Import  Export        Import  Export
A. Liquid Bulk Cargoes
Crude oil                             12.8   0.0            15.3   0.0            19.3   0.0
via ports                             7.8   0.0             10.3   0.0            14.3   0.0
Oil products                          4.3   2.5             5.1   2.3             6.5   2.3
via ports                             0.3   2.1             0.4   1.9             0.5   1.9
Other liquid bulks                    0.6   1.1             0.9   1.5             1.4   2.6
via ports                             0.4   0.8             0.5   1.2             0.9   2.0
* chemicals                           0.4   0.0             0.5   0.0             0.9   0.0
* mol/veg.                            0.0   0.8             0.0   1.2             0.0   2.0
Subtotal Port Throughput              8.5   2.9             11.2   3.1            15.7   3.9
B. Dry Bulk Cargoes
Coal                                  1.0   19.5            5.0   19.5            7.0   22.0
via ports                             1.0   10.4            5.0   10.4            7.0   11.8
transit                               0.2   0.0             0.4   0.0             0.5   0.0
Iron ore                              9.5   0.4             11.1   0.5            12.2   0.6
via ports                             3.8   0.1             4.5   0.2             4.9   0.2
transit                               0.6   0.0             0.8   0.0             1.0   0.0
Phosphates                            1.5   0.0             2.0   0.0             2.3   0.0
via ports                             1.5   0.0             2.0   0.0             2.3   0.0
transit                               0.1   0.0             0.2   0.0             0.2   0.0
Grain                                 0.7   2.0             0.8   4.0             0.9   6.0
via ports                             0.7   1.6             0.8   2.9             0.9   4.3
Sulphur                               0.0   2.0             0.0   1.5             0.0   1.0
via ports                             0.0   1.3             0.0   1.0             0.0   0.7
Cement                                0.0   1.9             0.0   2.1             0.0   2.2
via ports                             0.0   0.2             0.0   0.3             0.0   0.3
Subtotal Port 7hroughput             7.9   13.6            13.7  14.8             16.8  17.3



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
1995                   2000                   2005
Commodity/Year                Import  Export         Import  Export         Import  Export
C. Breakbulk Cargoes
Forestry products                       0.3    1.5             0.3    1.6              0.3    1.8
via ports                               0.2    0.8             0.2    0.8              0.2    0.9
* timber                               0.0    0.5              0.0    0.6              0.0    0.6
* pulp/paper                           0.2    0.2              0.2    0.2              0.2    0.3
Iron and steel products                 0.3    5.0             0.3    6.0              0.4    6.5
via ports                               0.2    3.9             0.2    4.2              0.2    4.6
transit                                 0.0    0.7             0.0    0.9              0.0    1.3
Fertilizers                             0.8    1.3             1.0    1.8              1.0   2.3
via ports                               0.0    0.3             0.0    0.4              0.0    0.6
l  transit                              0.0    0.3             0.0    0.6              0.0    1.0
Other dry bulks                         0.2    0.4             0.2    0.5              0.2    0.5
via ports                               0.2    0.4             0.2    0.5              0.2    0.5
* sugar                                0.0    0.4              0.0    0.5             0.0    0.5
* other                                0.2    0.0              0.2    0.0             0.2    0.0
transit                                 0.1    0.3             0.1    0.7              0.1    1.1
Subtotal Port 7Throughpui               0.7    6.7             0.7   8.1              0.7   10.0
D. General Cargo
General Cargo                           1.7    3.6             2.2    4.7              3.1    6.6
via ports                               1.7    3.6             2.2    4.7              3.1    6.6
transit                                 0.8    0.7             1.2   0.9               1.7    1.2
Subtotal Port Throughput                2.5    4.3             3.4    5.6              4.8    7.8
of which:
* container cargo                      0.6    0.9              0.9    1.3              1.3    1.8
* ferry traffic
- passengers ('000)                       745                    1000                   1345
- trucks/wagons ('000)                    182                    244                     329
- cars ('000)                             113                     143                    193
All Commodities
Total Polish Trade                     33.9   39.8             43.1   44.1            53.5   52.0
Total Via Ports                        17.8   25.5             26.3  28.5             34.5   34.4
Total Transit                           1.8    2.0              2.7   3.1              3.5   4.6
Total Port Throughput                  19.6   27.5             29.0   31.6            38.0   39.0
Cabotage                                0.6    0.6              0.7   0.7              0.9   0.9



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
1995                 2000                 2005
New Developments           Import  Export        Import  Export       Import  Export
Oil products                        0.0   0.0            1.3   0.2             2.6   0.4
LPG                                 0.0   0.0            0.5    0.0            1.0   0.0
Stones/Rock                         0.8   0.0            0.9   0.0             1.0   0.0
Cement                              0.1    0.0           0.1    0.0            0.2   0.0
Sawn Timber                         0.1    0.0           0.1    0.0            0.1   0.0
Fertilizers                         0.1    0.0           0.2    0.0            0.3   0.0
Subtotal New
Developmenb                           1.1    0.0           3.1   0.2             5.2   0.4



Annex 5
Page 1 of 12
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of the Port Authorities
1.    The Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for the Port Authorities of
Gdansk, Gdynia and Szczecin-Swinoujscie for the years 1992, 1993, 1994 and for the first six months
of 1995 are in pages 4 through 12 of this annex. During most of this period inflation was running at
over 30% per annum, significant restructuring of the Authorities' operating sections were implemented
and changes in accounting principles were introduced in compliance with Government directives. The
value of net fixed assets in the accounts of the three authorities as of December 31, 1992 compared to
the consultants estimated value ranged from 84% in the case of Gdansk to 134% in the case of Gdynia.
Caution must therefore be used in interpreting the accounts. In spite of these limiting factors,
however, it is felt that the Authorities' accounts provide reasonable guidelines of the financial results
and status during the three and a half year period ending June 30, 1995. All three ports have been
established as joint stock companies with the National Treasury holding all shares.
Port Authority of Gdansk
2.    In 1991 the Port Authority of Gdansk established the operating sections of the port into 31
separate associated or "daughter" companies.  Appropriate workers were assigned to the new
companies and the equipment and infrastructure of the port were provided on lease for the years 1991
and 1992. In 1993 and 1994 most of the equipment was sold under deferred payments contracts with
terms ranging from three to eight years to the "daughter" companies for about old ZL 0.5 billion. The
infrastructure continues to be owned by the Authority. The share capital of the "daughter" companies
is owned by the workers but the Port Authority of Gdansk has full control over these companies
through the annual leasing contract for infrastructure.
3.    The Authority achieved operating ratios in the 70% during the three years 1992-1994 but this
ratio increased to 82% during the first six months of 1995. The decrease in profitability in 1995 was
due to (i) a fall in traffic, mainly transit, (ii) the erosion of tariff through the devaluation of the US
dollar, and (iii) an increase in operating expenses caused by inflation. The rise in the latter expenses
was moderated io some extent by a reduction in the depreciation charge in a year in which the net
value of fixed assets increased 69% through revaluation. During the three and a half year period the
rate of return on average net fixed assets declined from 10.3% in 1992 to 5.8% per annum for the first
six months of 1995. The 69% increase in value of net fixed assets was a significant factor in this
decline.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 12
4.    The level of investment during the three and a half year period was about 92% of the
depreciation charges. The Authority's internal cash generation was sufficient to finance the increase in
working capital, provide full financing of the investment program of old ZL 326 billion and provide for
a substantial increase in cash of old ZL 312 billion.
5.    The level of accounts receivable increased two fold in 1993 to old ZL 585 billion and was only
reduced by 10% by June 30, 1993. This is the result of including the balance outstanding on deferred
sales of capital equipment to "daughter" companies under accounts receivable. Gdansk does not have
a major problem to day in collecting leasing payments from associated companies. Net fixed assets
increased by 76% during the period but this increase was due to revaluation of assets to allow for
inflation. Accounts payable are substantial at ZL 503 billion but a significant part of this represent
changes in accounting practice which required the Authority to credit the Government with the value
of certain type of land for which the port did not have clear title. The Authority has no long-term debt.
The net equity value of the Governments holding in the Authority was old ZL 2,980 billion as of June
30, 1995.
6.    The Authoritys trading results for the three years 1992 - 1994 were satisfactory but a
significant decline took place during the first six months of 1995 (para.3). This decline in traffic in
1995 comes after an increase during the three previous years. The Authority's financial position is very
satisfactory and it should be in a position to finance major capital investment programs from its own
and borrowed funds, if necessary. A Government guarantee may be required due to problems in the
local capital market and country consideration for foreign borrowing. The Authority should be in a
position to pay for the Government guarantee together with the debt service obligation.
Port Authority of Gdynia
7.    The Port Authority of Gdynia is structured as a holding company which controls 100% of the
share capital of the "daughter" companies which it established to operate the port. Unlike the other
two ports, the revenue and expense of these companies are consolidated in the Authority's accounts.
The operating ratio achieved during the three and a half year period ending June 30, 1995 ranged from
69% in 1993 to 87% for the first six months of 1995. A major revaluation of assets took place in 1995
but the charge for depreciation fell to 45% compared to the 1994 charge. Without this change in
accounting the 1995 operating ratio would have been substantially higher. The depreciation charge in
1995 represents 3.4% of the revalued gross fixed assets compared to the 1995 charge of 10.6% of
gross fixed assets. The rate of return on average net fixed assets ranged from 15.5% in 1993 to 4.4%
in 1995 based on revalued fixed assets. The deterioration in Gdynia's results in 1995 were due to the
same factors that affected Gdansk, a fall in traffic, the erosion of the tariffs and increased costs resulting
from inflation.
8.    Internal cash generated from operations during the three and a half year period was sufficient to
finance the increase in working capital, capital investment of old ZL 660 billion, profit tax of old ZL



Annex 5
Page 3 of 12
430 billion and an increase in cash resources of old ZL 386 billion. Investment during the period
represented about 94% of the depreciation.
9.    Net fixed assets during the period increased by about 150%/o but this increase was due to the
revaluation of fixed assets. The Authority has no long-term debt. The Government equity in the
Authority is old ZL 4,954 billion.
10.   As in the case of Gdansk the Gdynia Port Authority's trading results were satisfactory during
the three years 1992 - 1994 but deteriorated in the first half of 1995. The Authority's financial position
as of June 30, 1995 was sound.
Port Authority of Szczecin-Swinoujscie
11.   The Port Authority of Szczecin-Swinoujscie is the owner of the port infrastructure. In 1991
there were 16 "daughter" companies which operated the port but these were transformed into 8
companies in 1994. The Authority is the owner of 45% of the shares in the "daughter" companies and
the balance of 55% is owned by the workers. Dividend received from these companies represent about
2% of revenue. As in the case of Gdansk, the major part of the Authority's revenue is derived from the
rent of leased infrastructure. The operating ratio ranged from 59% in 1993 to 85% for the first half of
1995. The rate of return on average net fixed assets ranged from 17.3% in 1993 to 3.6% for the first
six months of 1995. These results are in line with the results of the two previous Authorities and
Szczecin experienced the same fall in traffic in 1995.
12.   The Authority's internal cash generation was sufficient to finance an increase in working
capital, investment of old ZL 872 billion and profit taxes of old ZL 297 billion. The level of investment
represented 1500/a of the depreciation charges during the period. This was a higher level of investment
than the previous two Authorities and included construction of a grain elevator. All the investments
were undertaken with own financing.
13.   Net fixed assets increased by 140% during the two and a half year period ending June 30, 1995
to old ZL 3,019 billion. New investment represent about 17% of this increase and the balance was due
to revaluation. The Authority has no long-term debts and the Governments equity in the Authority
totalled old ZL 3,501 billion.



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Income Statement
Old ZL. Billion
1992                   1993                    1994              30-Jun-95
INCOME
Receipts from leased assets                                      156                     234                    292                     139
Other Income                                                     346                     344                    426                     140
Total Income                                     502                     578                     718                    279
EXPENDITURE
Wages and Salaries                                                54                      74                      90                     43
POPIWEK*                                                           10                      5                       1
Social Security                                                    2                       2                       2                      3
Materials }                                                         3                      5                       5                       5
Energy   }                                                          5                      6                       8                       7
Repair and Maintenance     }                                      22                      27                      50                      18
Dredging and Other Services }                                      16                     13                      15                      14
Other Expenditure            }                                    63                      77                     109                     44
Total Expenditure                                   175                     209                    280                     134
Operating Income before Depreciation                             327                     369                     438                     145
Depreciation                                                      124                    134                     220                     103
Total Operating Expenses                                         299                     343                     500                    237
Net Operating Income                                             203                     235                     218                      42
Profit Tax                                                        82                      93                      81
Net Profit After                                                  121                    142                     137                      42    Q
OPERATING RATIO                                                 60%                     59%                     70%                    85%       o :J
*Tax on wage payments in excess of Government guidelines



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Szczecin - Swinoujscie
Balance Sheet as of December 31
Old Z.L Billion
1992                       1993                      1994                 30-Jun-95
ASSETS
Current Assets
(39) Cash                                                                 168                       182                         94                        96
(40) Receivables                                                          157                       186                        275                       235
(41) Inventories                                                           13                         11                         8                          8
Total Current Assets                                      338                        379                       377                        339
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets                                                       2968                      3248                       3667                      8313
(44) Less cumulative depreciation                                        1699                      1808                       2008                      5294
(45) Net fixed assets                                                    1269                      1440                       1659                      3019
(46) Work in progress                                                      66                       101                        150                        163
(46a) Financial assets                                                      8                         13                        16                         18
Total Assets                                         1681                       1933                      2202                      3539
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
(48) Account payable                                                       22                         16                        33                         12
(49) Other liabilities                                                     33                        46                         11                         26
(50) Total current liabilities                                 55                        62                         44                        38
Long-term loans                                                                                                                 49
Equity
(52) Retained earnings                                                    115                        139                       134                        152     rD
(53) Reserves                                                              29                         30                        30                         33     UL-
(54) Capital                                                             1482                      1702                       1945                      3316        o :
(55) Total Liabilities                                   1681                       1933                      2202                       3539         X
Current ratio                                                             6.1                        6.1                        8.6                       8.9         en
Rate of return on average net fixed assets                              16.0%                     17.3%                      14.1%                      3.6%



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Cash Flow Statement
Old Z.L. Billion
1992                   1993                  1994              30-Jun-95
SOURCES
Operating Income before Depreciation                           337                    374                    439                     146
Investment Grants
Long-term loans received
Decrease in current assets other than cash                       12                                                                  42
Increase in current liabilities                                                         7
Increase/Decrease in work in progress
(include any other sources)                                      25                      8                      3                      2
Total Sources                                   374                    389                    442                    190
APPLICATION
Debt Service
Repayment of long-term loans investment                         147                    238                    330                    157
Taxes                                                            98                    101                     85                     13
Dividends paid to Government
Profit share paid to workers                                     13                      7                      9                     11
Increase in current assets other than cash                                              27                     86
Decrease in current liabilities                                  42                                            19                      6
(include any other applications) Difference                       4                      2                      1                      1
Total Application                                 304                    375                    530                    188
Cash surplus (deficit)                                           70                     14                    -88                      2      m
Cash at beginning of year                                        98                    168                    182                     94
Cash at end of year                                            168                    182                     94                      96
i



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdansk
Income Statements
Old Z.LI Billion
1992                   1993                   1994             30-Jun-95
INCOME
Receipts from leased assets                                     179                    126                    107                     53
Other Income                                                    390                    535                    599                    281
Total Income                                    569                    661                    706                    334
EXPENDITURE
Wages and salaries                                               19                     28                     42                     24
POPIWEK*                                                                                24                      4
Social Security                                                   8                     12                     18                     11
Materials                                                         6                     10                     12                      6
Energy                                                           28                     37                     47                     25
Repair and maintenance                                           46                     58                     51                     35
Dredging and other services                                      95                    118                    135                     76
Other expenditure                                                95                     77                     95                     55
Total Expenditure                                  297                    364                    404                    232
Operating income before depreciation                            272                    297                    302                    102
Depreciation                                                    117                    104                     88                     41
Total operating expenses                                        414                    468                    492                    273
Net operating income                                            155                    193                    214                     61
Profit tax                                                       63                     89                     88                     34
Net profit after tax                                             92                    104                    126                     27   Q
OPERATING RATIO                                                72.8                   70.8                   69.7                   81.7     o :3
*Tax on wage pavmenis in excess of Government guidelines



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdansk
Balance Sheet as of December 31
Old ZL Billion
1992                      1993                     1994                 30-Jun-95
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                                    132                      176                       364                      395
Receivables                                                             197                      585                       564                      527
Inventories                                                              20                       17                        10                        28
Total Current Assets                                     349                      778                       938                      950
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets                                                    3473                      3099                      3052                     2795
Less cumulative depreciation                                           1962                     1445                      1478                       135
Net fixed assets                                                      1511                      1654                      1574                     2660
Work in progress
Financial assets
Total Assets                                       1860                      2432                      2512                     3610
LIABILITES
Current Liabilities
Account payable                                                          34                      398                       307                       530
Other liabilities                                                         8                        12                       17                       100
Total current liabilities                                  42                      410                       324                       630
Long-term loans
Equitv
Retained earnings                                                        15                       67                        88                        90     
Reserves                                                                 17                                                  3                       190
Capital                                                                1786                     1955                      2097                      2700      o 0
Total Liabilities                                    1860                      2432                      2512                      3610         X
Current ratio                                                           8.3                       1.9                       2.9                       1.5     M.' Ue
Rate of return on average on net fixed assets                          10.3                      12.2                      13.3                      5.8



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdansk
Cash Flow Statement
Old ZL Billion
1992                   1993                  1994              30-Jun-95
SOURCES
Operating income before depreciation (No. 10)                   272                    297                    302                    102
Investment grants
Long-term loans received
Decrease in current assets other than cash                       86                                            28                      19
Increase in current liabilities                                                        368                                           306
Increase/decrease in work in progress
(include any other sources)
Total Sources                                   358                    665                    330                    427
APPLICATION
Debt service
Investment                                                       42                    142                     62                     80
Taxes                                                            76                     38                     38                      19
Dividends paid to govermuent
Profit share paid to workers                                      1                       1                     2                       1
Increase in current assets other than cash                                             385
Decrease in current liabilities                                 162                                            86
(include any other applications) difference                      19                     56                     -46                   296
Total Application                                 300                    622                    142                    396
Cash surplus (deficit)                                           58                     43                     188                    31    'o0
Cash at beginning of year                                        74                    132                    176                    364      o 0
Cash at end of year                                             132                    175                    364                    395 x



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdynia
Income Statements
Old Z.L. Billion
1992                  1993                   1994              30-Jun-95
INCOME
Receipts from leased assets                                    853                   1214                   1399                     578
Other Income                                                     21                    22                      58                    152
Total Income                                    874                   1236                   1457                    730
EXPENDITURE
Wages and salaries                                             337                    424                    555                    262
POPIWEK*                                                         60                     28                     35
Social Security
Materials }                                                      82                    109                    155                     46
Energy   }                                                                                                                            26
Repair and maintenance     }
Dredging and other services }                                    85                    115                    190                    227
Other expenditure          }
Total Expenditure                                 564                    676                    935                     561
Operating income before depreciation                            310                    560                    522                    169
Depreciation                                                    180                    176                    272                     75
Total operating expenses                                        744                    852                   1207                    636
Net operating income                                            130                    384                    248                     94
Profit tax                                                       64                    173                    113                            O
Net profit after tax                                             66                    211                    135                     94      C
OPERATING RATIO                                               85%                    69%                     83%                    87%   o0
*Tax on wage payments in excess of Govermnent guidelines



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdynia
Balance Sheet as of December 31
Old ZL Billion
1992                       1993                      1994                 30WJun-95
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                                       32                       143                        322                       386
Receivables                                                               200                       296                        311                       215
Inventories                                                                33                        41                         52                        52
Total Current Assets                                      265                        480                       685                        653
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets                                                       1920                      2237                      2564                       4387
Less cumnulative depreciation                                             180                       176                        273                        75
Net fixed assets                                                         1740                      2061                      2291                       4312
Work in progress                                                          288                       126                        161                       149
Financial assets
Total Assets                                         2293                      2667                       3137                      5114
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Account payable                                                            16                         19                        63                         15
Other liabilities                                                          80                       231                        325                        145
Total current liabilities                                    96                       250                       388                        160
Long-term loans
Equity
OQ
Retained earnings                                                          57                       214                        116                         59      m
Reserves                                                                    4                          5                        21                         21
Capital                                                                  2136                      2198                       2612                      4874       o  0
Total Liabilities                                      2293                      2667                       3137                       5114         >e
Current ratio                                                             2.8                        1.9                        1.8                       4.1      r  tn
Rate of return on average
Net fixed assets                                                           7.5                      15.5                       10.8                       4.4



POLAND
PROPOSED PORTS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Port Authority of Gdynia
Cash Flow Statement
Old ZL. Billion
1992                   1993                   1994              30-Jun-95
SOURCES
Operating income before depreciation                            310                     560                    520                     169
Investment grants
Long-term loans received
Decrease in current assets other than cash                                                                                              96
Increase in current liabilities                                                         154                    138
Increase/decrease in work in progress                          -194                     162                    -35                      13
(include any other sources)
Total Sources                                   116                    876                     623                    278
APPLICATION
Debt service
Repayment of long-term loans investment                          22                     446                    177                      15
Taxes                                                            84                     174                    132                      40
Dividends paid to government
Profit share paid to workers                                      10                     19                     24                      20
Increase in current assets other than cash                         9                    104                     26
Decrease in current liabilities                                                                                                        228
(include any other applications) difference                      50                      22                     85                      39
Total Application                                 175                     765                    444                    342      X
Cash surplus (deficit)                                           -59                    111                    179                     -64
Cash at beginning of year                                        91                      32                    143                     322      =
Cash at end of year                                              32                    143                     322                    386    ,_ X



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Programme
Terms of Reference
L. Background
1.1          From the end of the Second World War the main Polish ports have been managed by
dedicated State Companies. The ports of Szczecin and Swinoujscie have been managed as one single
company to date, whereas the ports of Gdansk and Gdynia after having been managed by one port
authority until 1954, have since then been managed separately. These port companies were acting as
executive branches of the Ministry of Transport.
1.2          The port ownership and management structure was thus strictly centralised.
Moreover, the major ports also acted as home bases for Polish Ocean Lines, the national shipping
company. All seabome transports were also centrally planned. As a consquence, Polish ports
possessed a monopolistic position with regard to Polish foreign trade. They operated mainly on behalf
of the national economy and as transit points for cargoes from Czechoslovakia and Hungary, within the
COMECON framework.
1.3         In order to separate policy setting, ownership and management functions in a market
economy, the state port enterprises were transformed between May and November 1992 into Joint
Stock Companies of the State Treasury. The State, represented by the Treasury, is the legal owner of
100% of the capital of the Port Authorities Companies, with the formal rights with regard to the use of
capital and assets devolved to the Ministry of Ownership Transformation. In a later phase, the laAk
provides for the transfer of shares of the joint stock companies into the hands of their final
shareholders, the nature of whom has to be defined in the new Ports Law to be enacted.
1.4          The future organization of the sector will therefore consist of:
MTME, in charge of overaD sector monitoring and regulation, through two specific
departments: the Department of Shipping and Seaports, directly responsible for
supervision of the Ports Authorities and assessment of their development programs,
and the Department of Sea and Inland Waterway Administration, responsible for
navigation safety through the Maritime Offices, and for legal management of the port
public assets,



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
the Port Authorities, in charge of the management of port infrastructure facilities, and
of the strategic development planning;
the private operating companies, in charge of all commercial operations in the port
areas.
H. Objectives of the Technical Assistance
2.1          The main thrust of the draft Ports Law is to provide for the new Port Authorities to act
as "landlords", in charge of managing the public infrastructure assets, while the port commercial
activities would be carried out by separate private operators, fully independent from the Port
Authorities. This concept, which is now broadly accepted among the port community, appears as the
most adequate arrangement. It must be complemented by a clear definition of the regulating role to be
played by MTME, which according to the draft law, will formally recover its monitoring function over
the sector as a whole, and will represent the State Treasury in the Port Joint Stock Companies.
2.2          The main objective of the Technical Assistance Program is to help the Polish
Administration, and in particular the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (M`IME), to work
out the practical implementation arrangements, and related detailed regulations, required once the Ports
Law will have been passed, which is expected to occur in the first half of 1996.
2.3          Additional objectives include helping the three Port Authorities of Gdansk, Gdynia, and
Szczecin-Swinoujscie, implement the provisions of the new law and of the detailed regulations referred
to above. In particular, this refers to the need to formally separate port management from commercial
operations, and to monitor market activities in order to protect public interest.
IMI. Contents of the Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance will focus on the following:
3.1    MTME
(a)   help the Directorate of Seaports and Shipping and the Directorate of Maritime
Administration and Inland Waterways to elaborate the detailed regulations
required to allow the Ports Law to be practically implemented;
(b)    help to establish the financial relationships setup between MTME and the Port
Authorities, and in particular:



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
i.    the specific conditions under which investments in port developments
or maintenance could benefit from partial or total national budget
funding, and the nature of these investments;
ui.    the definition of the financial contribution from the Port Authorities to
the national budget;
(c)    help the Directorate of Seaports and Shipping to work out market management
regulation for commercial port activities, with the aim to secure an open access
for outside private providers, while ensuring overall safety in port operations
and working standards;
(d)    help define the standard reporting requirements expected from  the Port
Authorities, in terms of financial statements, traffic and operations statistics,
development and investment policy, tariff policy,
(e)    help the Directorate of Maritime Administration and Inland Waterways to
elaborate the working relationship setup between the Maritime Offices (Urzad
Morski) and the Port Authorities, in particular:
i.    for maintenance dredging management and contracting;
ii.    for navigation aids management and connections with broader port
management information systems.
3.2    Port Authorities
(a)    help Port Authorities manage the separation of the commercial operations from
their public management responsibilities:
i.    financial advisory services to assist in preparing and implementing
divestiture of commercial activities;
ii.    manpower management assistance in dealing with possible staff
redundancies;
Hi.   financial management assistance in devising new tariff policy and tariff
schedules in line with a landlord port structure: leases, concession fees,
utility services pricing, general access and protection dues;



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
(b)   help set up market monitoring regulations for supervision of private operators,
management of the open access policy to the market of port services,
prevention of monopoly abuses, and enforcement of safety standards and
environment protection rules;
(c)   help upgrade port management systems to comply with the reporting
requirements to be enforced by MTME, in particular in the field of traffic and
operations statistics.
IV. Implementation Period
4.1          The Technical Assistance program will be implemented throughout the Project
implementation period, the MTME component having to be initiated first, as soon as the Ports Law is
enacted, to allow the Port Authc,rities to adjust their policies thereafter. Implementation is foreseen to
last at least two years following the enactment of the Ports Law.
4.2          The Technical Assistance will be complemented by a Training programn managed by the
Department of Seaports and Shipping in MIME, and including the various areas of interest listed in
Annex 7. The Training program will be implemented in a flexible way, depending on actual needs and
opportunities, all throughout the life of the Project.



Annex 7
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Training Program Framework
A.    Role and Strategy of Port Authorities
Management of the Transformation Process in Ports: Tasks and Functions of a Landlord Port
Authority
Legal Aspects of Port Management
Financial Management of Port Authorities: public assets management, public infrastructure
financing, maintenance and safety financing
Port Development and Investment Planning
Environmental Management
Marketing Strategy of Port Authorities vis a vis Operating Companies
Economic Aspects of Competition between Ports
B.    Port Organization
Public/Private Partnership Organization
Labor Policy Management
Public Assets Maintenance Organization and Management
Modem Cargo Handling Technologies
Accounting and Computerization of Financial Management Tasks
Container Terminals and Intermodalism: Planning and Management of Handling and
Transfer Facilities
C.    Communication:    Advanced English Skills
About I 00 port staff would benefit from the training program.



Annex 8
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECI
Project Costs Estimates
(1995 US$ Million)
Component                 Foreign            Local             Total
Road Accesses
Access to Szczecin Central Port
Area                                  34.1             34.1               68.2
Wolin Road Renovation                 3.6               3.5               7.1
Gdansk North Port Connection          12.5             12.5               25.0
Maritime Accesses
VTMS in Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Fairway                               4.0               0.0               4.0
Coastal Protection
Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection        5.5               5.5               11.0
Technical Assistance/Training         1.2               0.0               1.2
Total Project Base Cost              60.9              55.6              116.5
Technical Contingencies               6.1               5.6               11.7
Price Contingencies                   9.1               8.3               17.4
Tota1 Project Cost                    76.1             69.5              145.6



Annex 9
Page 1 of3
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Project Management Functions
Component            Stakeholders        Implementation         Coordination
Gdansk North Port    Port Authority of     Regional Directorate    GDDP Warsaw
Connection           Gdansk                of Public Roads
Voidvoidship of      Gdansk
Gdansk
City of Gdansk
Access to Szczecin   Port Authority of     Regional Directorate    GDDP Warsaw
Central Port Area    Szczecin-Swinoujscie   of Public Roads
Voidvoidship of      Szczecin
Wolin Road           Szczecin
Renovation           City of Szczecin
VTMS Szczecin-       Port Authority of     Urzad Morski         MTME Warsaw
Swinoujscie Fairway    Szczecin-Swinoujscie   Szczecin
Urzad Morski
Szczecin
Wisla Smiala Outlet    City of Gdansk      Urzad Morski Gdynia   MTME Warsaw
Protection           Urzad Morski Gdynia



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Project Implementation Principles
1.    Road Components: they will be managed by GDDP, in Warsaw and in the regional offices,
following the organization which is implementing successfully the roads and transport Projects already
underway.
2.    Maritime Accesses Components: they will be implemented by the regional Urzad Morski
offices, under the umbrella of the Department of Sea and Inland Waterway Administration in MTME
in Warsaw.
3.    Overall Project Coordination: the Director of the Department of Shipping and Seaports in
MTME in Warsaw is the Project Coordinator. The Projects Monitoring Unit set up in MTME under
the First Transport Project will provide the two ministerial departments involved, as well as the Port
Authorities, with any assistance they may require in carying out Project implementation tasks. The
technical assistance and training program  will be managed and implemented by the Project
Coordinator.
Project Procurement Plan
4.    A detailed Procurement Plan for the different Project components is presented in
Annex 12.
Project Supervision
6.    Permanent Project supervision responsibilities will be vested with the Project Coordinator.
Quarterly progress reports will be submitted to the Bank, including in particular:
(a)   status of procurement operations for each component;
(b)   updated Project procurement plan;
(c)    updated Project implementation timetable;
(d)   status of loan commitments and disbursements;
(e)    updated disbursement schedule;
(f)    utilization of the Special Accounts;
(g)   development indicators, including in particular:
*  monthly port traffic statistics, including container and ro-ro/ferry traffic
* average dwelling time in port of time-sensitive cargoes
* breakdown of inland transport modes used before and after transit through ports.
7.    The Project Accounts and the audited accounts of the Port Authorities will be submitted yearly
to the Bank.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
8.    Bank supervision rnissions will take place at least twice a year, or according to Project
requirements, and will include a Transport Economist, a Port Specialist, and at least once a year a
Financial Analyst. They will follow the proposed supervision plan below:
No of   No of Field
Timing    Staff Weeks          Staffing         Trips      Weeks
FY1997         12        Task Manager: 8 sw       3           4
Economist : 2 sw
Fin. Analyst: 2 sw
FY1998          12       Task Manager: 8 sw       3           5
Fin. Analyst: I sw
Proc. Spec. I sw
Env. Expert 2 sw
FYI999          12       Task Manager: 8 sw       3           5
Fin. Analyst: I sw
Proc. Spec.: I sw
Env. Expert: 2 sw
FY2000          9        Task Manager: 8 sw       3           4
Fin. Analyst: I sw
FY2001          9        Task Manager: 8 sw       2           3
Fin. Analyst: I sw
FY2002          9        Task Manager: 8 sw       2           3
ICR                     Fin. Analyst: I sw
Total         63                                16          24



Annex 10
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Gdansk North Port
Connection
Access to Szczecin
Central Port Area
Wolin Road
Renovation
VTMS Szczecin-
Swinoujscie Fairway
Wisla Smiala Outlet
Protection
Technical Assistance
Training
--    - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -



Annex 11
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year            Quarter Ending                     US$ Million Equivalent
97                   September 1996                           1.00
December 1996                            2.00
March 1997                               3.00
June 1997                                4.00
98                   September 1997                           6.70
December 1997                            9.40
March 1998                               13.20
June 1998                                 17.00
99                   September 1998                           21.20
December 1998                            25.45
March 1999                               28.20
June 1999                                31.00
2000                    September 1999                            34.90
December 1999                            38.85
March 2000                               42.90
June 2000                                47.00
01                   September2000                            51.00
December 2000                            54.95
March 2001                               57.50
June 2001                                60.00
02                   September 2001                           61.50
December 2001                            63.00
March 2002                               65.00
June 2002                                67.00
The Loan Closing Date will be June 30, 2002.
Source: Mission Estimate, October 1995.
Based on ECA Transportation Disbursement Profile dated August 1993.



Annex 12
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Plan
Issuance
Total Cost   Procurement   Prequal.        of       Submission    Signing
Component   US$ million        Method       Notic    Invitation      of Bids        of       Completion
to Bid                  Contract
Civil Works       120.7
Access to
Szczecin
Central Port
Area
66.6          IC13         06/96       09/96        11/96        02/97       06/2000
Wolin Road
Rcnovation
8.9           ICB         06/97       09/97        11/97        02/98        10/2000
Cidansk North
Port
Connection
31.4          ICR          06/96       03/97        05/97        08/97       06/2000
Wisla Smiala
Ouitlet
Protection
13.8          ICB          02/96      04/96        06/96        08/96        12/1997
Equipment
and Materials
VTMS in
Szczecin-
Swinoujscie        5.0           ICB                     02/96        04/96        06/96        12/1997
Fairvay
TA/Erg             1.5            SL                     05/96         07/96        09/96       12/2000
TOTAL           127.2



IRED 27435
1X-   Its'               IT-                      . 7c-      _ _  _ !        22-                       7                 -  |
RUSSIAN
fri c  Sea                              o0uo~~~~~~~.I foGd-k,    FEDERATION                                             -POLAND
t ~ g      S a jt  c  S e a         ,-------  1S dns                                         F   EATO                            L I T H U A N I A/POTA CS AN
.2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I LTUNAPORT ACCESS AND
TO KOItd                                     ~                                         ~ 78-----r K  -' MANAGEMENT PROJECT
O     PROJECT PORTS
-t  t  Z  " z 0   A G z   L7TN, ~ SUWALKI 1  ,,, .,      _      EXPRESSWAYS
Z t $ + ,/KOSZALIN                                                   p                                T 4 5 ' i                     \_ a/ \ s > .Ne S<<  ,  J 4 V Ino.  OTHER MAIN ROADS
To Torek    I   35  ZECIN9      V)                                                                                                                                                 J \ 45 ~ /Tk  4  3  -  |  ttz  2  5  b  S  /t  J  /  _  | RAILROADS
8YDGOSZCZ               'r., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                          AIRPORTS
T,                     r                                               "   J             %                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   MAJOR PORTJ
Ot5-~ ~ ir= 0 5    a  t      * W s oS R        3   IO INC   loLo    -E  8hA>wTQ  O  D  E  lwNATIONAL CAPITAL
(~~~~51    CIEC          _?STROIEKA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@                                               PROVINCE IWOJRWODZTWOI CAPITALS
>-       WIEIGQRZ  W                                                    r
> |5r: WIELKOP<O5KI  < s < g t       -\                                                                                                                             , c  3Ss, > <o G ) ! _ MAJOR URMAN AREAS
z   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              W~     RIVERS
CANALS
KO                                             7 C.                                                            -. --    PROVINCE IWOJEWODZTWO) ROUNDARIES
;C4- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-52'         5'1EELNAL
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
,>ODL44SKA(   of                  5 ~ ~~~ ~ 50       ICC       TOO       200 KILOMETERS
0  r  A<  AM(-25  50    75     lOS MILES
7,pX^O-< < >>E1_ Xa l ~St R"zi5A BLI/4                                                      `
R E P U B L I C   tv o 8   X  o   n        ,        ,       <        ,    .               U K R A I N E        i                ,      POIAND  x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I 
,i.   O   t  .-   OWY    C   i  KRSmOt    -                  -                'v          '-HEL5LOA-            i        r -A-
NORWAY                          0NI.
-   SWEDEN          U    '-\       RUSSIAN
P-h.                                                                                                                                        F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EDERATION
LATVIA
DENMARKA     -    -j
T. P,.h. - It                                                                                                                                Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ILTUAI 
INA   W            ~~~~RZESZ/JW  ~PRZEMYiSL/                      so-                               ,.
TO  ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     rt"~~~ 4O~TA    BW-                                              0'V                                            EEIARLJS o 
*.>  4A    ECALA  A   :-  \>   >N4IIoR?   ~   ~ ~ ~~UKAINEi                                                POLAND    *E 
R EUSTRIA P U                               l L I C                                                                                                       G i  2  N   S OP   r  *  OERMANY
a.,  V  NOWYPS' C  -  KROSPTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  .                  -                     - ~~~~~~UKRAINE
r  I;  ~~~~~~~~~   A~~~~-<   -.,-s~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~CZECHI
RE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
REPj...o.y     'o  REP    {
-J                                                                          -4~~~~~~~~~-AUSTRIA HUAR*    MNA
HUNGARY~~~~SPR 9
AUSTIRIA    '.                                                                                                                                                                                         EW






---K  aV7 1.R-                                                  g                                                                                       POLAND
NW          Nt  ,-'I k'9(                                                / /l                        PORT ACCESS AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
'--;    --  '    \    - /       PORT OF SZCZECIN
C-.~~~~~~~~~~~-
C-'      / ~~~~~~~~o~~~\ ~PROJECT COMPONENTS
r'~~~~~~k  C-                     -~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ROADS
VI-- r- ,RAILROADS
X.-   ,.,-- - -  - - - ~ -- ......  =     *~gZ                  )                  ///  GENERAL CARGO
J                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UQUID BULK AREA
DRY BULK AREA
0       500      1000     1500
METERS
Li          PARNIC                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The bo-dorie, coo-donioosad anyother-f o-ooro
BRI                                                              f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hoin on -5 np do notp Cm. On oportofThe Wsdd Rook
Grop,-oy udraet on the IegoI stosof- any torni', Or -n
ondoro-ot or ccptooc ofsuch hoodori-
c y \ 0 - 1 1 - . t '2'>er ~~ - - $ ~ \ ~ ' * UKRAINE    w
m  /-EjI-al-i J    Rc Sea        LITHUNIA         -
A                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ns
%Swhizeina                          BELARUS
GERMANYWASW 
I.   POLAND
N.~~~~~(
C                                                                              K            'I'uv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d      CZECH       '.UKRAINE                           Fo
z                                                                                                            --Z ~~~~~~f  I ~REPUBLIC                                             ~N
-c  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     Sr                                    *      J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLOVX('N?
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0.~~~~~RPBI~.-                                                       ,






POLAND
'KY                                              jPORT ACCESS AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PORT OF SWINOUJSCIE
A                             I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
--  .  L l= RAILROADS
I r i        ,                                                         ///GENERAL CARGO
--                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIQUID BULK AREA
DRY BULK AREA
FERRY/PASSENGER AREA
:,".      /               1t           /                                               0         500       1000      1500
METERS
_ 55g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J ~~~~~~Th t boooedo, or colors denononnettons 0 and uy other o!tormattoot
e   ,   t z     \         z              <     2                                          11        boUr v:gmn,e*sC"bsunda'69             l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sow n hi opdont mpyonsh or ~ heWol Bo
SWE'D-J
too  )   ~Baltic Sea      LITHUANIA  .
RtIAN.
-    OGdo.5k
-_ . -tSwiflOUIsCie  \. BELARUS
o 6 '    .  ,.GERMANY  .          WARSAW     C       -
IPOLAND
.   ,   S  \  t  CZECH  t.     *  UKRAINE    w
z                                                                                                 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE-PUBLIC   '
z0                             *                                                                                                                '.l -REUS  LICO .  . -  .           u
________________________   N






POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND
~> | | I r  KWIATKOWSKI ROAD                \MANAGEMENT PROJECT
S w&2 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~AND FLY-OVER\
PORT OF GDYNIA
ROADS
-~--RAILROADS
GENERAL CARGO
CONTAINER AREA
LIQUID BULK AREA
DRY BULK AREA
>%ts 7%PORT MAINTENANCE AREA
FERRY/PASSENGER AREA
S1WEDr JIli 
MA       Baltic SaLITHUANIA 
isie                            BELARUS
/                                      \fi                t    |          _    _    l                Q             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WARSAW 2 
GERMANY                                 j PN
I '' O~~~~ 500                        1000      1500 17.' c
______________                                                                                              A t.ebo.ndaries cokCn denommaeonsondenyotherwnrmel  /     CZECH    !   UKRAINE  _
Z  showm.ron0ls mop do notNmply, on the prot of iThe World Bonik\  + I I   (                    \    REPUBLIC
m                             Gt~~~~~~~Ornp, any judgment on the Ingot IhatU5oninny Ierrltocy. or any  ..  I\*                                              .1SLOVAK                           N
_                                        endorsmnt or acepenceof soul,hbondrnr,es                         \- '                                                     i  /. ~   REPUBLIC.  -.j       - 
a' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EULC.-A






SWEDEN- -
5     } J5XLITHUANIA  ,
\ i / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                    _  ' ' ---. 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- r\\                                                    -a - . 
ls-m,omce                   BELARUS
WARSAW
GERMANY           POAN
\ t   r  $     >         <                       _  _  _                                         ,   {Nat o X ' s~~~~~~-'   *
POIAND~~~~~~~~~~~~OLN
UKRAINE
* CZECH 
I~REPUBLIC   f*    .-
/SLO)VAk
REPUBLIC1.-.
WISLA SMIALA
OUTLET PROTECTION
BREAKWATER
Paos Rai Lake
(Nafoa a Par f
POLAND
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PORT OF GDANSK
0 500   1000  1500  2000
PROJECT COMPONqENTS:                   GENERAL CARGO                     ROADS                      1        I  I  I    I
MARTWA WISLA BRIDGE                    LIOUID BULK AREA           --.-RAILROADS                               METERS
W. WSLA SMIALA OUTLET PROTECTION           DRY BULK AREA
BRIEAKWATER                                                                                        Th. bo-do,-,s ~o-1., d--h-,oton  -,d -ny Oth , o
C                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL AREA  ~h    h, -op don.r o,~Py. h ,  d M. Wodd 8-o&
'0                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT MAINTENANCE AREA                -'o~,~IocpIo -f-loh b-odoo-,
'0






I BRD27440
d'.eno.ioi-ns -nd oyn
)                                                                                                      -    on   firs     o . dorios
,1,,*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~py ., ,,~ ---E  Treio
(~~~~~~~~~B li                                     Se s )50/ 00 .5 -o oON 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~obzg [.i   .;g- --  NA~  1>, 
,~1o      g     Tre WorlGryFiced -ooOSGroup
-~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ttj oAr  an .terrt/    S itwry
- ----------                   or an  Z   C   Zy -ndorsI-N-
I            9 \\  O   Trzebiet                       t          /                                                ?Trzebiat6w
WOLIN
NATIONAL             -j
X                 g  !a       BS. ST                   W   Golei6wST.
Gryficea        E2-          KOSZALIN
\ A RWAY                  a
\%                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Swidwin
NowogardS.
Q    Trze.biex     7
OBS. ST.                     GalenisS
POUCE-   -,                 G  en i6w
Pasewalk                          Po, ice                                                                 Wegorzyno 
O    5   10  15  20   2'i         ,ecz,                                                    <             ,, 1       /
KILOMETERS                                                       '
POLAND                                                        D
Boli Se            ITHUANIA 
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PORT OF SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE                                                            de ,
IMPROVEMENT OF THE ROAD AND MARITIME ACCESSES                                           ARA           ie. BELARUS
MAJOR HIGHWAYS                           MAi nczecsn
MAIN ROADS                                                   WARSAW (-  -
-        PROPOSED ROAD COMPONENT                                                      GERMANY               POLAND
PROPOSED LOCATION OF RADAR             O     R
STATIONS FOR THE VESSEL TRAFFIC         RAILROADS                                                   O
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
0    SELECTED TOWNS
- - - -  CHANNEL AXLE  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ N~.UKRAINE
- - - -   CHANNEL AXLE             <i) PROVINCE IWOJEWODZTWO) CAPITAL                  2       CZECH
-. ' '   ~PROVINCE IWOJEWDZTWO) BOUNDARIES             REPUBLIC
4  _   * _  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  ,/       -     REPUBLIC. -.L_
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15149 POL
Type: SAR



