Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBERS 4080-0 POL
                                                             4080-1 POL
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Port Access and Management Project)
                                 between
                           REPUBLIC OF POLAND
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 9, 1996
                                                  LOAN NUMBERS 4080-0 POL
                                                               4080-1 POL
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 9, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the fore-
going, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Page  2
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "DEM Loan Tranche" means the amount in Deutsche Marks provided
for in Section 2.01 of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" mean the lawful currency of the
Federal Republic of Germany, but if such currency shall be replaced with
the "Euro" then "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" shall be replaced by "Euro"
for the purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect as of the date of
such replacement;
     (c)  "Loan Tranche" means any of the USD Loan Tranche or the DEM
Loan Tranche;
     (d)  "PMU" means the Project Monitoring Unit which has been
established in the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Maritime
Economy;
     (e)  "Special Account A" means any of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and "Dollar Special Account A" and
"Deutsche Mark Special Account A" mean the Special Accounts A to be
maintained in Dollars and DEM, respectively;
     (f)  "Special Account B" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Special Accounts" means the Special Accounts A and Special
Account B;
     (h)  "USD Loan Tranche" means the amount in dollars provided for
in Section 2.01 of this Agreement; and
     (i)  "Vessel Traffic Management System" means a radar and real-time
communication link with processing software to service and monitor
maritime traffic situations.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, the
following amounts:
     (a)  an amount equal to thirty-three million five hundred thousand
Dollars ($33,500,000); and
     (b)  an amount equal to forty-nine million five hundred thousand
Deutsche Marks (DEM 49,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, C and D of the
Project, open and maintain in the currency of each Loan Tranche (i.e.,
in Dollars and Deutsche Marks) a special deposit account, each in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special
Accounts A shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts B, E and F of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the provi-
Page  3
sions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date Shall be June 30, 2002 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of:
          (i)  the USD Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to USD
               LIBOR Base Rate, plus USD LIBOR Total Spread; and
         (ii)  the DEM Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to DEM
               LIBOR Base Rate plus DEM LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to but not includ-
               ing the first Interest Payment Date and thereafter the
               period from and including any Interest Payment Date to
               but not including the next Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "USD LIBOR Base Rate" means for each Interest Period the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "USD LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof  made by it that
               include the USD Loan Tranche, as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
          (v)  "DEM LIBOR Base Rate" means for each Interest Period the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Deutsche Marks for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (vi)  "DEM LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the DEM Loan Tranche; as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  4
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of USD LIBOR Base Rate, USD
LIBOR Total Spread, DEM LIBOR Base Rate and DEM LIBOR Total Spread for
each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less
than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and
     (b)  The Borrower shall maintain the PMU in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall, by October 1, 1996,
appoint a Project Coordinator with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to coordinate the acti-
vities of the Borrower under the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a continuous basis, in
accordance with indicators to be specified in the terms of reference
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) above, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, including, but without
limitation, the following indicators: (a) monthly port traffic
statistics; (b) average dwelling time in port of time-sensitive cargoes;
and (c) breakdown of modes of transport used on land before and after
transit through ports.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
Page  6
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
          ul. Chalubinskiego 4/6
          00-928 Warsaw
          Republic of Poland
                                       Telex:
                                       816651
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
                INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI)
                Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and
year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF POLAND
               By /s/ Boguslaw Liberadzki
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Paul Knotter
                                                Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of the        Amount of the
                     Loan Allocated      Loan Allocated           % of
                     (Expressed in       (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollars)          Deutsche Mark)      to be Financed
(1)  Works                                                   50%
     (a) for Parts A,    24,100,000        35,559,000
         C and D of
         the Project
     (b) for Part B       3,100,000         4,578,000
         of the Project
Page  7
(2)  Goods                2,250,000         3,320,000       100% of foreign
                                                            expenditures,
                                                            100% of local
                                                            expenditures
                                                            (ex-factory
                                                            cost) and
                                                            expenditures
                                                            for other items
                                                            procured locally
(3)  Consultants'           650,000           959,000       100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated          3,400,000         5,084,000
                          _________         _________
          TOTAL          33,500,000        49,500,000
                         ==========        ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of
Category (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after October 27, 1995.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i) for good
and works under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent; and (ii)
for services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent for
the employment of consulting firms and under contracts costing less
than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of individual consultants,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to improve physical access to the
ports of Gdansk, Gdynia and Szczecin-Swinoujscie and the management
capacity of the port authorities.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Access to the Gdansk North Port
(1) Construction of a new bridge of about 140m over the Martwa Wisla
river (the Martwa Wisla Bridge); (2) construction of an access road
to the Martwa Wisla Bridge; and (3) construction of a road connection
between the Martwa Wisla Bridge and the E-77 road via an embankment.
Part B:   Wisla Smiala Outlet Protection
(1) Reconstruction of the east and west breakwaters of the Wisla Smiala
river and related shore protection; (2) dredging works in the mouth of
the Wisla Smiala river to a depth of around 4m; and (3) supply and
installation of navigation aids in the Wisla Smiala river outlet.
Page  8
Part C:   Road Access to Szczecin Central Port Area
     Construction of: (1) a new bridge of about 560m over the Regalica
river, with related access roads and connections to the existing road
system; and (2) a fly-over between Gdanska Street in Szczecin and the
central port area of Szczecin, over the Parnica river, and connection
of the fly-over to the existing road system.
Part D:   Improvement of the Road Connection between Swinoujscie and
          Szczecin through Wolin
(1) Construction of a by-pass road round the village of Dargobadz; and
(2) improvement of the section of road of about 6.3 km running through
the Wolin National Park.
Part E:   First Phase Modernization of the Szczecin - Swinoujscie Fairway
     Supply and installation of the Vessel Traffic Management System.
Part F:   Technical Assistance and Training
     Provision of technical assistance and training for regulation of
port activities and port management.
                             *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                        Payment of Principal    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due       (Expressed in Dollars)*  (Expressed in DEMs)**
November 15, 2001            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2002                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2002            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2003                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2003            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2004                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2004            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2005                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2005            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2006                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2006            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2007                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2007            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2008                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2008            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2009                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2009            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2010                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2010            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2011                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2011            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2012                 1,395,000               2,065,000
November 15, 2012            1,395,000               2,065,000
May 15, 2013                 1,415,000               2,005,000
                            __________              __________
                            33,500,000              49,500,000
______________________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
    repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General
    Conditions.
**  The figures in this column represent the amount in DEMs to be
    repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
Page  9
    Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for works for the construction of roads and bridges and
marine works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Dispute Review Board
     Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in
paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to (i) each contract for works and (ii) each contract
for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Accounts A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) (a) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be with-
drawn from the Loan Account and deposited in Special Accounts A pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to $2,250,000 for the
Dollar Special Account A (to be withdrawn from USD Loan Tranche) and
DEM 3,340,000 for the DEM Special Account A (to be withdrawn from the
DEM Loan Tranche), provided, however, that unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 for the Dollar Special Account A and DEM
1,500,000 for the DEM Special Account A until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $7,500,000 and DEM 11,000,000, respectively.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a
Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account
A shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into such Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of such Special Account A, the Borrower
Page  11
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into such
               respective Special Account A at such intervals as the
               Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into such respective Special Account A such amount
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
               have been shown by said documents and other evidence
               to have been paid out of the respective Special
               Account A for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equiva-
lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special
Account A:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account A;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan Tranche
allocated to the eligible Category minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account A as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account A: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into such
Special Account A (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
Page  12
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account A
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account A will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account A.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 6
                           Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of  works, goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be with-
drawn from the Loan Account and deposited in Special Account B pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to $1,500,000 (an amount
of $750,000 to be withdrawn from the USD Loan Tranche and an amount of
$750,000 equivalent from the DEM Loan Tranche), provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall
be limited to an amount equivalent to $600,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $4,500,000.
2.   Payments out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account B
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account (from the
USD Loan Tranche or the DEM Loan Tranche, as appropriate) and deposit
into Special Account B such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of Special Account B, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               Special Account B at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Page  13
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into Special Account B such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of Special Account B for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account B,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into Special
Account B:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for Special Account B;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of each Loan Tranche
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account B as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into
Special Account B (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into Special Account B shall be
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
Page  14
standing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account B.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
