Documantof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11531
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2249-BR)
JANUARY 11, 1993
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit             Cruzeiro (CrS)
US$1.00               =     179.5 (1982)
=     577.0 (1983)
=   1,848.0 (1984)
-   6,200.0 (1985)
Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00               '       13.66 (1986)
39.23 (1987)
262.01 (1988)
US$1.00                   New Cruzado Dollar (Ncz$)
=        2.83 (1989)
US$1.00                   Cruzeiro Dollar (Cr$)
-       68.55 (1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)       0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)                   10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
PRINCIPLE ACRONYMS USED
BNH        Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEF        Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
COSAN      Superintendency of the Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
CTE        Loan Agreement between BNH and a State
CTN        Loan Agreement between BNH and a State Water Company
CPP        Comunidades de Pequeno Porte (Small Communities Program, under
PLANASA)
CTN        Loan Agreement between BNH and State Water Company
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
EVG        Global Feasibility Study
FAE        State Water and Sewerage Fund
FGTS       Employee Indemnity Fund (BNH)
FINEST     BNH's financing to states for sanitation works
IFR        Internal Financial Rate of Return
MAS        Ministerio da Acao Social (Ministry for Social Welfare)
MHU        Ministerio da Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente (Ministry of
Housing, Urban Development and Environment)
NTL        National Tariff Law
ORTN       National Treasury Bond
OT         Technical Advisor
PAHO       Pan American Health Organization
PCR        Project Completion Report
PLANASA    Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 11, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Brazil
Water Supply and Sewerage Proiect (Loan 2249-BR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Brazil - Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2249-BR)" prepared by the
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The largest Bank loan (US$ 302.3 million) made to the Brazilian water
sector supported the project covering all 26 states of Brazil.  Its massive
targets of improving water supply and sewerage services to 22 and 10 million
people respectively were achieved. An important, innovative component on "Study
of low cost sanitation solutions in congested areas of Rio de Janeiro" was
dropped, due to lack of government support. Institutional development targets
were only partially achieved and, most important, efforts to improve the sector's
financial viability failed. All past Bank projects covenanted that the Brazilian
tariff laws, requiring adequate water tariffs, be met. In the continued economic
and financial crises of Brazil, these covenants have never been complied with and
the poor financial position of many of the State Water Companies is endangering
the sustainability of investments.   For this reason the project is rated as
unsatisfactory and its sustainability as uncertain.
The Project Completion Report's discussion of the project's achievements
and shortcomings is frank and specific and its conclusions are appropriate. The
project, albeit much larger, is similar to other, past, multistate projects and
is unlikely to offer new lessons from more detailed review.  Accordingly, no
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
LOAN 2249-BR
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
Preface ........................................................
Evaluation Summary .............................................
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .
Background .1
Project Objectives and Concept.                                                2
Project Design and Organization.                                               3
Project Implementation.                                                        4
Project Results.                                                               6
Project Sustainability.                                                        7
Bank Performance.                                                              8
Borrower Performance.                                                          9
Project Relationship .10
Consulting Services .10
Project Documentation and Data .10
PART II.    BORROWER REVIEW OF THE PROJECT .......................                          11
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..............................                           13
Related Bank Loans ...................................                        13
Project Timetable ....................................                        14
Loan Disbursements ...................................                        15
Project Implementation ...............................                        16
Project Costs and Financing ..........................                        21
Project Results ......................................                        23
Status of Covenants ..................................                        24
Use of Bank Resources ................................                        25
Annex 1         ..............................       ........................               27
Annex 2         ..............................       ........................               28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2249-BR
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2249-BR in the amount of
US$302.3 was approved on March 22, 1983. The loan was closed on August 16,
1989 and fully disbursed before the contractual closing of September 30, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a Bank mission in November
1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, the Loan Assumption Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2249-BR
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
i.     The Bank loan of US$302.3 million helped the Borrower to finance the
first water supply and sewerage project addressing sector-wide reform as a
part of a National Water and Sanitation Program (PLANASA) for the period 1983-
1987. The main objective of the project was to improve the environmental and
health conditions in rapidly growing urban areas through the provision of
water and sewerage services. The project aimed to support economic growth
with a wide distribution of social benefits to all the 26 states of the
country. Under this concept, the Borrower, as financial agency, and the State
Water Companies (SWCs), as executing agencies, would share more
responsibilities in jointly planning and managing than they had done in the
past: the borrower, with the task to select sound operations and to assist
SWCs in their lending operations, and the SWCs, to prepare and execute
feasible operations. In addition, through institutional development and
training, the project would promote a more efficient use of existing
infrastructure and human resources. In particular, the Project intended to
assist the Borrower in meeting PLANASA's targets to serve 22 million
additional people with potable water and 10 million with sewerage services by
1987 (paras. 3).
ImDlementation Experience
ii.    The sector project was executed during a period of decline in the
national economy matched by chronic high inflation. Despite severe cutbacks
in funding for public investments, physical works built during the five-year
program represented a commendable effort to meet the initial targets. By
1987, the initial completion date, the project helped to meet 78% of the
forecast incremental water service target and 69% of the incremental sewerage
service target (para. 5.02). The project was completed in August 1989, twenty
months behind schedule, by which time it had fully met, and even slightly
surpassed, the original 1987 service targets both in water and sewerage. The
loan was fully disbursed before its closing date.
iii.    The execution of this project brought to the surface a number of
experiences worthy of note: (a) while waterworks manifested a high demand and
were evenly distributed among beneficiary cities, sewerage services in many
cities fell very short of the targeted outcome; (b) the component to study
low-cost sanitation solutions in congested areas of Rio de Janeiro was
canceled for lack of official support, foregoing an opportunity to look into
innovative sanitation schemes; (c) many of the SWCs that launched an
institutional development program improved their operational efficiency in
varying degrees, but when financing was depleted, the program lost its
impetus, with extensive decline in operating indicators, particularly in



- iii -
reducing water losses; (d) using yearly state investment programs as a
baseline to select investments, the project displayed a great degree of
flexibility even under adverse conditions; and (e) the sector was very
sensitive to a drastic change in sector organization when PLANASA was
transferred from the National Housing Bank (BNH) to the Federal Savings Bank
(CEF). It was also affected by the partial enforcement of service tariff
regulations and by official measures to control inflation.
iv.    The institutional development component lacked consistency in
promoting better operational practices and was carried out with uneven
results. As a result, many SWCs institutionalized improved procedures, e.g.,
in metering and billing, as lasting operational practices; many others
partially carried out their programs; and a few (especially in the north and
northeast regions) did not engage in the program (para. 5.04).
Results
v.      The project substantially helped the Brazilian government to meet its
objectives of the five-year National Water and Sanitation Program (paras. 6).
The project thus contributed to the provision of water services to 24 million
additional people and sewerage services to 10 million new users. With this
incremental input, by 1989, the SWCs as a whole reported service levels of 89%
of the total urban population for water and 39% for sewerage services. Though
this was a commendable record in hard times, and nearly attained the
challenging national urban service goal for the decade of 90% for water, it
fell short of the 65% for sewerage. In addition, although the project met
numerical targets, distribution throughout the country was skewed, with only
three states (Federal District, Rio de Janeiro, and Sao Paulo) numerically
accounting for most of the gains in sewerage. Four major hurdles mitigated
against fully attaining the targeted service levels during the course of the
project: (a) the cutback in public investments; (b) the continued high growth
in urbanization from 65% in 1980 to 76% in 1989; (c) the extraordinary growth
in urban households; and (d) to a certain measure, mediocre support by BNH/CEF
(para. 6.01).
vi.    While the project successfully met its water service targets, the SWCs
did not reach the levels of financial viability foreseen for them (para.
6.03). Despite persistent requests by SWCs for federal approval of quarterly
tariff increases to counteract inflation, real SWC revenue increases were
curbed by official measures to freeze tariffs that were therefore inadequate
to keep up with the pace of inflation. Furthermore, the SWCs did not properly
implement other operational efficiency measures, namely, to reduce unaccounted
for water and personnel costs. Nor did they improve management of assets
(para. 6.05). Regarding its environmental impact, the project promoted better
levels of health in beneficiary cities. A health risk still persists in those
cities which now have adequate water but inadequate sanitary drains or sewage
treatment. The latter risk is an ample justification to go ahead with
sewerage programs and other methods of excreta disposal (para. 6.09).
Sustainability
vii.    The project helped strengthen the sector by promoting higher service
levels and encouraging increased productivity. Improved SWC performance,
however, was unevenly distributed nationally. With a fine performance of SWCs



- iv -
in several regions, but especially in the south and southeast, the sector has
matured enough to ensure that forthcoming projects are sustainable. Continued
progress, however, was beset by four important hurdles that emerged during the
course of this project: (a) the leading role of PLANASA was considerably
weakened after the dissolution of BNH; (b) public funds to the sector were
more constrained than in the past; (c) the financial viability of SWCs
decreased due to high levels of debt combined with inadequate tariffs; and (d)
a low level of productivity still persists in many SWCs.
viii.   The Federal Government recently took sound steps to address these
issues (para. 7.02). First, it turned over to the states the responsibility
of setting service tariffs thus easing the process for financial recovery.
Second, it created the National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation
(SNS) under the Ministry of Social Action (MAS) to formulate and lead the
national water and sanitation policy. On their part and in various degrees,
the SWCs have grown in competence to be able to shoulder more responsibility
for water and sanitation in their own jurisdictions.
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.     Important findings have emerged from the experiences of this project
(paras. 8-9). First, sector lending is an appropriate means to execute water
and sewerage works rapidly and deliver sectoral services. Second, the
Project's efforts to improve the productivity at the state's operational level
fell short of expectations, and warranted a higher degree of technical
assistance and supervision than initially expected. It, thus, became apparent
that sector projects demand a higher degree of supervision than projects
directed towards an individual city or state.
x.      On the whole, the balance of these experiences has resulted in
positive steps to regain sector strength. Brazil has taken steps to draft a
new sector strategy incorporating this Project's experiences. The main
lessons learnt relate to the key issues that a new sectoral strategy should
address: (a) support for the provision of water and sanitation to the poor;
(b) revision of the present sector's financial policy to upgrade present
regulations and allow SWCs to achieve self-sufficiency and fund part of their
investment programs; (c) delineation of sector's investment programs with
regard to the availability of funds and investment quality; and (d)
fortification of a program of selected and dedicated supervision and technical
assistance to promote productivity at all levels.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2249-BR
PART I. BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name              : Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project
Loan Number       :2249-BR
RVP Unit          :Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
Country           :Brazil
Sector            :Water Supply and Sewerage
2. Backaround
2.01   During the decade of the 1970s, the water supply sector in Brazil moved
ahead to expand water services with a unique operational strategy. This strategy
began in 1968 when the Government created the National Housing Bank (BNH) as a
central financing agency to develop the housing and water sectors. In 1971, BNH
launched the National Water and Sanitation Program (PLANASA) to improve and
expand water and sewerage service levels in rapidly growing urban areas.  The
program was designed to develop the operational capacity of the State Water
Companies (SWCs) as executing agencies, and to organize a self-sustained system
to operate and expand services.  To support PLANASA, the Federal government
created the Sanitation Finance System (SFS) to allocate funds to finance water
supply and sewerage subprojects.'  The SFS uses Revolving Water and Sewerage
Funds (FAE) within each State to sustain the program. The FAE finances the SWCs
through repayable loans and, in special cases, grants. The program's priority
focused on rapidly growing cities with poor environmental sanitation and high
concentrations of poor inhabitants, but it also included cities above 5,000
inhabitants with similar conditions.
2.02    During the booming decade of the 1970s, the SFS increased investments to
the sector averaging US$800 million per year.   By 1982, as a result of a
successful program, water and sewerage service levels grew dramatically to 69%
and 30%, respectively, from the 1970 levels of 50% and 20%. (These percentages
refer to the total urban population with house connections. )2
2.03    With the experience gained in the 1970s, Brazil set up challenging objec-
tives for the 1980s. The target was to expand water and sanitation services in
urban centers to reach levels of 90% in water and 65% in sewerage by 1990. This
effort would embrace all 26 States with sound sector policies to gradually attain
1 The SFS allocates funds to PLANASA from three sources: (a) the Federal Goverrmient Employee's Pension Fund
(FGTS); (b) internal and external credits; and (c) budgetary resources from state goverrnents.
2 Drazil has 9,266 "cities", among them, municipal and district seats which are determined by political
administration rather than population size. For rural areas, Brazil did not set a strategy for the 1980s. In
December, 1990, the Goverrment announced the Programs Nacional de Saneamento Rural - PRORURAL.



- 2 -
self-sufficiency in the SWCs' operations.  To steer this policy, in 1978, the
Government issued a National Tariff Law (NTL) setting up cost recovery criteria
for the investments in the sector.  Under the Law, SWCs charge customers for
water and sewerage services through a progressive  tariff system that would
promote a rational use of water and help provide services to the poor.
2.04    With a central organization and policies in place, the water sector as
a whole3 was standing on solid ground to implement the 1990 goals.  The Bank,
being involved in the sector for over a decade, having approved, in 1971, the
first of nine  loans amounting to US$700 millon, endorsed  the Government's
efforts.  In 1982, when BNH formulated a five-year sector program, the Bank
judged that it was time to move ahead into sector-wide lending to provide
services on a wider scale. The program was highlighted with strong measures to
foster institution building and cost recovery.  The Bank then identified this
Project as the first water sector project to support Brazil's sector program.
(Similar efforts directed at creating a national policy for rural areas were the
focus of Loan 2532-BR, Technical Assistance and Pilot Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project, approved in May, 1985.4)
2.05    During its course, the program encountered a stagnant national economy
and high inflation that caused a slowdown in the levels of public investment.
Also, in 1986, the Caixa Economica Federal (CEF)' swiftly assumed PLANASA when
a Decree Law abolished BNH (paras. 4.05 and 4.06). CEF's assumption of the loan
created delays, disruption of disbursements and an element of uncertainty in
implementing the project.
3. Prolect Obiectives and Concept
3.01    Proiect Obiectives:  The main project objectives were: (a) to improve
environmental and health conditions in urban areas through the extension of water
and sewerage services, mostly in low-income areas, and the provision of sewage
treatment where water pollution problems were more pressing; (b) to support
economic growth with a wide distribution of benefits by providing adequate
infrastructure and emphasizing the use of low-cost technology; (c) to promote the
efficient utilization of investment resources within the sector through improving
the capacity of BNH and the SWCs to plan, appraise and execute projects and
through the achievement of sector financial viability; and (d) to help optimize
the use of existing infrastructure and human resources through institutional
development  and  training.   The Project was  intended  to  support PLANASA's
objectives and goals, which aimed to serve about 22 million people with potable
water and 10 million with sewerage by 1987.
3.02    Proiect Concept:  The Project was conceived as a part of the PLANASA
1983-1987 program, representing about 14% of its funding. The Program consisted
3Presently, the major sector institutions are: the Ministry of Social Action (HAS) and its National Secretariat
for Water Sulppy and Sanitation (SNS), both created in March, 1990; the Federal Savings Bank (Caixa Economica
Federal, CEF), successor of BNH; the National Health Foundation (Fundacao Nacional de Saude, NHF), successor
of the Public Health Services Foundation (Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica, FSESP); the State Water Companies
(SWCs); and the Autonomous MunicipaL Services.
4The Project Completion Report, PCR, for Loan 2532-BR was submitted to OED in October 21, 1991.
5 CEF Is a parastatal institution that performs many commerciaL banking activities and manages severaL sociaL
f unds.



- 3 -
of: (a) a group of water supply and sewerage subprojects meeting agreed selection
criteria (para. 4.01); (b) engineering and consulting services as required for
design and construction supervision; (c) institutional development programs for
the SWCs, including consulting services and equipment (para. 4.04); and (d)
consulting services to study low-cost sanitation solutions for the metropolitan
area of Rio de Janeiro.
4. Proiect Desian and Organization
4.01     The Project was designed on a national scale with BNH and the SWCs
sharing more responsibilities for jointly planning and managing than in previous
Bank projects. Each of the 26 SWCs were eligible to participate in the Project
under predefined selection criteria which included the following requirements:
(a) a global feasibility study for each SWC; (b) an institutional development
program for each SWC; and (c) a progressive plan to comply with the NTL during
the period 1983-85.   BNH was to assume a more direct role in reviewing and
selecting eligible subprojects, supervise operations and follow-up on the
application of the NTL. The NTL provided that SWCs should generate revenues to
cover operating expenses, revalued depreciation, and a remuneration on net fixed
operating assets at least enough to cover debt service.
4.02    The financing of the program was devised so that both BNH and the States
would budget equal amounts of funds to carry out eligible sub-projects.   The
degree of subsidy was limited to State grants under special lines of credit
mainly addressed to promote better sanitary conditions in small communities. As
in the past, PLANASA provided full financing of sub-projects as a means to
develop the financial capacity of the SWCs. Since this policy depended on loans
and grants, the SWCs did not have incentives even to partially fund their invest-
ment programs.
4.03    Project scope and timing were considered appropriate since most of the
wcsks had no complex engineering requirements, and the country already possessed
a capable  engineering  and construction  industry.    The  project  scope was
equivalent to a multiple of the previous traditional projects in the sector. The
major project risk was seen to be the many new SWCs affiliated with the program,
since these were administratively, operationally and financially very weak and
without previous experience with Bank loans. This risk was scaled down through
a strong institutional development program as a key project component.
4.04    The institutional development program was well designed by a special
institutional unit within the Borrower's sanitation department. Consultants and
Bank staff- were to assist this unit in shaping the program. The program would
assist SWCs to identify their own institutional weaknesses and prepare their own
development programs.   It would address common identified constraints in the
areas of: (a) global feasibility studies; (b) program budget; (c) commercial
operations; (d) consumer files; (e) billing and collection; (f) unaccounted for
water  (UFW);6  (g)  management  of  fixed  assets;  and  (h)  human  resources
administration and training. The program was planned to start in some selected
SWCs so that the experiences gained would be gradually transferred to expand its
operating benefits to all participating states.
6 UPW is the percentage of the votume of water produced, minus the voLume soLd with respect to the votume
produced.



- 4 -
4.05    A major unexpected event during the project was the sudden dissolution
of BNH in 1986. A decree of November 21, 1986, abolished BNH and shifted all
its assets and liabilities to the CEF.  On November 26, 1986, the Government
requested the Bank to amend all ongoing Loan Agreements for the transfer of BNH's
responsibilities to CEF. After a process of evaluation of CEF's capabilities,
the Bank found that the transfer had no technical or institutional risks as
project execution was quite advanced and the overall sector strategy and
objectives  remained intact.   The major risk was the uncertainty over the
inflation outlook and its effects on the SWCB's financial performance.   On
November 9, 1987, the Government and the Bank signed an Assumption Agreement to
this Loan.
4.06    CEF, however, proved to be weak at administrating and supervising the
Project. In fact, it took over a year for CEF legally to assume BNH's functions
and even longer for CEF to reorganize to manage PLANASA.   The organizational
arrangements of the newly created CEF's sanitation department lingered until 1989
when the department was moved to Brasilia. In the meantime, the Borrower slowed
down in planning and supervision, and overlooked the institutional and financial
viability  issues.   This situation,  plus the  economic measures to control
inflation severely weakened PLANASA and the operations of many SWCs.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01 Loan Effectiveness  and Proiect Start-uo:   Project events up to Loan
signature developed as scheduled.  Loan effectiveness was met easily with the
signing of the first contracts between BNH and three SWCs.  Project execution
moved rapidly during the first year, outstripping disbursement targets and using
the retroactive financing facility awarded by the Project.  The SWCs of Acre,
Amapa and Roraima were excluded early from the Project for non-compliance with
the eligibility criteria (para. 4.01).
5.02    Implementation Schedule:   The Project helped to build physical works
during the five-year program to meet 1987 forecasted targets. The Project was
completed in 1989, 20 months behind schedule.   In terms of whole incremental
targets, by 1987, the initial completion date, water subprojects had met 78% of
the target and sewerage subprojects 76%.  And by 1989, the actual completion
date, water subprojects had met 108% of the 1987 target and sewerage subprojects
116%. While 15 of the 23 SWCs met their full water service targets and 8 met
more than 50%, only 10 SWCs fully met their sewerage targets and 13 fell truly
short (Part III 4A and 4B).   In fact, large sewerage expansions in just two
cities, the metropolitan areas of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais accounted for about
50% of the overall target.
5.03    In general, SWCs provided priority to the water component because of
higher demand for water and more political appeal than sewerage. Moreover, the
higher initial cost of sewerage works, primarily for treatment, makes them less
liable to cost recovery than waterworks.   Furthermore, the states failed to
allocate the matching funds for these subprojects.   At the end, with PLANASA
funds depleted, many SWCs found themselves with unmet sewerage targets and
waiting for new funds to carry on remaining works.
5.04    Institutional Develovment:  The institutional development component was
carried out with uneven results.  The Program lacked consistency in promoting
better operational practices (paras 6.02-6.06). About 17 SWCs that participated



- 5 -
in the program upgraded their field operations and established new commercial
practices in users census, metering, and computerized operations for meter
reading, billing and collecting.   Consequently,  some implanted a permanent
operational program of improved procedures, while some others only partially
carried them out.   The program worked out well during the first half of the
project, declining thereafter due in part to shortage of funds and a lapse in
disbursements which accompanied the CEF reorganization to take over and run the
sector program. For the weaker SWCs, there was not a timely follow-up to keep
this program as a permanent operational activity nor to expand the program to the
remaining states. As a result, many SWCs, especially in the north and northeast
regions completed their waterworks with physical gains in system capacity, but
without institutional reforms to ensure a managerial capability to properly run
their expanded systems.
5.05    Procurement:  Procurement developed without problems.  Responsibility to
review the SWCs' procurement practices lay with the Borrower. Since the start
of the project, BNH exhorted the states to adjust their procurement practices as
regulated by Federal law to comply with Bank's guidelines.   Supervision of
procurement was randomly practiced through statement of expenses audits.
5.06    Proiect Cost:  The final project cost was US$986 million or about US$100
million more than the estimated total cost of US$863 million (See Part III, Table
SA).  A large part of the increase in project cost was due to price increases
higher than originally estimated (local contingencies, especially, proved to be
higher than expected because of exorbitant inflation), and the 20 months delay
in project completion. In general, the aggregate of cost increases was caused
by two main factors. First, the number of sub-projects increased, in response
to requests by the Brazilian Government. Thus, the amount financed by the Bank
was higher, but so too was the number of projects.   (This also increased the
construction and implementation period.)   Second, the Brazilian practice of
financing only a discrete "slice" of a project in a given period may itself have
increased costs.  This partial financing approach, for example, does not take
full advantage of economies of scale and also causes considerable duplication in
planning and managing projects.   On the other hand, the sector's investment
program ended up with a total cost equivalent to US$3,023 million or roughly half
the original estimate of about US$6,100 million.  The cost of the whole sector
program was reduced because of restriction in public funds as part of official
measures to control inflation.   The project ended up as a 33% slice of the
sector's investment program instead of 14% as planned.
5.07    Disbursements:  The loan proceeds were fully disbursed before the closing
date of September 30, 1989. The Borrower properly managed the lending program
with actual disbursements levels higher than expected (See Part III, Table 3A).
Though the Loan Agreement was ineffectual from the date of the dissolution of BNH
up to the effectiveness of the Assumption Agreement, the Bank agreed to honor
disbursements and expenditures made after February 21, 1987, when CEF was
appraised.
5.08    Loan Allocation:  The categories of the Loan proceeds were revised on one
occasion at the end of the project (See Part III, Table SB).   An amendment
deleted Part B of the project, the sanitation study in densely populated low-
income areas of Rio de Janeiro, and the allocated fund of US$1 million was
transferred to finance technical assistance to CEF and pending works.   This
component was canceled for lack of Federal support (para. 9.02).



-6-
6. Proiect Results
6.01    Proiect Obiectives:  The project substantially helped the government to
reach the 1987 PLANASA objectives in both water and sewerage services.   The
project thus contributed to the provision of water services to 24 million
additional people and sewerage services to 10 million new users. Even with this
incremental input, by 1989, the sector as a whole reported service levels of 89%
of the total urban population for water and 39% for sewerage services. Though
this was a commendable record in hard times, and nearly attained the challenging
national urban service goal for the decade of 90% for water, it fell short of the
65%  for sewerage.    That  is,  although  the project met  numerical  targets,
distribution throughout the country was skewed, with only a few states
numerically accounting for most of the gains in sewerage (See Annexes 1 and 2).
Four major hurdles mitigated against fully attaining the national targeted
service levels during the course of the project: (a) the cutback in public
investments; (b) the continued high growth in urbanization from 65% in 1980 to
76% in 1989; (c) the extraordinary growth in urban households, reported as up to
20% higher than urban growth, and (d) to a certain measure, mediocre support by
BNH/CEF. (See Part III, Tables 4A and 4B.)
6.02    Performance of SWCs:  The SWCs did not meet the objective of financial
viability.   Despite efforts to comply with the NTL and measures taken to
counteract inflation, their financial position stayed below the agreed targets.
The core measure consisted in the application of quarterly tariff increases to
cope with the expected inflation as forecast by the government, but the
Government itself did not permit its implementation. Other measures to reduce
operational costs and improve the management of assets were only partially
implemented. As a result, all SWCs actually experienced a decline in financial
performance. In 1989, when the project ended, the financial status among SWCs
varied (see Part III, Tables 4D and 4E): (a) eleven of the 23, including those
in the south and southeast region, maintained a modest financial position with
revenues covering operating expenses and depreciation of assets; (b) most in the
north and northeast region were not even covering operating costs and were in
default in their debt service obligations; (c) only seven were in strict
compliance with the NTL; and (d) only ten improved their percentage of personnel
cost over operating cost with respect to the 1982 levels.
6.03    The financial position of SWCs began to deteriorate in 1984 for three
important reasons: (a) the Government did not properly enforce the NTL; (b)
official inflation estimates were underestimated; and (c) requests for tariff
increases had late approvals.   In 1986, a lengthy tariff freeze that was in
effect through early 1987 aggravated the situation. Then, to have access to Loan
funds, the Borrower and the States, agreed on a cost recovery plan to meet the
provisions of the NTL by 1989. By this time, the SWCs began gradually to recover
after the Government turned over to the states the responsibility to set tariffs.
6.04    Other measures to improve efficiency were only partially implemented.
With respect to the 1982 baseline levels, ten SWCs cut back on personnel costs
(See Part III, Table 4D).  The periodic valuation of operating assets was not
properly implemented as a permanent procedure causing overestimated net earnings.
Likewise, the management of current assets still requires a lot of attention in
many SWCs. In particular, the accounts receivable display frequent periods of
up to three months lapse between billing and actual payment, an important delay
in a highly inflationary environment.



- 7 -
6.05    In summary, it was evident that, despite reforms to improve performance,
the sector badly needed to enforce the current NTL and to review existing
policies and regulations that inhibit the financial health of the SWCs.
6.06    Institutional Development:   The project fell short in achieving its
efficiency objectives (see Part III, Table 4D). Of particular importance is the
failure to reduce unaccounted-for water (UFW), attributable mainly to two
factors: (a) depletion of loan funds which were supporting remedial measures, and
(b) inconsistent technical assistance by BNH/CEF which tended to favor the more
competent companies.   While many SWCs set up a permanent program on improved
operational and commercial procedures, many others continued operating with
outdated practices. The results of the unaccounted-for water (UFW) reduction
program were as follows: (a) nine SWCs maintained adequate operating practices
at a UFW level of about 30%; (b) 14 others reported over 30%, of which 8 account
for more than 40% of the water volume produced; and (c) eight reduced their
levels of UFW with respect to the 1982 levels. In retrospect, the Appraisal's
forecast to decrease UFW down to about 20-25% was too optimistic.   Many SWCs
after having improved their production capacity, still operate with high levels
of UFW, and need more intensive assistance to improve operational efficiency.
Moreover, the Borrower did not make an interim evaluation of this program to
apply the experiences gained during the initial phase of the project. This might
explain why losses increased in proportion to decreases in loan funds, or why CEF
neglected those companies most in need of assistance. As a lesson, the sector
urgently needs to give more priority to institutional development--both
operational and managerial, through promotion of new programs aiming to decrease
UFW as well as through a more intensive supervision of existing programs. It may
be advisable in future lending to link, as conditionality or selection criteria,
SWCs' performance to loan disbursements to assure operational efficiency and
investment quality.
6.07    Environmental Effects:  The environmental impact has been positive since
inhabitants in the beneficiary communities now have higher coverage levels of
both water supply and sewage collection services. A health risk, however, still
persists in most cities that have increased water service levels without
concomitant increases  in sewage drains or treatment.   The latter is ample
justification to go ahead with the construction of additional sewerage systems.
Overall, soil contamination has been reduced to lower levels than before the
Project.   The program also helped to decrease the incidence of water-related
diseases. Most telling, infant mortality in Brazil dropped from 77 per thousand
lived births in 1980 to 61 in 1989. However, the present situation in densely
populated areas still requires public education to increase awareness of the
health hazards, and community participation to improve family hygiene in poor
neighborhoods.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.01    In spite of problems encountered, the project strengthened the SWCs with
higher service levels and modest improvements in operations with respect to the
situation in 1982 (See Part III, Tables 4A to 4E). The water sector is stronger
and better able to make future projects sustainable.   In the final analysis,
however, many problems have accumulated that threaten the sustainability of the
sector as a whole, such as: (a) the leading role of PLANASA has substantially
declined as a social developing program since the dissolution of BNH; (b) the
general decline in financial capacity, the high level of debt accrued in many



- 8 -
SWCs, and the capability to meet debt service obligations; (c) the limited
availability of investment funds; and (d) with the exception of some regions, low
productivity in systems operations.
7.02    To address these issues, the Government has already taken positive
actions as part of a decentralization policy. Among them: (a) the creation in
1990 of the SNS as a central agency to formulate and implement a national water
and sanitation policy; and (b) the reassignment to the States of responsibility
for setting water and sewerage tariffs. This is the beginning a new strategy to
regain sector leadership through the reformulation of sector policies7 along the
following lines: (a) support upcoming sector programs to address the provision
of water and sanitation to the poor; (b) reshape the present financial policies
so that SWCs achieve self-sufficiency with participation in their own
investments; (c) smooth coordination and supervision activities at central level
with state and municipal initiatives; and (d) promote productivity in the opera-
tions of the SWCs and municipalities.   This policy aims to sustain sector
development within the limitations of the 1990B.
8. Bank Performance
8.01    At Project Appraisal the Bank was confident that the risk to enforce the
institutional program and financial conditions was slight. This was not the case
since the Borrower and the SWCs encountered difficulties in fully implementing
the program and found many hurdles to apply tariff increases (para 6.02-6.03).
In fact, the program's main success was during the first three years of the
project when many SWCs gained efficiency in their operations. The program later
declined when funds became scarce, BNH was abolished, and PLANASA was absorbed
by CEF. At the time, the Bank devoted substantial efforts to prevent PLANASA
from being dismantled or weakened in the transfer. In retrospect, however, these
efforts to guarantee PLANASA's smooth transition from BNH to CEF perhaps were not
enough, despite one year of negotiations and the assurances received from the
Government. It is now evident, in retrospect as well, that CEF was not prepared
to assume the tough responsibility to take over PLANASA (para. 9.03).
8.02    The Bank has learned key lessons from its first sector project in Brazil,
such as: (a) the importance of implementing a strategy to promote institutional
improvements with the same priority granted to physical works; (b) the need to
review the traditional financial policies of heavy dependency on public funds and
grants with a view to replacing them with a more sound policy that promotes SWCs
to generate revenues to cover operating cost including depreciation, debt
service, and a portion of their investment program; (c) the importance of
evaluating the benefits of the operational improvement programs in terms of water
savings, cost reduction, increases in revenues, and postponement of investments;
(d) the need to be able to respond to drastic institutional changes that may
bring about adverse effects in addressing poverty and environmental sanitation
issues; and (e) the need for more timely supervision in nation-wide sector
projects, with a willingness on the part of the Bank to increase supervision
during periods of crisis.
7 The upcomning Water Sector Modernization Project would assist SNS to strengthen the sector's institutional
capabilities.



8.03    The combination of these lessons might point to the need for a change in
approach to supervision in large scale or sector projects which, by definition,
contain numerous sub-projects or require on-lending to multiple clients at the
state and municipal level.   In this project, the Bank was to work with and
supervise BNH/CEF, who, in turn, were to execute the project and provide
technical assistance to the states.   Clearly, this did not happen.   Neither
BNH/CEF nor the Bank adequately dealt with the vast amount of work required to
review multiple project loans. The Bank might therefore need to develop criteria
by which to extend its supervision beyond the immediate borrower without
spreading its resources too thinly, and deal directly with certain sub-borrowers.
8.04    Similarly, in sector projects, it is also clear that there is a tendency
to overstate those improvements specifically   due to the Project.   It may
therefore also be useful to develop indicators for Bank involvement in order to
evaluate more accurately the efficacy, efficiency, and the value-added of such
projects.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01    The Borrower performed well in financing the project.  In spite of the
shortage in matching funds, both BNH and CEF did a good job in allocating the
funds to the project.   BNH/CEF performance in overall project management,
however, was not impressive. The states were frequently short and late in both
replenishing and disbursing funds, sometimes threatening the proper completion
of major works. This problem was partially alleviated when the Borrower provided
a line of credit to activate the FAEs. The Bank contributed about US$70 million
to fund this line of credit. In spite of this support, the states fell short in
allocating project funds contributing about 25% instead of the agreed 50% of the
project cost.
9.02    The  Borrower,  however,  was  unable to persuade  the Government,  as
guarantor, to: (a) properly enforce the NTL to comply with the financial covenant
of the Loan Agreement; and (b) implement the study of low cost sanitation
solutions for the low income areas of Rio de Janeiro.  As a consequence, many
SWCs did not strengthen their financial and operational capacity, and CEF and
FAEs ended up with many subloans in default.   The canceled sanitation study
precluded an opportunity to look into innovative sanitation schemes for
concentrated low-income urban sectors.
9.03    It appeared that CEF was not prepared for the sudden merger of PLANASA
into its normal operations nor to assume its capacity as Borrower.  Thus, the
organizational  change demanded a prolonged period of  legal adjustment  and
reorganization to cope with the sector's program.  Perhaps for these reasons, CEF
overlooked the institutional issues that resulted in many SWCs not achieving the
cost recovery goals nor improving their operational performance.
9.04    The main lessons learned from the Borrower's actions in the Project are
as follows. The Bank needs to devise means to help the Borrower to: (a) properly
enforce the NTL; (b) revise, in accord with SNS, the present financial policies
to enable SWCs to generate enough revenues to comply with the NTL and finance
part of their investment cost; (c) keep alive the institutional development
program to make the SWCs more efficient in their operations; (d) reinforce the
supervision program to assure that SWCs improve operational efficiency and comply
with their loan obligations; and (e) recognize the importance of increasing the



- 10 -
sectors'B access to new funds loans, within present  limitations and on a
commercial basis, to help the sector recover the shortfall in water and
sanitation services.
10. Project Relationship
10.01   The Bank's relationships with the Government, the former BNH and CEF were
positive, assuring the successes of this project. This continued relationship
was essential in preserving PLANASA during the transition period following the
dissolution of BNH. Despite CEF's organizational arrangements, the project was
fortunate to be able to preserve continuity in project management.
11. Consulting Services
11.01   The performance of consultants was satisfactory.  Consultants from the
Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)s assisted the Borrower's sanitation
department in the areas of information, sector evaluation, project evaluation,
project management, and operational and financial administration.   They also
assisted many SWCs in the same areas with good results. During the latter part
of the project they assisted CEF in the organization and procedures of the newly
created sanitation department.   At this stage, the consultants' input lacked
effectiveness and switched to an operational role when the sanitation department
declined substantially in staff.
11.02   Engineering consultants were retained for the design of water supply and
sewerage systems.  The program to improve operational procedures in SWCs was
performed  by  local  consultants.    This  program  embraced  the  design  and
implementation of improved operational procedures in production and distribution
practices  and upgrades  in commercial  procedures,  including users  census,
metering, meter reading, billing, and collecting. These consultants provided on-
the-job training to operational staff of many SWCs with good results.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01   Loan Agreement 2249-BR was quite clear and functional with a high degree
of flexibility to revise project objectives.   The Assumption Agreement was
expeditiously issued through active negotiation.   The Staff Appraisal Report
provided a useful framework for periodic planning and supervision work. Because
supervision work and periodic reporting were weak, information on project
implementation was dispersed and irregular. The basic information for this PCR
was prepared by the SWCs under CEF guidelines. While the lending information
appears adequate, sector information and project data had not been processed and
consolidated at central level as a normal practice.   At state level, the
information system is generally fair with frequent faults in the handling of
monitoring indicators. Thus, many SWCs still need central assistance to improve
their information systems.  Many others still need to improve the quality of
global feasibility studies that lately weaken and reestablish regular auditing
of their financial statements.
8PAHO consultants assisted the Borrower from 1981 up to 1989 under a cooperative contract between PAHO and the
Goverrrnent partiaLLy financed with loan funds.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2249-BR
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FORM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following letter summarizes the Borrower's views on the design and
implementation of the project.
June 17, 1991
Mr. Carlos E. Velez
LAlIN
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
OF DIRSA No. 125/91
Dear Mr. Velez:
1.      Sector Loan Agreement No. 2249-BR was a landmark in the relationship
between BNH (later CEF) and the World Bank, being the first Sector Loan for Water
Supply and Sanitation ever made to Brazil.
2.      Because it war directed toward a particular sector and covered so much
of the country, this operation was executed in a shorter time than any other
water and sanitation-related loan granted to Brazil, even though it was for the
largest amount (US$300 million) and was implemented at a time when the
Government's macroeconomic policy was characterized by restrictive measures that
made execution difficult between 1983 and 1988 and culminated in November 1986
with the dissolution of BNH and its absorption by CEF.
3.      The Water Supply and Sewerage Project financed by this Loan not only
helped speed up the PLANASA during that period by providing substantial
resources, but also made it possible to achieve almost every one of the proposed
objectives.
4.      In addition, the contribution of resources for financing the Technical
Assistance Agreement (with the Pan-American Health Organization) produced
significant advances in the execution of programs financed by BNH and
subsequently, CEF.
5.      Had  it  not  been  for  the  obstacles  hindering  execution,  we would
undoubtedly have completed the Agreement within a maximum period of three years
from the date of signature, thus confirming that this type of Sector Loan is a
highly successful formula.
6.      The documentation furnished to the World Bank for inclusion in the
Project Completion Report was prepared by the Project Companies participating in
the program cofinanced by IBRD under Loan Agreement No. 2249-BR.
7.      The information provided by the Project Companies was organized in
accordance with DESAN guidelines, in accordance with the instructions presented
by the IBRD mission that visited us for this purpose.



- 12 -
8.      Special mention should be made of the support received from the IBRD by
BNH and CEF, during the supervision missions. These missions were decisive in
enabling us to achieve this excellent performance.
9.      Although  relevant  experience  had  already  been  gained  during  the
preparation of the Project Completion Report on Loan No. 1970-BR (Multistate),
problems arose in the preparation of the charts relating to each of the Project
Companies, this being a Sector Loan covering the entire country and requiring the
analysis of the resulting data for inclusion in the Report.  This resulted in
unfortunate delays, although we trust that the time lost can be made up during
the preparation of the Reports on Loan Agreements currently being executed.
Sincerely,
/s/ Carlos Chambers Ramos
Director, DIRSA
CAIXA ECON6MICA FEDERAL



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2249-BR
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
Year of      Amount
Loan No.         Purpose                 ADvroval   USSmillion  Status
757-BR   Sao Paulo water distri-          1971         22.0      100% completed
bution and storage                                      PPAR 04/04/80
758-BR   Sao Paulo sewage                 1971         12.0      100% completed
collection and disposal                                 PPAR 04/04/80
1009-BR   Minas Gerais water supply        1974         36.0      100% completed
and sewerage                                            PPAR 06/30/83
1309-BR   Minas Gerais water supply        1976         40.0      100% completed
and sewerage                                            PCR 04/22/85
1525-BR   Sewage collection and            1978         52.5      80% completed
disposal in Sao Paulo                                   US$57.5 million
canceled 01/85
PCR 11/18/87
1656-BR   Water supply and sewerage        1979         100.0     100% completed
in the states of Bahia,                                with 2-year
Ceara, and Pernambuco                                   delay
PCR 02/27/87
1823-BR   Water supply and sewerage        1980         130.0     100% completed
in the states of Parana,                               with 2-year
Santa Catarina, and Rio                                 delay
Grande do Sul                                           PPAR 01/14/88
1850-BR   Third Minas Gerais water         1980         139.0     100% completed
supply and sewerage                                     PCR 02/23/90
1970-BR   Multistate water supply and    1981           180.0     100% completed
sewerage project in Amazonas,                           PCR 07/27/90
Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul,
Para, Paraiba, and Federal
District
Comments:
(a) Total lending prior to this Loan: USS 712 million
(b)  The Bank assisted PLANASA to launch these projects with institutional
development components and the adoption of sector policies.
(c) The above projects were satisfactory completed, the only exception was the
project under Loan 1525-BR which was halted due to inadequate funding from the
State and political problems.



- 14-
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                           Planned            Revised           Actual
Identification                 02/82                                03/82
Preparation                    03-12/82                              12/82
Preappraisal                   12/82                                 12/82
Appraisal                      01/83                                 02/28/83
Loan Negotiations              02/83                                 01/83
Board Approval                 03/83                                 03/22/83
Loan Signature                 03/83                                 03/30/83
Loan Effectiveness             06/83                                 07/27/83
Loan Clohing                   09/30/89                              09/30/89
Loan Completion                12/31/87                              08/16/89
Comments:
(a) Loan negotiations that took place at BNH headquarters in Rio de Janeiro
helped to keep the timetable as planned.
(b) Loan completion was 20 months behind schedule but the loan was disbursed
before the closing date.



- 15 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
Bank FY            1984   1885      1986     1987     1988     1989     1990
Appraisal Estimate        13.7   65.3   128.3    209.3   281.3    302.3
Actual
Disbursements             47.5   93.6   175.4   211.3   301.3    301.3    302.3
Actual as % of
Estimate                346.0  143.0    137.0    101.0   107.0    99.7    100.0
Date of Final
Disbursement                                                      August 16, 1989
Comments:
(a) During FY 1989, disbursements were halted due to the negotiation of an
amendment to delete Part B of the project, a sanitation study for Rio de Janeiro
valued at US$1 million. The proceeds were applied to assist CEF's Sanitation
Department with technical assistance and for pending works.
(b) During FY 1987 and 1988, the Loan was inactive due to negotiations to amend
the Loan Agreement when CEF assumed PLANASA after BNH was abolished.



- 16 -
4.    Proiect Implementation
4A. SWC Prolect Targets for Water
Incremental Population Served
(Thousand Inhabitant)
Target         Real              Real
State                                      1987        1987    %        1989    %
Amazonas                                    382         270    71        481   125
Para                                        630         350    56        947   150
Rondonia                                    366         229    63        274    75
North                              1.378         849    62      1.702   123
Alagoas                                     353         170    48         302    86
Bahia                                     1,685       1,463    70      1,823   108
Ceara                                     1,758         741    42        906    52
Maranhao                                    646         280    43         514    80
Paraiba                                     396         294    74        567   143
Pernambuco                                1,020       1,342   131      1,619   159
Piaui                                       340         475   139        617   182
Rio Grande do Norte                         410         220    54         382    93
Sergipe                                     470         330    70        420    89
Northeast                          7.078      5,315    75       7.150   101
Distrito Federal                            160         451   280        500   312
Goias                                     1,158         896    77      1,227   105
Mato Grosso                                 490         498   101        645   132
Mato Grosso do Sul                          360         162    45        248    69
Center West                        2.168      2.007    93       2.620   120
Espiritu Santo                              443         350    79        575   130
Minas Gerais                              2,200       2,392   108      2,697   123
Rio de Janeiro                            1,957         822    42      1,363    70
Sao Paulo                                 3,445      2,327    67       3,468   101
Southeast                          8.045      5,891    73       8.103   101
Parana                                    1,850       1,488    80      2,128   115
Rio Grande do Sul                           835         916   109      1,214   145
Santa Catarina                              806         728    90      1,026   127
South                              3.491      3.132    90       4,368   125
Total                             22,160     17.194    78    23,940   108
Comments:
(a)  The SWCs of Acre, Amapa and Roraima in the North Region were excluded early
from the project for not having chances to comply with the eligibility criteria.
(b) All regions performed well in meeting water targets. 15 SWCs complied and
overcame their water targets, while the others 8 did well completing more than
50% of the expected targets.



- 17 -
4B. SWC Proiect Targets for Sewerage
Incremental Poiulation Served
(Thousand Inhabitant)
Target          Real              Real
State                                       1987        1987    %         1989    %
Amazonas                                      16          17   106          38   237
Para                                         310          92    30         148    48
Rondonia                                      88           4      5          4     5
North                                 414        113    27          190    46
Alagoas                                       89           6      7         73    82
Bahia                                        283         431   152         534   189
Ceara                                        408         152    37         239    59
Maranhao                                     174          60    35         112    64
Paraiba                                       92         169   184         234   254
Pernambuco                                   452         231    51         278    62
Piaui                                         33          10    33          10    33
Rio Grande do Norte                        1,016         228    22       1,092   108
Sergipe                                      303          38    13          63    21
Northeast                          2,850       1.325    47       2.635    93
Distrito Federal                             545         738   135         816   149
Goias                                        374         359    96         554   148
Mato Grosso                                  129         166   129          66    51
Mato Grosso do Sul                            74          40    54          42    57
Center West                         1.122      1.303   116       1.478   13
Espiritu Santo                               140         150   107         187   133
Minas Gerais                               1,000       1,145   115       1,417   142
Rio de Janeiro                             1,016          31      3        201    20
Sao Paulo                                  2,259      2,346   104        3,892   172
Southeast                           4,415      3,672    83       5,697   129
Parana                                       551         439    80         669   121
Rio Grande do Sul                            392          88    22         122    31
Santa Catarina                               285          67    24          84    30
South                               1.228        594    48         875    71
Total                                     10.029       7.007    69      10.875   108
Comments:
(a) By 1989, 10 SWCs complied and superseded their original 1987 targets, while
the remaining 13 fell below because of higher demand for water. In addition,
sewerage subprojects were more expensive and had less cost recovery capacity than
water subproject.
(b) The overall target was met mainly due to the extensive work coverage done
in the states of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais.



- 1 
4C.   Operating Performance of SWCs
Ratio of employees per
State                        UFW (%)                        1000 connections
Target Target   Real   Real         Target Target    Real       Real
1982   1987      1987   1989        1982    1987     1987     1989
Amazonas          44      30        43      47        NA       NA      9.0       8.0
Para              40      24        30      50        5.3     4.0       NA       5.0
Rondonia          38      23        NA      NA        8.6     6.0       NA       NA
North           NA      NA        37      48        NA      NA       9.0       6.5
Alagoas           28      20        28      42        6.4     5.0      6.0       6.0
Bahia             39      32        42      38        6.1     5.0      8.2       6.6
Ceara             29      20        40      47        5.0      4.0     5.0       4.0
Maranhao          44      26        56      57       10.7    7.1        8.7      8.9
Paraiba           45      27        37      43        5.6     5.0      6.6       6.5
Pernambuco        36      21        44      43        5.1     5.0      5.1       5.2
Piaui             37      22        34      31        5.9     5.0      5.2       6.3
Rio Gde. Norte   33       20        37      46        6.4     5.0       6.4      6.1
Sergipe           26      20        30      30        7.1     6.0      6.9       7.0
Northeast       NA      NA        37     41         NA      NA       6.5       6.3
Dist. Federal    23       20        17      20        3.5     3.5       6.3      6.9
Goias             19      20        25      28        8.5     5.0      9.6       8.1
M.Grosso          35      21        48      51        7.0     5.5       7.7      7.6
M.G.do Sul        40      23        46      38        5.1     4.3       NA       NA
Center West    NA       35        34     NA         NA      7.8      7.5       NA
Espirito Santo   NA        NA       31      34        NA       NA       7.2      6.2
Minas Gerais      NA      NA        28      30        NA       NA      4.2       4.2
Rio de Janeiro   40       24        17      23        4.0     4.0      8.2       8.2
Sao Paulo         25      20        25      25        4.5     4.2      3.8       3.7
Southeast       NA      NA       25      29         NA      NA       5.8       5.6
Parana            25      20        NA      NA        3.0     3.0       NA       NA
Rio Grande Sul   14       14        44      45        4.8     4.4      4.1       3.6
Sta. Catarina    NA       20        25      30        6.6     4.6      6.0       6.0
South           NA      NA       33      37         NA      NA       5.0       4.8
Comments:
(a) At the end, SWCs in the south and southeast regions maintained a moderate
operational performance; the remaining SWCs declined in operating performance
with some exceptions in the northeast and center-west.
(b) In all cases, unaccounted for water was higher than the original targets.
(c) Eigth SWCs improved or maintained its operational performance reducing UFW
with respect to the 1982 levels.
(d) Ten SWCs decreased the number of employees with respect to the 1982 levels;
and about 14 SWCs increased the hiring of employees over their initial targets,
thus, failing to comply with their expected cost contention measures.



- 19 -
4D. Overatina Performance of SWCs
Percentage of
State                                  Personnel Cost over operating Cost
Real         Target         Real         Real
1982          1987          1987         1989
Amazonas                            NA            NA            57           48
Para                                53           51             53           61
Rondonia                            68            60            NA           NA
North                           NA             NA            55           54
Alagoas                             61            57            59           57
Bahia                               61            59            NA           NA
Ceara                               70            68            63           53
Naranhao                            63            54            63           58
Paraiba                             66            66            60           63
Pernambuco                          67            60            61           59
Piaui                               58            57            73           73
Rio Gde. Norte                      64            63            58           63
Sergipe                             69            60            59           68
Northeast                       NA             NA            62           62
Dist. Federal                       69            63            59           72
Goias                               69            67            70           73
Mato Grosso                         62            56            64           78
Mato Grosso do Sul                  64            60            NA           NA
Center West                     66             62            64           NA
Espiritu Santo                      NA            NA            60           69
Minas Gerais                        NA            NA            55           59
Rio de Janeiro                      70            69            68           64
Sao Paulo                           64            63            62           71
Southeast                       NA             NA           61            66
Parana                              53            51            83           86
Rio Grande Sul                      71            71            48           62
Santa Catarina                      62            56            57           50
South                           NA             NA           62            66
Comments:
(a) About 10 SWCs increased personnel expense. over the original targets, thus
failing to comply with expected cost contention measures; the remaining 11 were
effective in decreasing personnel costs.
(b) Ten SWCs took effective measures to decrease personnel costs with respect to
the 1982 levels.



- 20 -
4E. Operating Performance of SWCS
Operating Cost           Operating Cost  Compliance
plus Depreciation        plus Depreciation  with NTL
over Revenues         plus Debt Service
State                                                over Revenues
Real  Target  Real    Real      Target Real Real
1982   1987   1987    1989       1987   1987 1989
Amazonas            0.90   0.80   1.05    0.73         1    1.87 1.58       N
Para                0.92   0.81   1.26    1.13         1    1.61 1.52       N
Rondonia            1.35   0.82   1.43    1.22         1      NA   NA      NA
North             NA      NA    1.24    1.02        1    1.74 1.55
Alagoas             0.74   0.71   1.15    1.3          1    1.87 2.15       N
Bahia               0.82   0.74   1.10    0.92         1    1.73 0.96       y
Ceara               0.97   0.73   1.18    1.16         1      NA   NA      NA
Maranhao             1.15   0.80   1.01    1.60        1      NA  1.7       N
Paraiba             1.01   0.84   1.08    1.84         1      NA   NA      NA
Pernambuco          0.93   0.72   1.06    1.06         1    1.28 1.57       N
Piaui               0.85   0.71   1.06    1.12         1      NA  1.20      N
Rio Gde. Norte      0.91   0.85   1.25    1.62         1      NA  1.65      N
Sergipe             0.98   0.93   0.80    0.84         1    0.85 0.85       Y
Northeast         NA      NA    1.07    1.27        1    1.43 2.34
Dist. Federal       0.80   0.73   0.90    1.02         1    1.07 1.06       N
Goias               0.82   0.72   1.03    1.05         1      NA   NA      NA
Mato Grosso         1.53   0.88   1.18    1.39         1    1.25 1.44       N
Y Grosso do Sul     1.25   0.75   1.04    0.86         1    1.22 0.97       y
Center West       NA      NA    1.03    1.08        1    1.18 1.15       N
Espiritu Santo       NA    0.70   1.01    0.72         1      NA   NA      NA
Minas Gerais         NA    0.70   0.74    0.90         1    0.90 1.00       Y
Rio de Janeiro      0.94   0.81   0.96    0.91         1    1.07 0.97       Y
Sao Paulo           0.75   0.71   0.71    0.81         1     1.3 0.75       y
Southeast         NA      NA    0.85    0.83        1    1.09 0.92
Parana              0.81   0.77   0.87    0.70         1     1.0 0.76       Y
Rio Grande Sul      0.89   0.82   0.85    0.92         1    1.05 1.05       N
Sta. Catarina       1.07   0.72   1.49    0.98         1    1.69 1.34       N
South             NA      NA    1.07    0.86        1    1.24 1.05       N
Comments:
(a) By 1989, seven SWCs were in strict compliance with the National Tariff Law;
those in the south and southeast regions complied or were very close to the
target.
(b) Despite efforts to raise tariffs, many SWCs reported cash shortages to comply
with their financial obligations.
(c) All SWCs in the south and southeast regions, one in the north, and two in the
northeast were covering their operating costs including depreciation.
(d) Eight SWCs improved its net income with respect to the 1982 level.



- 21 -
5. Project Costs and Financina
5A. Project Costs (USS millions)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign      Total
DescriDtion       Costs      Costs      Costs       Costs    Costs       Costs
Water Supply      204.5      87.6       292.1      442.2        189.5       631.7
Sewerage          139.7      59.9       199.6      141.3        60.5        201.8
Equipment          15.8       6.8        22.6        1.8        0.7         2.5
Engineering and
Administration    64.7       32.4        97.1       99.2        48.8        148.0
Sanitation Rio
de Janeiro          0.3       1.0         1.3
Base Costs        425.0     187.7       612.7      684.5        299.5       984.0
Physical Cont.    42.5       18.8        61.3
Price Cont.       130.0      56.9       186.9
Total Cost        597.5     265.7       863.2      684.5        299.5       984.0
Front-End Fee                 2.3         2.3                   2.3         2.3
Total Cost        597.5     265.7       863.2      684.5        301.8       986.3
Comments:
(a)  The increase in cost of 14% is explained as follows: (i) price increases
were higher than the original contingencies;  (ii) project completion took 20
months more than originally estimated; and (iii) frequently, final cost estimates
resulted higher than the original estimates in the EVGs.
(b)  Project investments were distributed 72% for water and 28% for sewerage,
reflecting the priority that most SWCs granted to water services.
(c) The total cost of the PLANASA 1983-1987 program including the project was
US$3,023 millions; this cost was obtained from investment information in the
Catalogo Brasileiro de Engenharia Sanitaria e Ambiental that consolidates sector
statistics.
(d) The cost in USS was estimated from the information of about 500 subloans
(CTNs) financed by the Bank: (i) for each subloans (CTN), the actual Bank dis-
bursement in USS was added to the respective Borrower and FAEs' contributions;
(ii) Borrower and FAEs contributions, usually expressed in UPCs and OTNs, were
converted into USS using the rate of exchange at the time of subloan signing;
these currencies varied slightly with respect to the USS during 1983-87 when most
of the work was done.



- 22 -
5B. Proiect Financing (USS millions)
Planned
Loan
Source                    Agreement   Revised         %       Final        %
IBRD Expenditure
Cateaorv
Eligible Subprojects        299.0       300.0       35          300.0       30
Studies under Part B          1.0         0.0                   0.0
Fee                           2.3         2.3                   2.3
Total IBRD                  302.3       302.3       35          302.3       30
CEF                         129.5       129.5        15         442.1       45
State Water and
Seweraae Fund               431.4       431.4       50          241.9       25
TOTAL                       863.2       863.2      100          986.3       100
Comments:
(a) All States were short in revenues to fund the FAEs and fell short in the
matching commitment.
(b) The Borrower was able to supply the additional funds to complete the program;
in addition, it opened a line of credit to the states to support the shortage in
counterpart funds.
(c) An amendment of October 26, 1988, deleted Part B of the Loan and shifted the
proceeds to Part A Eligible Subprojects, to assist CEF's sanitation department
and to study marginal cost pricing techniques.



- 23 -
6. Pro,ect Results
6A. Direct Benefits
Ponulation Served
Appraisal    Actual       Actual
Indicators                    1987        1987         1989
Population Benefitted
by the Project
With water                    22.0        17.2         24.0
With Sewerage                 10.0         7.0         10.8
Comments:
(a) The project met its water and sewerage targets; (b) the sewerage target was
met due to extensive works made by the states of Sao Paulo and M.nas Gerais; (c)
about 13 SWCs fell short in sewerage targets mainly because of lack of additional
financing to carry out the original plan and problems faced during the selection
and execution processes due to the high initial cost and restraints in cost
recovery of sewerage works; and (d) in 1989, the sector as a whole reported
service levels of 89% in water and 39% in sewerage with respect to the total
urban population.
6B. Economic Imoact
Economic                   Appraisal                  Actual
Rate of Return                Estimate                 Estimate
Water                           10.5                       NA
Sewerage                        9.6                       NA
Water and Sewerage              9.8                        NA
Comments:
(a) The appraisal's ERRs represent national averages; and (b) the information
system did not allowed to estimate an economic rate of return because of
incomplete information on finances and distorted economic information.
6C. Studies
Studies               Purpose                     Status         Impact of Study
Institutional         To improve operatio-        Partially      Performance
Diagnosis of          nal efficiency in           implemented   improved
Borrower and SWCs    some SWCs
Revaluation of        To improve assets           Partially      Improved
Assets                management                  implemented   accounting
practices
Marginal Cost         To improve tariff           Poorly         Slightly
studies                     implemented   improvement
Comments:
(a) Many SWCs made partial implementation of the institutional program because
of their weak financial capacity and lack of loan funds to implement and continue
the program; and (b) the program suffers from a low level of supervision during
the second half of the project.



- 24 -
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant        Subiect              Compliance                 Status
2.02 (a)    Disbursements for Rio        NA        Level was maintained very closed
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo                  to the limit
and Minas Gerais be kept
under 45% of the Bank Loan
2.03 (c)    Loan funds committed by    NA          In compliance
12/31/86
3.01 (d)    Timely provision of         Each       Not in compliance.  The FAEs
counterpart funds          year        failed in the matching funds.
3.01 (g)    Eligibility Criteria:
(a) 1983-87 EGVs           Each        In compliance, but quality
Year       decreased considerable.
(b) Institutional          Each        Partial compliance.  The
Program for SWCs       Year        program declined after 1986.
(c) Generate revenues    83/85         Not in compliance
to cover operating
costs, depreciation
and debt service
3.03 (c)    Semi-annual supervision Partial        Very poor in the last years
by BNH/CEF to SWCB      Compliance    of the project
3.01 (a)    Terms & conditions in   SWCs in
on-lending Agreements Compliance
3.07        Monitoring indicators    09/83         Partial compliance.  There was
for SWCs                               not a periodic follow-up and
most were not reached.
3.06 (b)    Bank to review changes                 In compliance
in EGVs
4.07        Technical Assistance       09/84       Implemented
to Borrower
Technical assistance       09/84       Recommendations partially
to monitor SWCs                        implemented by BNH/CEF
Schedule    SWCs internal audit        12/84       In compliance
B (15)      units to be established
and staffed
B(17)       Carry out the institu-                 During the first half of the
tional program, including              project it worked out well but
programs to reduce UFW                 later it deteriorated badly.
and tariff studies
Comments:
(a) The financial covenant was only partially met during short periods of the
project; SWCs failed to comply with committed tariffs levels due to political
pressures, late approvals, underestimated tariff increases, and a tariff freeze
in 1986 for a long period until early 1987; (b) in 1987, tariffs were adjusted
under a financial recovery plan, but not enough to cope with inflation; and (c)
after 1988, there was no pressures at central level to tariff increases but only
7 SWCs complied with the NTL.



- 25 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
8A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned    Revised       Final
Through Appraisal                  NA           NA          91
Board Approval through             NA           NA           7
Effectiveness
Supervision                        NA          NA           95
PCR Preparation                    NA          NA           20
TOTAL                              NA           NA         213
Comments:
(a) The staff input includes Bank staff and consultants.



- 26 -
8B.  Missions a/
Stage of           Month/   Number of    Days     Specialization  Rating   Type of
Proiect Cycle        Year    Persons    in Field    Reprewented    Status  Problems
b/          c/      dl
Through Appraisal
Identification      03/82       2          5          E, F
Preparation         12/82       4         28          E, F
Appraisal through      02/83
Board Approval         03/83      2          7          E, F, EC
Board approval         03/83
through                07/83      2          16         E, F, EC   1          F
effectiveness
Supervision
1          11/83      4          34         E, F        1          F
2          02/84       3         19          E, F       2          F
3          04/84       1         19          F          2          F
4          07/84       1         12          F          1          F
5          05/85      3          12          E, F       2          F
6          07/85       2         12          E, F        1         F
7          11/85       3         12          E, F       1          F
8          02/86       2         12          E, F        1         F
9          07/86       2         12          E, F        1         F
10          10/86       3         12          E, F        1         F
11          12/86       3         12          E, F        1         F
12          12/87       6         25          E, F       1          F
13          06/89      2          17          E, F       1          F
Comments:
(a) Usually, Bank missions supervised several projects during the stay in the
country with the support of private consultants.
(b) Key to Specialization: F, Financial Analyst; E, Engineer; EC, Economist.
(c) Key to Status: 1, Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2, Moderate Problems; 3,
Major Problems.
(d) Key to Problems: F, Financial; M, Managerial



- 27 -
Annex 1
Brazil
Water Sulplv and Sewerage Sector Project
Service Levels and Tariffs
% served              % served           Average
State                              with water             with sewer         Tariff
1982     1989     1982      1989        1988
Acre                                  NA        NA       NA       NA          NA
Amapa                                 NA        NA       NA       NA         45.8
Amazonas                              78        94        7        3         77.9
Para                                  69        75        4        17        35.8
Rondonia                              55        90        5        2         46.5
Roraima                               NA       NA        NA       NA         35.5
North                               62       86         5        7         43.6
Alagoas                               70        71        5        11        53.7
Bahia                                 75        81        7        13        85.4
Ceara                                 49        64        6        12        65.5
Maranhao                              58        63       15        15        53.0
Paraiba                               77        89       17       25         62.0
Pernambuco                            69        78       16       16         36.0
Piaui                                 73        91        3        2         37.4
Rio Gde do Norte                      75        75        6        8          6.7
Sergipe                               90        89        4        8         54.0
Northeast                           71       78        9        12         50.9
Distrito Federal                      93        90       61       85         50.9
Goias                                 58        78       17        29        36.5
Mato Grosso                           67        73       10        9         63.0
Mato Grosso do Sul                    66        88       15        13        60.0
Center West                         71       82        26       34         45.8
Espiritu Santo                        NA        87       NA        16        47.5
Minas Gerais                          NA        87        8        29        49.5
Rio de Janeiro                        87        86       56       49         38.8
Sao Paulo                             90        89       47        57        60.5
Southeast                                    87        37       38         49.2
Parana                                83        86       25       25         73.2
Rio Gde do Sul                        89        90        8        8         66.1
Santa Catarina                        67        84        5        7         89.5
South                               80       87        13                  72.9
Comments:
(a) In the largest metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo with the
highest population growth water service levels declined.
(b) Sewerage levels in six states declined or remained steady.
(c) Average tariffs are expressed in US$ cents per cubic meter for combined water
and sewerage services.



- 28 -
Annex 2
Brazil
Water suoDlv and Sewerage Sector Proiect
Distribution of Total Cost by SWC
(USS millions)
Pro-ect    % of    Proaram       % of    Urban
State                        Cost      Total      Cost       Total   POp. %
Acre                         NA        NA          1.9        0.06    0.35
Amapa                        NA        NA          6.2        0.21    0.26
Amazonas                      0.8       0.07    159.6         5.28     1.35
Para                         19.1       1.94      80.9        2.68    2.89
Rondonia                     10.9       1.11      28.7        0.95     0.43
Roraima                      NA        NA          8.1        0.26    0.12
North                      30.8       3.12    285.4         9.44     5.40
Alagoas                      10.5       1.06      47.7        1.58      1.63
Bahia                       135.4      13.73    216.7         7.17     6.42
Ceara                         3.9       0.40      24.3        0.80     3.18
Maranhao                     12.3       1.25    109.0         3.61      1.98
Paraiba                      14.0       1.42      58.5        1.04    2.08
PL=nambuco                   28.8       2.92      73.9        2.45     5.45
Piaui                        17.2       1.74      20.4        0.68     1.49
Rio Grande do Norte          28.7       2.91      30.2        1.30     1.88
Sergipe                      12.2       1.24      42.0        1.39     1.10
Northeast                 263.0      26.66    631.7        20.9     25.20
Distrito Federal              2.5       0.25    122.3         4.05      1.88
Goias                         8.0       0.81    244.7         8.07     3.26
Mato Grosso                  47.5       4.82      68.1        2.25      1.63
Mato Grosso do Sul            3.0       0.30      86.7        2.87      1.03
center West                61.0       6.18    521.8        17.27     7.81
Espirito Santo               26.7       2.71      34.4        1.14     1.57
Minas Gerais                 30.1       3.05    401.6        13.29    13.68
Rio de Janeiro              221.1      22.42    250.5         8.29    11.39
Sao Paulo                   195.4      19.81    600.0        19.85   20.31
Southeast                 473.3      47.98  1,286.5        42.57    46.95
Parana                       81.6       8.27    116.6         3.86    6.88
Rio Grande do Sul            42.7       4.33    101.6         3.36    4.91
Santa Catarina               33.4       3.39      78.9        2.61    2.83
South                     168.8      17.11    297.1         9.83   14.63
Total                       986.3    100.00  3.022.5        100.00  100.00
Comments:
(a) The distribution of funds is consistent with population distribution and also
with the financial capacity of the SWCs.
tb) The project cost resulted about 30% of the PLANASA five-year program instead
of 14% originally planned.



