Document of                           1
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-¶3470-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP}
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$302.3 MILLION
TO THE
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
March 1, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of February 15, 1983
Cr$ 1 = US$.0035
US$1 = Cr$ 285.54
ACRONYMS
BNH       -  National Housing Bank
COSAN     -  Operations Division of BNH for the Sanitation System
FAE       -  State Water and Sewerage Fund
FGTS      -  Employee Indemnity Fund (BNH)
FINEST    -  BNH's Financing Program for States and Small Communities
NTL       -  National Tariff Law
ORTN      -  Readjustable National Treasury Bond
PAHO      -  Pan-American Health Organization
PLANASA   -  National Sanitation Plan
REFINAG   -  BNH's Line of Credit for Water Supply Projects
REFINESG  -  BNH's Line of Credit for Sewerage Projects
SWCs      -  State Water Companies
UPC       -  Standard Capital Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Unless otherwise indicated, dollar equivalent figures in this report are
based on the dollar-cruzeiro exchange rate as of July 1982 (US$1.00 =
Cr$182.71), the date of the base cost estimates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:       State Water and Sewerage Companies (SWCs)
Amount:              US$302.3 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of US$2.3 million
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms
to Final
Beneficiaries:       Repayment in 18 to 30 years, including 1.5 to 4.5 years
of grace, at 2.5% to 10.5% interest per annum on the
outstanding principal, adjusted in accordance with the
ORTN index, plus various one-time fees amounting to about
2.7% of the amount of the subloans. The ultimate
beneficiaries would bear the exchange risk, as long as
the ORTN index moves with the exchange rate. Otherwise
the Government assumes the exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would meet priority development
needs for water supply and sewerage services in Brazil.
It is in support of the Plano Nacional de Saneamento
(PLANASA) whose objectives are to provide by the year
1990 90% of the urban population with piped water and 65%
with sewerage services. The estimated cost of the
proposed project is US$863 million. It includes about
60% of new PLANASA investment for the 1983-84 period.
The Bank loan would cover 35% of the estimated project
costs. All 26 SWCs would be eligible to borrow Bank
resources provided they comply with eligibility criteria
agreed with BNH and the Bank. The project will support
the goals of PLANASA's program to benefit an estimated 33
million people including 15 million below the poverty
level. It will substantially strengthen the operational
capability of BNH, especially in the areas of project
selection, appraisal and supervision. In addition it
will provide institutional support and strengthening to
the SWCs.
Ths dwument ha a atfictd ditibuUOf and may be ued by rcipents only in the perfomance
of thWr dkhl 4UL43. Its cont#nts my rot otherwie be dimeWsod without World Bank authorization.



--US$ Million Equivalent---
Estimated Costs:                                      Local  Foreign  Total    %
Water Supply Systems                                204.5    87.6   292.1    48
Sewerage Systems                                    139.7    59.9   199.6    33
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                  15.8      6.8    22.6      4
Engineering and Administration                       64.7    32.4    97.1    15
Project Preparation - Rio de Janeiro
low income areas sanitation project                  .3     1.0      1.3      -
Base Costs:                                           425.0   187.7   612.7   100
Physical Contingency                                 42.5    18.8    61.3    10
Price Contingency                                   130.0    56.9   186.9    30
Total Project Cost                                  597.5   263.4   860.9       -
Front-End Fee on Loan                               -        2.3     2.3      -
Total Financing Required:                           597.5   265.7   863.2       -
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                            36.6   265.7   302.3    35
BNH                                                 129.5     -      129.5    15
State Water and Sewerage
Revolving Funds                                   431.4     -      431.4    50
597.5   265.7   863.2       -
Estimated
Disbursements:               Bank FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual                       13.7        51.6    63.0    81.0    72.0    21.0
Cumulative                   13.7        65.3   128.3   209.3   281.3   302.3
Rate of Return:      Important benefits due to improved health, in particular
lower infant mortality, increased labor productivity and
improved environmental conditions cannot be quantified
reliably. The return on investraent based on incremental
costs and revenues is estimated at 10% for the project as
a whole.
Risks:               The project does not present any special risks.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4229-BR, dated February 28, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$302.3 MILLION-
TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$302.3 million
including a capitalized front-end fee of US$2.3 million to help finance a
Water and Sewerage Sector Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. Missions to prepare a country
economic up-date were in Brazil in May-June 1982 and in January 1983; their
report is expected to be available in Spring 1983. Part I of this report
as well as the country data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings
and projections of those missions.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, con-
tinued expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings,
while at the same time improving the situation of Brazil's economically
most disadvantaged population. Success on these fronts is crucial to the
solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments problems, as well as to
the sustained improvement of living standards and better income
distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first major
elections since the mid-1960s.  Opposition candidates have captured the
governorships of several key states, but no immediate impact is expected on
national economic policies.



-2-
Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by t]he quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted
to cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7
billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal
increase in exports and an absolute reduction in imports. Over the entire
1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of
imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation
of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real
imports, and the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices
and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over
those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach
US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion.  Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation
and domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth
to stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which
had lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage capital
inflow. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on
official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated tax incen-
tive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial transactions
tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was raised from 15%
to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo particularly hard hit by
high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer durables
purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8 billion
in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current account



- 3-
deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2 billion) in
net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade surplus was a 33%
increase in manufactured exports and the further contraction of petroleum
imports. International reserves rose US$600 million, to the equivalent of
4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6 months coverage at the end of
1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The policy measures introduced and
the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement served to sustain the
confidence of the international bankers, and no problems were experienced
in raising the US$10 billion in required net borrowing during 1981.
1982 and Prospects for the Future
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the heretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$775 million trade sur-lus, which was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982, The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, GDP growth was nil, and inflation
accelerated slightly to just below 100%.
9.        The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983.  The
Government's 1983 austerity program, which will receive assistance from the
IMF on the order of US$5.9 billion (including both compensatory financing
and extended fund facilities) over 1982-85, is designed to meet its debt
servicing obligations in the face of reduced external financing from
commercial banks. A major objective for 1983 is to generate an increased
trade surplus of US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance
of payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements. Measures have
been announced to reduce the consolidated federal public deficit, restrain
monetary and credit expansion, reduce interest and commodity subsidies, and
temporarily impose.stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions. Real
exchange rate devaluations equivalent to 1% per month above domestic
inflation are expected to increase the competitiveness of exports.1/
Indexation of wages has also been reduced below 100%. With these policy
changes, inflation is expected to drop to 70% by the end of the year,
though accompanied by continued recession and probably higher unemployment.
10.       In order to achieve the objectives of the IMF-sanctioned
austerity program for 1983, Brazil will require the continued support of
the international financial community. To this end, the Government has,
since end-December 1982, been negotiating a four-point financial assistance
plan with foreign commercial banks, The plan calls for the provision by
these banks of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rolling over of US$4
billion in medium-term debt coming due in 1983, the maintenance of
short-term credit lines for trade financing and the restoration of credit
lines to foreign branches of Brazilian banks to mid-1982 levels.  Though
some delays have been experienced, negotiations are expected to be
completed by end-February 1983.
1/   Subsequent to this writing, on February 18, 1983, the Government
announced a devaluation of the cruzeiro by 30%. It is now intended to
maintain this rate in real terms hereafter.



-4-
lines to foreign branches of Brazilian banks to mid-1982 levels. Though
some delays have been experienced, negotiations are expected to be
completed by end-February 1983.
11.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bear variable interest rates, each 1%
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each
dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill
would fall by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
12.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in
exploration have been accelerated, and foreign companies have been invited
to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company.
Investments have also been undertaken to develop the nation's hydroelectric
potential, to initiate nuclear power production, to substitute alcohol for
gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and to explore Brazil's shale
oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies.   As a result of these, and other,
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by 20% between 1979 and
1981. By the same token, domestic petroleum production increased by 41%
from March 1980 to March 1982. Despite these encouraging results,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. Petroleum and petroleum
derivative imports totaled US$10 billion (51% of total imports) in 1982.
13.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years. The
development of domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and
the stimulation of domestic savings will continue to require priority
attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with a GDP decrease in
1983 followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually increasing growth to about
5% by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario should be compatible with a falling
current account deficit through 1986.
15.       The Government expects gross M&LT commiercial bank borrowings to
be limited to JUS$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982.
Such borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$5.6 billion,
constituting an 8% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve



- 5 -
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net M&LT borrowings should fall below the 1983 level.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio is expected to decline from 81% in
1982 to approximately 60% in 1986.
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Braziil's ability to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak
world economy, and attain continued access to international commercial bank
lending. Despite these uncertainties, however, the Brazilian economy
remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy-makers have repeatedly
demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances. With the
Government's commitment to the austerity program in 1983 and IMF support,
Brazil should be able to make the adjustments needed to cope with adverse
international circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a more
efficient development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil
remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the amounts
indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
17.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services.2/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indications, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
18.       By September 30, 1982 the Bank had made 116 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,998.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 62 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, and US$471.5 million in
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



- 6 -
FY82.  The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1982 was US$3,401.9
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, eight loans totaling
US$722.1 million have been approved. So far in FY83 four loans totaling
US$687.4 million have been approved, US$ 8.9 million for a project to help
finance the preparation of future investment projects in the metropolitan
region of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for
an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for
third secondary and feeder roads project, and US$220.0 million for ax second
development banking project. Work is advanced on the third phase project
of the Northwest region development program, on a market town improvement
project in the State of Parana, on a third agro--industries credit project,
on a second rural development project in the State of Bahia, and on a rural
electrification project.
20.       Brazil's external public and private clebt outstanding and
disbursed is estimated to have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. The
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated at 4.2% while its share
in total debt service has remained constant at 2%. These percentages are
not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
21.       As of September 30, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil
totalled US$851.0 million, of which US$572.5 million had been sold, repaid
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$278.5 million, US$211.5 million
represent loans and US$67.0 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments
as of September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
22.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed
project is directed. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the
state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the
South, loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites
and services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in
medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Previous loans
for nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural
research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao
Francisco river basin, and integrated rural development were designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast
and the northwest.



- 7 -
23.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project which seeks to support BNH's efforts to strengthen the
institutional capacity of its sanitation department and of the State Water
Companies (SWCs) through the transfer of managerial skills and training in
project selection, evaluation and supervision techniques. Loans for urban
development, electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways,
agricultural research and extension, rural development, and for alcohol and
biomass energy development also have important institution-building
*            objectives.
24.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects dr-signed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. With respect to increasing export capacity, several
loans to BNDES designed to strengthen industrial development and increase
its efficiency have been made. Lending for the electric power sector also
support this objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its
development lessens the need for petroleum imports. The alcohol and
biomass energy development project addresses the need to restrict growth of
petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport
sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the
economical flow of exports.
25.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve employment creation
and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the Bank in
Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to contribute to the country's
development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged
and signed with private financial institutions and several further
operations are in preparation.
26.       Brazil is obviously undergoing a period of major difficulties in
large part as a result of external events. Major efforts have already been
made by the Government to respond and adjust to these circumstances and the
Bank will endeavor to frame its lending so as to be as supportive as
possible. Discussions are under way with the Government to determine which
of the modalities of the Bank's Action Program, approved by the Executive
Directors on February 22, 1983, can best be adapted to Brazilian
circumstances. It is expected that some results of these discussions will
be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in early FY84.



- 8 -
PART III - THE WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
27.       Municipalities traditionally had responsibility for the provision
of water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties,
Brazil's accelerating urbanization and the poor performance of the
municipalities in providing even minimum services, prompted the federal and
state governments to finance new water and sewerage systems with budget
grants to satisfy the most urgent needs. In 1964, the Banco Nacional da
Habitacao (BNH) was created and it was assigned nationwide responsibility
for the sector in 1967 (para. 45). In 1968, the Sistema Financiero de
Saneamento (SFS) was set up in BNH and revolving investment funds (FAEs)
and the state water companies (SWCs) were created in the states. Even
though some US$700 million were invested between 1960 and 1970, the
situation was still deteriorating in 1970. Only about 50% of the urban
population had piped water connections, and less than 25% had sewerage
services.
28.       In response to the above situation, in 1971 the Government
launched PLANASA -- a nationwide program to finance, promote and coordinate
the sector -- under the aegis of BNH. The main focus of PLANASA has been
to provide a stable source of financing, and to help the states develop
their own institutional structure in the water supply and sewerage sector.
To enter the program, a state must sign an agreement with BNH establishing
a statewide water and sewerage company, draw up a sector investment plan
and guarantee BNH loans. The statewide organization of the program has two
major advantages . First, it makes possible the establishment of tariff
structures which permit a cross-subsidy mechanism within the state.
Second, activities of the companies allow for significant economies of
scale, and financial flexibility.
29.       PLANASA has remained basically unchanged since its creation,
although its targets have been modified and new programs for small
communities and for institutional development have been added. PLANASA has
been growing steadily and by 1981 covered 65% of all cities with over 5,000
inhabitants. PLANASA also extends to small rural communities. Thus, only
the dispersed rural population do not receive benefits from PLANASA.
30.       At this time the primary PLANASA goals are to provide 90% of the
urban population with water supply and 65% with sewerage by the end of the
decade. In addition, research and institutional development, and
investment in small communities will be emphasized. A new emphasis in
pollution control is planned mainly in major metropolitan areas.
31.       Roughly one-half of PLANASA investments are financed by BNH, and
the other half by the states through the revolving water and sewerage funds
(FAEs). BNH has set up several credit lines to finance water and sewerage
projects, some of which would be used under the project (para. 52).



- 9 -
32.       The cverall policy framework and investment planning of PLANASA
are satisfactory and provide BNH with a common reference for the evaluation
of the SWCs' investment programs and individual projects. Investment
planning is done at the state level. BNH reviews, approves and
consolidates the SWCs' investment plans and develops the overall PLANASA
investment program.
33.       The SWCs execute investment projects and operate the water and
sewerage systems. All funds flow through financial intermediaries,
generally the state banks which act as agents of both the FAEs and BNH.
Project preparation and supervision are carried out by BNH. BNH operates
through regional offices which supervise activities in each state and
through a central staff which plans and supervises on a national level.
The procedures used for project preparation and supervision have been
formulated with, Bank assistance (Loan 1970-BR) and are being carried out
satisfactorily.
34.       Each SWC prepares annually, with the assistance of consultants, a
Global Feasibility Report (EVG) which sets forth service level objectives,
investments, construction schedules and a financing plan for a five-year
period. In addition, the SWC, the state, and BNH enter in a contract (CTN)
that specifies the required financing for each eligible subproject.
35.       Substantial efforts have been made under PLANASA over the past
decade. Investment during this period amounted to about US$6.2 billion,
which resulted in providing piped water to about 69% of the urban
population in 1982. Because of relatively high costs and more complex
building and operating requirements, however, sewerage service levels have
increased only from 20% of the urban population in 1971 to 30% after
investment ofUS$2.5 billion. To achieve the 1990 service level targets,
estimated investments in 1982 prices of US$5 billion for water supply and
US$10 billion for sewerage would be required.
36.       In May 1978, the Government approved the National Tariff Law
(NTL) for water supply and sewerage services (Law No. 6528). The objec-
tives of the law are to: (a) relate tariffs to the cost of services;
(b) make service affordable to the low-income population; and (c) ensure
the financial viability of the SWCs. Decree No. 82587 approved in November
6, 1978 regulates implementation of the tariff law. This law establishes
that by 1983 the SWC's revenues for each year should be sufficient to cover
operating expenses, depreciation, and debt service. Full attainment of the
NTL objectives would permit a high level of cost recovery in the sector.
The 1983 objective is to be reached through a gradual program of tariff
adjustments. In previous projects, the Bank and BNH agreed for all SWCs
under Bank-financed projects that the gap to compliance would be eliminated
by one-third each year during 1981 to 1983. At negotiations of the
proposed loan, BNH presented to the Bank a plan which provides for 19 SWCs
to comply with the NTL in 1983 and for four of the SWCs to comply with NTL
by 1985 with agreed upon annual targets.   The remaining three are not
expected to comply and would therefore be excluded from the project. The
Bank will review quarterly with BNH and the Government the adequacy of
level and the structure of rates charged by the SWCs for their water and
sewerage services (Section 4.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 10 -
37.       The tariff legislation establishes four categories of consumers:
residential, commercial, industrial, and official and stipulates a
progressive tariff system that allows for cross-subsidization between
lower- and higher-income consumers. The tariff legislation assigns to BNH
the responsibility for overseeing the financial performance of the
companies operating in the sector and setting appropriate tariff
adjustments.
Bank Role and Lending Strategy
38.       The Bank has been assisting Brazil in the implementation of
PLANASA since 1971. The Bank has provided US$769 million for nine water
supply and sewerage projects, accounting for about 10% of PLANASA's
investment in 1971-82. Six operations were confined to the states of Sao
Paulo and Minas Gerais. The other three loans covered more than one state
each. The Bank loans now finance works in 14 of 26 states and
territories. The first four projects have been completed and, despite
initial delays are considered to have been successful.3/ Of the five
projects under execution, the Sao Paulo Sewerage Treatment Project (Loan
1525-BR) has encountered difficulties which are detailed in Annex 2. A
solution to these problems is expected shortly after the recently-elected
Sao Paulo State authorities take office in March. Three projects covering
seven states (Loans 1656-BR, 1823-BR and 1850-BR) are progressing well,
although the first two encountered delays in start up. Such delays
continue to affect the most recent project supported by Loan 1970-BR which
covers an additional six SWCs. To facilitate the start-up of the proposed
project, BNH has prepared satisfactory final designs for works planned for
1983 and is currently processing the respective loan agreements and
initiating procurement.
39.       The Bank has played a major role in the strengthening of the
sector. It has made contributions in the following areas: (a) the
preparation and enactment of the National Tariff Law and the implementation
of tariff increases on a quarterly basis; (b) the standardization of the
SWC's operational procedures; (c) the decentralization of BNH's project
preparation and supervision activities to regional offices; and (d) the
development of a uniform accounting system for the SWCs. The Bank has also
fostered the growing participation of BNH in Bank project appraisal
supervision and procurement; the adoption by BNH of basic criteria for
economic analysis of projects; and institutional improvements in the SWCs
and BNH. Through the proposed project, the Bank would be further
contributing toward the achievement of PLANASA's 1990 goals. It would help
consolidate the actions and reforms initiated through the ongoing projects
geared at developing sector institutions, policies and operational
procedures.
3/ See Project Performance Audit Reports for Loans 757-BR and 758-BR. A
completion Report for Loan 1009-BR is available. Additionally, Loan
1309-BR is fully disbursed and the executing agency is preparing the
completion report.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was identified in April 1982, and prepared by BNH and
its consultants. A Bank mission appraised the project in September 1982.
The mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Repurt - Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Project" dated February 28, 1983 iG being circulated
separately.  Negotiations with the Borrower and Gua4rantor were held
from January 25 to 28, 1983 at the borrowers headquarters in Rio de
Janeiro.  The Brazilian delegation was led by Mr. Emanuel Sader, Technical
Advisor to the President. A supplemental project data sheet, including a
timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is attached as
Annex III.
41.       The proposed project would, through the provision of piped water
and sewerage services, improve the environment and health conditions in
Brazil.  In addition, the project would provide institutional support to
the SWCs and would strengthen BNH's project selection, appraisal and
supervision capabilities. The project will support PLANASA's program to
benefit an estimated 33 million people including 15.4 million under the
poverty level. The consolidated rate of return of the project calculated
on the basis of covenanted tariff levels is estimated at 10%.
Project Concept
42.       The proposed project encompasses about 60% of new PLANASA
investment for the 1983-84 period. It would consist of: (a) water supply
and sewerage subprojects meeting selection criteria agreed upon between BNH
and the Bank; (b) engineering and consulting services as required for
design and supervision; (c) institutional development programs, including
consulting services and equipment, to the SWCs; and (d) consultant services
for the preparation of a sanitation project for the low income metropolitan
areas of Rio de Janeiro.
43.       All SWCs would be eligible to use Bank resources to finance water
supply and sewerage projects. They would have to comply with the following
conditions which are applicable to all water and sewerage subprojects
financed by BNH (Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement):
-    Presentation of a five-year investment program and financing plan
(EVG) satisfactory to BNH and the Bank;
-    Presentation of an institutional development program satisfactory
to BNH and the Bank;
-    Compliance with the National Tariff Law or, in special cases,
presentation of a plan satisfactory to BNH and the Bank,
indicating compliance with the tariff law by 1985 with agreed
upon annual targets;



- 12 -
Compliance with loan covenants and full commitment of Bank
resources in the case of SWCs that are beneficiaries of existing
Bank loans; and
-    signed on-lending agreement with BNH.
BNH will review annually compliance by each.SWC.  Because of substantial
investments in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Minas Gerais, and the need to
maintain a balanced sector approach, Bank participation in subprojects in
these states combined would be limited to 45% of the proposed loan amount
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The subproject selection criteria are similar to the ones
established under prev'ous Bank loans and are as follows:
subprojects to represent the least cost solution for service
standards used in Brazil. Water supply subprojects in cities
with populations greater than 50,000 inhabitants would have
average tariffs which are generating revenues not lower than 75%
of the subproject's average long-term incremental cost or a
financial rate of return of 5% or higher. All sewerage
subprojects, and water supply subprojects in small- and
medium-size cities with populations between 5,000 and 50,000
inhabitants -- not benefiting from economies of scale as do the
larger urban centers -- should have average tariffs which are
generating revenues not lower than 60% of the subproject's
average long-term incremental cost or a financial rate of return
of 1% of higher. In cases where the financial rate of return is
used, IBNH in addition will prepare a financial analysis of the
subproject and its effect on the SWC's f:inancial condition and
on projected cash flows. For water supply subprojects in
communities with less than 5,000 people, the eligibility test
would be that subprojects in the State would cost less than
US$180 equivalent per beneficiary in 1980 prices. Subprojects
not meeting the above criteria would qualify for Bank financing
only if strong social and economic justification satisfactory to
the Banik were provided. These subprojects are likely to be in
towns where poverty prevails and large investments are needed to
compensate for the lack of previous investments. Bank resources
will be used in the financing of grant-financed subprojects where
the poverty level is higher than 70%.



- 13 -
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
45.       The Borrower (BNH) was established in 1964 as a financially and
administratively autonomous institution. Since 1967, it has been under the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. BNH's main activ-
ities are tc finance, through intermediary institutions, low- and medium-
income housing, urban development and sanitation programs. A Board of
Directors ard Executive Committee oversee its functions. BNH has regional
agencies in all states to coordinate its'activities at the state level.
BNH's principal source of funds is the Fundo de Guarantia do Tempo de
Servico (FGTS), a national employee security fund financed by a payroll
tax. Other sources include interest and principal repayments on outstand-
ing loans ard interest on national treasury bonds. For the period 1983-87,
BNH's total lending is budgeted at US$19 billion, including US$5.0 billion
for the san-'tation sector. Its average cash generation from operations
during this period is expected to be US$500 million annually, substantially
higher than the US$385 million level achieved in 1980-81. BNH's financial
position is sound and its resources are expected to be sufficient to carry
out its planned investment program.
46.       In September 1967 BNH established the Operations Division for the
Sanitation Finance System (COSAN), which is responsible for water and
sewerage activities. COSAN consists of three subdivisions responsible
respectively for: (i) the review and approval of the SWCs' water supply
and sewerage investment program; (ii) the supervision of the Technical
Supervisory Agencies (OTs) which are retained for each state by BNH to
review designs and assist in supervision; and (iii) the authorization of
disbursements and monitoring of SWC's financial performance. BNH's
regional offices, which are responsible for sector investments in one or
more states, also review and supervise projects at the local level. These
offices -- strengthened since the agency's decentralization in 1976 --
operate under guidelines set by COSAN.
47.       Overall, COSAN has performed satisfactorily.  However, some
institutional weaknesses exist. The Bank and BNH agreed under Loans
1823-BR and 1970-BR to carry out a technical assistance program for COSAN.
PAHO is the executing agency of the technical assistance program. After
some initial delays resulting from difficulties in recruiting qualified
consultants, the program is advancing satisfactorily. The diagnosis of
areas to be strengthened and recommendations are expected by April 30,
1983; BNH agreed to implement the recommendations by September 30, 1984
(Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The SWCs would be the executing agencies of the subprojects.
They are owned by their state governments. Each has a board of directors
appointed by the state governor for a period of four years. Except for the
president of the board of directors, who is the chief executive officer,
each director is the working head of one of the operational departments.
The board is, in most cases, composed of qualified professionals.



- 14 -
49.       The quality of management and organization among the SWCs is
uneven. They all have departments for technical operations, administration
and finance. Under PRODISAN -- the institutional development program
created in 1979 and partially financed by the Bank -- BNH is financing
technical assistance programs to improve and strengthen the SWCs
institutionally. In addition, PRODISAN is carrying out programs in
assisting the SWCs in the areas of management development, control of
unaccounted-for water, billing and collection, customer inventory and
files, global feasibility studies, and programming and budgeting. The
program is being expanded to include assistance in project preparation.
Costs and Financing
50.       The project's cost is estimated at US$860 million of which US$263
million or 31% is the estimated foreign exchange component. It includes
physical contingencies of 10%, and price contingencies of 27.6% of the July
1982 project cost. The total cost was determined on the basis of the
1983-87 investment programs of the 26 SWCs, as defined in the EVGs. The
project, after allowing for the limitations on investment in Sao Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro, and Minas Gerais (para. 43) will include 60% of new commitments
in 1983-84.   Cost estimates for major subprojects are based on bills of
quantities and unit prices prepared by consultants, the SWCs, and BNH.
Estimates for other subprojects are based on unit costs of similar works.
The project includes a total of 3,160 staff-months of consultants services
at an average cost of US$6,640 per month (including travel and overhead)
for engineering, technical assistance and project preparation.
51.       The SWC investment programs are to be financed by loans from BNH
and FAEs. The Bank loan of US$302.3 million includes a front-end fee of
US$2.3 million. The loan would finance 35% of the project cost which would
give the Bank a reasonably appropriate basis for the institution
strengthening role that it is to play. The balance would be financed by
BNH funds (15%) and loans from the FAEs (50%). BNH intends to obtain
US$100 million from commercial banks under co-financing arrangements in
support of its overall investment program of which the project forms a
part. Assurances have been obtained from the Federal Government and from
the State Governments to guarantee the funds necessary to carry out the
proposed project on schedule.
Relending Terms
52.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans for approved subproj-
ects of the SWCs using its basic lines of credit (REFINAG for water supply
and REFINESG for sewerage subprojects) as well as its FINEST II and III
programs. REFINAG and REFINESG provide subloans to SWCs to cover one-half
of the cost of subprojects in medium-size or capital cities, with the other
half of the cost being financed from FAE subloans. On the basis of state
per capita income these subloans are made at interest rates of 2.5% to
10.5% per annum on the outstanding balance which is adjusted for inflation
according to the ORTN index, for terms of 18 years (water supply) to 30



- 15 -
years (sewerage) including grace periods of 1.5 to 4.5 years. BNH under
its FINEST II credit line provides loans to a state in the same amount that
the state has already passed on as contributions to the SWCs' water and
sewerage subprojects in small communities. Its FINEST III program matches
funds provided by the states to finance specific water or sewerage
subprojects in small communities. The states -- under both FINEST II and
III -- transfer BNH's loan contributions to the beneficiary SWCs to finance
the approved subprojects. For small communities the SWCs receive 70% of
the subprojects' costs as grants, and the remaining 30% as loans. The
terms and conditions of the FINEST II and III credits are essentially the
same as those under BNH's REFINAG and REFINESG credit lines, but interest
rates are one percentage point lower.
53.       BNH's FINEST credit lines were set up ':o provide supplemental
finance for urban water and sewerage projects, thus encouraging the mobil-
ization of resources at the state level for invectments in the sector.
FINEST II and III -- as explained above -- are designed to induce the
states and SWCs to step up their investments in small communities and both
would be eligible for Bank financing. The ultimate beneficiaries will bear
the risk on exchange, as long as the ORTN index moves with the exchange
rate. Otherwise the Government bears the exchange risk. The Government
would also compensate BNH for the difference between the borrowing and the
onlending rates.
Project Implementation
54.       The Bank loan would be made to BNH with the guarantee of the
Government. The 26 SWCs would be eligible as subborrowers and benefi-
ciaries. A project loan agreement approved by the Bank, signed by BNH, the
States, the State Banks, and SWCs would be used for each subproject to be
financed. This agreement would include general lending conditions which
are similar to those in use under previous Bank loans. BNH agreed on:
(a) the terms and conditions of the project loan agreements (Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement); (b) the signature by three SWCs, State Banks and
States of their first project loan agreement as a condition of loan
effectiveness; and (c) the signature of project loan agreements acceptable
to the Bank as a condition for disbursement for each subloan. The
executing agencies for the subproject will be the SWCs. The individual
subprojects are being prepared and would be supervised by consultants
retained by the SWCs and independent technical agencies (OTs) contracted by
BNH to supervise project preparation construction and execution. BNH has
responsibility for coordinating the entire project, the financial and
economic evaluations, and the technical assistance of the SWCs. The
project will be implemented during the 1983-87 period.  The construction
schedule is compatible with the executing capabilities of each SWC. The
project is estimated to be completed by December 31, 1987. The closing
date would be September 30, 1989.



- 16 -
55.       Project supervision by BHN would allow the Bank to concentrate on
strengthening the PLANASA system and sector-wide issues. The Bank would
review and approve a priori all subprojects with estimated cost of US$8
million or more. The aggregate of these subprojects would represent about
60% of the programmed investments. Subprojects with an estimated cost of
less than US$8 million would be approved by BNH subject to ex-post Bank
review (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). This arrangement, now
in operation for all ongoing water and sewerage loans, is working
satisfactorily and is consistent with BNH's present supervision
capabilities.
Procurement
56.       Goods and services would be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with Bank guidelines, on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Contracts for equipment and materials costing less than
US$500,000 and civil works costing less than US$3,000,000 may be advertised
locally with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In evaluation of bids
for equipment and materials, local bidders will be allowed a margin of
preference of either 15% of the CIF price or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Approximately 60% of goods and services would be
procured using international competitive bidding. The ex-ante review of
procurement decisions will be made by BNH as in previous loans. This
speeds up decisions, and, thus, project execution. The Bank would carry
out ex-post reviews at random,and if it is determined that procurement is
inconsistent with agreed procedures, no expenditures for such items would
be financed out of the proceeds of the loan and the Bank may cancel such
amount of the loan.
Disbursements
57.       The loan would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 68% of BNH's
disbursements under subloans to SWCs for eligible subprojects and
consultant services; (b) 34% of BNH's disbursements under FINEST II
subloans to the states for subprojects in small communities; (c) 68% of
BNH's disbursements under FINEST III subloans to the states in small
communities; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures
for consultant services to COSAN for the preparation of the Rio de Janeiro
low-income areas sanitation project; and (e) 34% of disbursements by BNH or
the project states from grants. In order to reduce the interval during
which BNH would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, BNH may request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars
from the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the Central
Bank of Brazil (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). BNH would be
entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon
presentatibn to the Central Bank of statements forexpenditures of the
project. Conversion from cruzeiros into dollars would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project
were made. The Central Bank would forward those statements to the Bank,
which would then replenish the Special Account. Detailed documentation
would be retained by BNH and made available for review by the



- 17 -
Bank supervision missions. Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million
(5%) of the loan will be available for project expenditures incurred since
January 1, =.983 provided that the eligibility and selection criteria for
the project companies and subprojects respectively have been met and the
Bank's procurement procedures have been followed (Section 2.02(c) (i) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to be disbursed between
1983 and Seltember 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audit
58.       BI-H has a satisfactory accounting system and its 1981 financial
statements have been the subject of an independent opinion by its external
auditors, a large and respected Brazilian firm. Financial accounting of
the SWCs follows a uniform system established by BNH. Improvements are
needed in some cases and would be supported by the technical assistance
included in the project. BNH and the SWCs will submit their financial
statements, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within
five months from the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.04 and Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
59.       The economic benefits of water supply and sewerage projects are
difficult to quantify meaningfully in monetary terms. Therefore, rates of
return on investment have been calculated using revenues as a proxy for
minimum economic benefits. however, since revenues derive from adminis-
tered tariffs which do not fully reflect the consumer's willingness to
pay, actual economic benefits are likely to be higher. The economic rate
of return so calculated for the project as a whole -- including the
medium-size cities and small communities -- is at about 10% for the
combined water and sewerage investments. The project will serve about 24
million new consumers with piped water and provide about 12.2 million
existing consumers with improved water quality, service, pressure and
reliability. PLANASA's investment program will increase overall urban
water supply service levels in Brazil from 69% in 1983 to 89% of the urban
population by 1987. Sewerage services will be extended to about 9 million
individuals, increasing service levels from 30% to 37%. The impact of the
project will continue increasing as complementary works are completed. It
is roughly estimated that the equivalent number of persons to be served
during the total useful life of the project will be about 50 million.
About 78% of the urban poor will have water connections by 1987. About
12 million or about 50% of the new customers to be benefitted from the
water supply investments belong to the poverty group.  Sewerage investments
which previously had been limited to densely propulated areas (mostly
capital and large cities) will be gradually extended to some medium-sized
cities. About 3.4 million urban poor (38% of the incremental population to
be served) will be included among sewerage subproject beneficiaries.



- 18 -
Risks
60.       Given the simple nature of the works in the project, the strength
and experience of the local construction industry and the consultants
currently engaged in detailed engineering studies, this project does not
face any speciaL risks. BNHts supervisory experience gained under previous
Bank projects will be consolidated and improved upon during the execution
of this project, Some of the SWCs are weak, however. The Bank plans to
closely supervise the project, especially during the first two years, when
BNH's institutional development program is being implemented and when the
new SWC's are being familiarized with Bank procedures. The Government
tariff law demonstrates Brazil's commitment to assure the financial
viability of the SWCs, and adherence to the proposed loan's financial and
management covenants would ensure that each beneficiary SWC would realize
that target.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao (BNH), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Conditions of
effectiveness will be the signature by three SWCs, State Banks and States
of their first project loan agreements. The main features of the draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements are referred to in the text and are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 1, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-    _                                                  Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE}AGES.
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            8512.0                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INC0ME            MIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL    2195.0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (VS$)                   320.0        570.0    2050.0                    1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)       374.6        540.9    1018.3                    1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MIS-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0        95322.0  118667.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1           55.9      67.6                      65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          8.4         11.2      13.7                      35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       44.1         48.2      53.1                      92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6         42.7      39.2                      39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                           53.8         54.3      56.8                      56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          3.0       4.0                       4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0          2.9       2.2                       2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                5.5          4.8       4.1                       3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.6         37.3      29.5                      31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.1         10.6       8.7                       8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          2.6       2.0                       2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        111.0     203.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0        102.0     124.0                     110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    107.3       104.3      110.6/d                   108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.8         62.0      64.4/i                    66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         35.7        34.4       35.9/d                    34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       19.4         12.5        7.2                      5.6                        9.2
F P 'iTH
FE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7           58.9      62.8                      64.2                      67.6
FANT MORTALITY RATE (PEk
IOUSAND)                           118.2         98.6       77.4                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         55.0      77.1/e                    65.6
URBAN                                 ..         78.0      87.0/e                    78.9
RURAL                                 ..        28.0       56.8/e                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         58.0      64.8/e                    59.3
URBAN.                                ..         85.0      83.7/e                    75.3
RURAL                                 ..         24.0      31.7/e                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2561.2       2123.8    1700.0/f                  1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2772.1       1112.3     822.0/1                  1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              307.0       269.0      247.7/e                   477.4                     286.8
URBAN                              325.6       322.6         ..                     679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                   1903.4
ADhISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         18.0        ..                      27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1          4.8       4.9/e
URBAN                                 ..         4.6        4.7/e
RURAL                                 *-          5.2        5.3/e
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.1
URBAN                                 ..          1.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.7         47.6      63.0/e
URBAN                                 ..         75.6      84.9/i
RURAL                                 ..          8.4      19.2/e



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                  Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA 1 CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0       125.0      89.0/d,g                104.3                    102.9
MALE                 97.0       125.0      9O.CL1i                106.4                    107.1
FEMALE               93.0       125.0      87.0/d,g                103.3                     99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0        26.0      32.0/d                   41.3                     60.2
MALE                 11.0        26.0      30.074                   40.4                     66.4
PEMALE               10.0        26.0      35.0/i                   41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 18.6         16.7      58.0/d                   33.7                     31.6
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.1        28.0      22.9/d                   29.9                     25.8
SECONDARY                         12.5        13.2      14.5_h                   16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.2      76.4/e                   79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.7        24.4      53.6/a                   42.8                     51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.4       123.8    300.3                     270.5                    157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLULATION                       16.8        64.0     128.7                    107.7                    123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 53.7        35.8      44.5                     63.7                    112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         2.0       1.8                      2.7                      4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22978.5    29557.2  43796.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.2        20.1      27.5                     24.4                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6      29.9                     31.3                     38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3      24.4                     23.9                     25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.1        31.0      36.9                     33.6                     44.5
MALE                                52.7        49.3      53.1                     50.4                     56.3
FEMALE                              11.2        12.6      20.5                     16.8                     32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.4       1.2                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8/c
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0       9.4/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..     150.0/d                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    465.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.OF0                   371.1                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are popolation-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /I 1976; /f 1974.
/g   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                                              ANNEX  I
Page 3 Qt 5
DEFINITIehS OF SOCIIL INDICATORS
Ntes:  Although tie data are drawn frau sources generally judged the mes asduhorltative and cellahle, it shoald also be sated that they nay sat bh inter-
natiodeally comparable hocausro  the lack of stotdardieed deficltsons aod coeceprs used by different  -ounries So collecting the data.  The data are.  -e-
thele6s,  useful t  describe r.otrs of sagoltade, indicate creeds, and characetere Certain major differences hetweencruoites.
The orference groups arc (I) the soaso country geca  of the subject cruoury and (2) a c-unry groou  alep  sooa-ah- higher anerage income than the coanry group
of the sobjoot cpuncry (e0ceff  or   "Nigh locomP CIl lzporters" groap shore "Middle Iocoew Yorth Africa and Middle last" Is chreoc because of steengee
serbo-clturatl offilniles).  fthe rrfe- ee R aroup data the a-rrages are poplatioo weighted aritheotic naose for each idictator and shown only  hel
Iajorty of the co.ntries icea  group hba data for chat indictor.  litre the coeraege of countrien  -t0ng rho iediacaors depends on the availboility of dots
sod in not soifor.. caution nost bh   xerciteed in relatiog a-trages of ate indicator to s-ocbet.  These anerages are only  useful it comparing the nolue of
oeeindicatorate  eimAe -=n  re   _orry ad arefertnce groups.
ARIA (cho.ssand sq.km.)                                                                           PopulatIon par Hotpital hed - total.  crban, sod rural - Popu.ation (total
Total - total earfaro area crporising land area ad ifland eaters; 1979 dots.                      urba=. sod rural) didod  by  theIr  respecttve osber of hos.pItal Ieds
Agricultural - Entimate of ogori-lturol area used tempororily or persaasently                     satlabe is poblir and privato geerol and specialioed hospital andre-
for crepe, paseures. markhe  add kitehen garden. or to lre follo; 1979 derc.                   "bIlllrar,oscentecs.  scipftabo Are e          Itiobfshoento pe-asetly staffed
hy ot leant ono phystcian. Estahblishmxnt pro-iding peiucipally c.sta-
GNP fIfE IAPITO  (11$)   GNP prc  aypita eotit et at correct   acrket prhirs. cal-                 dial oars are cot inrluded.  Rural hospitals. hovere, include health
rolated by s..e co.cecslae s- hod au Oocrld bank Atlas (1978 dO basIs); 19b6,                    aod nodocol  centoro not yepcmoeftly staffed bya physirian (boo by a
1970, and 1989  data,.                                                                            mdIcal aesiseaot, narse, nidwife. etc.) whirh offer is-patient acconao-
dacion and pro-ide a limited cango of medical facilities. Poe toads-
tbRNRGY CORSUhfTIO  PER LAF1TA - Acnnol roesosytlon of cos-drolol energy (cool                      tirol porposes urboo hotyisals ieclade W'dDs principol/genseol hospitals,
ad lignite, pecroloom, natural gas sod hydro-. earlear sed geocihrtal eler-                       and rural hospitals, local or reral bonpitals  edd medical asd  _ter.ity
tirifty) it  kilog-ams of cool equinleot per ca.pita; 1960, 1970, srd 1979                        reuters.  Sptcilizeed hospitals afe  inloded only under total.
deea.                                                                                          Adeissioss per Hospital Sed - Total uu-ber of admissions to or discharges
fros hbopintarls ivded by tie nusbor of beds.
POUPLAkION AhD VITAL STATISTICS
Total PFoplation. Mid-Trot (thoutands) - At of July 1; 1960, 1970, aod 1980                  HOUSING
daue.                                                                                        Aoerage Size of household (persons per household) - total., orba. and roral-
Urfae Fopulation (percent ol coral) - Racia of arfoo  Cc total populationi                        A household coosists of a group at Irdiridola. sho share li'ing qdartetr
different definicions of arben ocean may affoct cnparability of date                            and thr   le tools   A hoarde   r  bodgor my or may sot be included io
*                                    amaegrcountries, 1960, 190, and 1990 data.                                                      she houseobld for statistical purponos.
Pop22atlu- cPojortioo                                                                          Anor..geonstec  fpono  pe.om-o                 , orbor, and e-ca-  -o-rgooo
PopulAtion io Paro  2000 -lCurrtot population projections are hated on 1980                    hcoprss perr               S  all  ba, end rutal atocupied co.r.stiorol
total population by age and non and their socIality and fertility rttes,                     dwellings. rcenpctively.  Ineellings exclude  oo-pecmoetstrtures and
Projereioo yact=eters for noetality cokes coafriso of three lJnolt .ssue-                    unoccupied pfrts.
leg  life cupe_caaty of birth iuncresi=g sith country's per capita income                  Acrss cn gleccrip  (percent of dvellings) - torol. arban, and rural -
lerel, and Pomaslo life coerotancy stabiliziog at 77.5 years.  The pcao-                     Coocventioal duellbog  eith eblectriciry do living qoarters ao Percentage
meters far fot ilily rat  alno hooe those levels asanobog decline ic                         of torol, orhac. on  crerl dwellilegs  espoctlnrly.
fertility  -ccrdi,g 00 in,ome level acd past lasily planni  pecfornce.
Sorh ouoccy in thor as:sud one of these oine co-hbi-tioes of  .orcalty                   EDUCATION
snd fertility  trrrda fur projrction pyronsou.                                             Adjustod EnrollPret Riti_s
Staoiono.ry  poulatio- - In a etacioaory poPulacior there is on g&oos. stoie                    Yri=ry sobool -  rol. male and feaIle - GrIos total, mtle and femalo
the bichrate t e        Iqol tothe deh rate,  ud alno theage strc_t_ e   e-                     eerolbo-etofallagesatthepri=rypleveloa  percetoges of respecive
=fan  coostoot.  This is achiered only after fertility rarea deolite to                         primry school-age populatios; noryally iecludos  bhildree aged b-11
thc r"plre, art leoel of unil oet copeoduc-io- rate, weno each gel raction                    years bho  adjusted for different lo-gthe of pri=py odoostion; for
of xvoranreploces itself esrctly.  The cecolossoy yplop tion sloe wan                           countries with unirersal educati on eec.llmaot may rexcod lff peroent
osciaored nn the boles of the projec-ed chararfocgca of the poolatmc_                           oine same pepils are belo_ orabove the official school age.
So the pear y O2, asd the rate of declima of fertility rtat  to replace-                    Secondary school - total, pale and female - Cosp.red as sbhoe; s-onedary
=not lenel.                                                                                     educatinncequires at reant fear years of approved primary in-teoction;
Toar etatioarry populati-o is reached - The year =hen scat ioary population                       provides g.enral, -ocrtioeal, -r c.ochor training iesctctiions for pupils
sire will be reshoed.                                                                          usually of 12 to 13 years of age;  __cosponddence 000mm   are ges...Ily
Fop.l.tion Densily                                                                                  excluded.
Per sq. k=. - Mid-yarp population pet square kilonoce- (100 herctros) of                     focaional eorollment (percet of secondary) - Voiol insitutioss
total area; L9i, 1970 asd 1979 dare.                                                         includeccehelrol, ioductrial, or other programs which  operate independ-
Pt  so.           le         ad i o   - Co-p-ed su boye foe agricultural load                  ently or as dep-cteents of secondary inatitotions.
ooy; 1990. 1931 aod 193  da.                                                               fPyPl-fesoher rat-o - pri=ay, and  econdary - Total crudeonto carlled in
PPpulation Ago St-orct   (per-et) - Childree (0-14 years). vorking-oge (IS-                     prisary tad aerodocy lenels divided by nu-bers of teo-hecr  it the
h4 yearz), and retieod  (65 yearz and over) as per-tooages of mid-year pops-                   correspondieg le-ela.
Iatinn; 1960, 1930, oad 1990 data.                                                           Aduit lieracynate (percent) - Literste adolts (fble to read and wite)
fopuLatlee Icoech sote (percent) -  otoal - Soooal growth rares of total tid-                     as a perconge of total adolt population aged L5 years sod aver.
year populotio for 1950-60. 1960-70. aod 1970-80.
fopolacios Growth date (pecceoc) -aurbano- Annual irocth rates of arbae popu-                CONSUMPTION
iarions for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-80.                                                   Fossonger Ca  (per eboosond poralotlon) - Pesngor  rs cosprise meece
Cade Birth lace (per thousand) - Anoos1 live birthi  per th-useod of  fin-poor                   oars soaring lean then eight persuns; err lodensa sblans,              ..cesear    aod
populatioe; 1960, 1970, ead 19Sf data,                                                         militory veh-icls.
Cruade  eath lace  (per t..oua.d) - Annual dearbs per thousand  of cud-year                    RdlOo kecegvecs (Pe  thousaed populocloef - All tpyet of receivecs for radio
populotinn; 1960. 1930, and 199O Iota.                                                          bra.dats on groenrl public per .boussod of popopltion ee cludes ma-
Gross Rep-ductinn Rote- Avrage nupber of daughters a vnn will bear i                            li-c ded recei-rs io contie lad in cearo whIe cegistestne of radio
bee normal reprnductive period if she eperi-e-cs present cge-spI iflic fer-                    nets woa  in effect; dara far recent years sy not be c.sparable since
il tIy races; 0sally fioe-year -vesrges eding in 1965, 1970, aod 1980.                        rose co_ntries ahli sled licersing.
aooily Ploning -Acceptoru, Aaol (thousands) - Annual nuerc of acceptors                        TV Rleoiwen, (per chousand y_polaien) - TV             fcreinert toe brnadcast tn
of birth-orcontl devices under auspices of sutlooal fa.ily planning program.                    reaorol public per thous.ad population; exclodos unliteosed TV receivers
family flonoSog -TUsers (percoot of married sosoof - Percescoge of  arcried                       io co triges and i  yearu  vhen regintrotion of rv sets was so effae.
noo:n of  b -ll-bearaNg age (15-44 yearn) vhon  oib-cootrol  deoices to hw.spoc firslotlon (per ehousaod popoloriCo) - Shows the averoge cir-
oil maccied wv=n in soa  age grnuy.                                                            culation of "dolly general Imterest newvspae",  defined as-a peiodiral
psblicaton- devcel primrily to recordiog geoeral sewn. It fi coosidseed
FOOD AND b9UTRITION                                                                                 to be "daily" if it appears at lace four ties a veok.
fadex of Fond Production par Capita (l9by-31-fG_) - Indeo of per copita aneual                 Coe=so Aooual Pfteeduece Per            -apito Per Tear- Band o  the number of
Pycd-otiao  of all foed -o-oditie.a  Production exclade- oaed osn  feed sod                     tioklts sold docing  the pear, incl=ding odmissinns to drivn-in renemas
is  de calendar year bausi.  Connnodities en.e  primary goods (e.g. sugecac-e                  aed mpbile aoits
iostsad of sugac) whIch urn edible and .o.ttain notrints (e.g. ..ffee and
tma ore eocludod).  Aggrogxe-  crodocti.o  of earh .ountry is bhsed  e                     LAB ORPFORCE
notidgl a_rage predator prior weights; 196L-65, 10, and 1980 deco.                           Total Labor force (thbo.sads) - Eoor-i-ally o-tive ppreom.- itcildiog
Pfr oapitt  supply of raeecies (percent of requireNents) - Competed fros                         arBgd faeces and ooemployed bht e-iluditg  hoosesrns, stadeocs, etc.,
energy oqoicaleot of net food supplies sVarlahle in i coutry pre  capita                       corering ppoplarioo oc all ages.   Difoos So coejoos cooetrieu arc
per day.  Available  suppliss comprise domestic prod-ction, imports loss                       Oct  -ouparcble; 1960, 1970 end 1900 daco.
exports, and chaeges io stook.  Ner supplies o.eladt snisal feed, soeds.                       Pme=l  (percent) - female labor fo_re as percentce of total labor farce.
qaaotiierso ad io food prrcesuog, ado lassos io distrib-ioe.  Require-                         Agricoltsre (perceet) - labor force in farmteg, forestry. huntiog med
sools  were estimated by FAO based o- physiological  eedu for oor=l ui-                          fishing os percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1910 and 1990 dato.
city tod health considerlig   eossootal tempera..re, body weights, age                         Industry (percent) - L bor force  o mining ,  .onstructinn,  _eoufootueig
ond ser distrib-oino of poylutlsoo, and  illa-ing 10 percent for vste at                         and electricity, nater oad gau  as p.ceontagef  etarl labor force;
household lensI; 1961-65, 1931 and t977 data.                                                    1960, 1970 sod 1995 date.
Per caplta supply of protein broos per don) - Protein co-rer- of per ccapit                    Participation Rare (pe,rct) - total, mle, and ferale - P-etilipotibn  or
oe  supply of food pee lp.  Neot supply of fool is defined as obono.  Re-                      arcivity rates ore computed as total, salew,  ad fomale 1acbr force on
nslcosaeoo for all roaCrcas esatablished by  SDAP provide Poe misni                            porcentages  of total, sale ad lemale population of all ages  -espect ly;
allowaoces of hI grans of tocal p-oteic per day aod 20 gros  of aenial and                      1960, 1970, cod 190O data.  These are based or lLO' participation rates
Znlsc yroOelr. of which 1j grsma should be soimal pro geio.   These stood-                     rrflocriog age-sexosoccorc  of the populatloc, tod long tire trend,  A
ards are lore  thon those of 75 g-cos of -otal protein aol 25 graBN of                         few estImates ace f-oo earl oal toryces.
animal proteIn as  n avoeage for the world, proposed by PAO ir thi Third                     E o.o.c.   DePerdecy Rdatoi  -  Satio of popolone ooder 15 aod 65 aod o0er
.foeld Food  1riny; l961-65, 1970 aod 1977 data.                                               to che cotl labor force.
w  Per capita protein supply loom tni_o1 snd pulse -Yroteip sopply of food de-
rfved fren  ao=als and puLses in graos per day; 1961-65, 1970 cod 1977 daca.               1NCO1.9  DISTRIBPTION
Child (uges 1-4) Dlosb lane (per hoou--d) - Aus-l deoths per thoccsud in                       Percentage of Prifote Ionee (hobh In cash and kied) - Rerived  by rcohers
age group 1-  years, to childrcn in this age groop, for mast dvevloping oun-                   5 perceen, richest 20 perreot, poorest 20 percent, aod poorest 40 perteot
triet drat derived fros life rables; 196G, 1970  ad 1980 data.                                 of households.
biALTN                                                                                         POVERTY TYMGYT GRO1 PS
Life Expectancy at Bcirt  (yesrs) - Avecage onuboc of yearn of lifs retaining                  The  eolsowlel  estilsts ore very appro-i-te smooaees of poverty lanel.,
at birth; 1960. 1930 aol 1990 data.                                                            and should be interpreted vith ons iderahbl  caution.
'If,"t Slrcolity sRoe (per thousned) - Aonual deths of iofonso ondr one year                   istifated Absolute Ponvrty loosen  Lavel (UIS per capita) - nrba   nd rural -
of age per thousaod live births; 1960. 1970 sod 198O data.                                     Absolute po-erly iccome lenel is that income level below which s minimal
Acero  to  oafe Water  (perec  of poeslaitof - coraal, nrbaq, and roral - Nun-                  outcit-oally sdlqetce di0 pis esseorial mon-food re   cemotz  is o  at
ber of people (etalr. nbha,. aod rural)  ich reuson.able scooss to solo                        affordable.
wator supply (includes treased surfore waters or _utroated bht  Encnntatiated                latiated Rela-ie- Ponertey Ioc-  Lerel (US$ er cp rite) - urhan ond crorl -
woter such as that iftc    protectod boholes. springs, asd asnitoty wells) as                  gurul relative poverty incoog leyel is one-third af acerage pee ospit.
pare-toges of their respective poyaunstics.  Ionanrhas areg s public                           personal iotae   of the cnantry.  fUrba  loon  is derived fros the  at1al
fonstain or -tondpnst located sot nore than 2DO meters from o house say be                     lbevl viuh  djasitmer foe higher rest of lieing iS  srban arens.
cenmidnred as being withis reosomable occss of that bass.  In roeol sres                     latiRited Potalotien Solon Absolute Yoverty Iocome Leselo(ecest) - urban
rea= hb     m         -t;cesswvoud isply that the housewife or members of the h-oueheld        and rural - cocoont of populatinn (urhas and ret) obo see "absolute
do sat  have to speed o dispropcrtion.te pono of the dy  in f-ohieg the                       pfer".
familp's nester onnoda.
Access to loc 7ees Die.osal (perrcet of  puPlstitee  - total, -nhan, and ered -
Nfstne of penple (tntal. nrboe,  qd roral) serYed by encrst. disposal ia
peresra0es of their rcepceoice   pplsoionn,  Hocrena diaposal toy ioclude
the  cedltootLn Ad disp.osl.  ibthn  witrbvt trees si  of hns en reta
ond  sagte-nater by soter-borse ayseeno or the sie of pit pritieg and aiti-
be insstllations.
FoPulatto a pb bsitAn - topulatiao dtvided by sombre 0f prootising physi-                                                            Roonoric snd Sneisl Darn Dinistos
c-nd  qnlified from a medi.as  mchool at vi-neraity levl.                                                                      Ao-osnic dalynis .ad P-eje-ti-es   Depsrt-ee t
Partalors  Rec fis ing Peronn- Papslatisn divided by snber of proatis.ig                                                                           Ispy 1062
saBle cod femalle geadoateossrees. aaatmeeat soresac. resoolcol neeresand
soesing asailisries.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population      :  119.0 =illion £1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (19f0)
Indicator                                    Amount                        Average Annual Increase (X)                     Share of GDP at Market Price. (%)
(millio  USI$ Current)                  (at Constant 1970 Prices)                            (at current Prices)
1981                   1965-70     1970-75      1975-80     1981-86             1970        1975       1981 b/
National Accounts
Grosa D.ometic Product /a                             284,003                   7.7        10.6          6.9         2.0             100.0       100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                          29,196                   1.9         5.7         4.7          4.5              10.2        10.9        12.0
lndustry                                             77,115                   9.2        11.6         7.6           .08            35.8         37.2        31.9
Services                                            135,275                   8.0        10.7         6.8         4.1              54.0         51.9        55.9
Consumption                         ,                 230,325                   7.7         9.8          5.7         3.3              77.8        76.6        81.1
Grons Invest=ent                                       55,328                   9.4        14.6          5.2         3.6              22.7        21.3        19.5
Eoporta of Goods and NFS                               25,575                   8.2        11.2          7.3         6.5               6.7         7.5         9.0
Imports of Goodx and NFS                               27,199                  14.5        17.2         2.8          4.4               7.2        11.4         9.6
Gross D-ometic Savings                               53,677                   7.9        12.9         6.1         -                22.2         Z3.4        18.9
Amount                    Average Annual Increaae (1)                Compositino  of Merchandise Trade (0)
(Million US$ Curreot)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1981                  1970-75          1975-80      1981-86                   1970         1975        1980
Fercha-dise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                   23,393                 11.1              7.7             2.8                    100.0        100.0       100.0
Primary cL/                                          8,954                 8.3              1.1              0.8                    76.7          62.7        38.3
Manufactures d/                                     13,358.6              28.2             18.2              5.6                    22.5          34.8        57.1
Merchandise Isport                                    22,080                 14.8            -3.3              1.2                    100.0        100.0       100.0
Food (cerealo)                                       1,077                -6.7             17.5              8.8                     4.5           3.0         4.8
petroleun                                           11,333                 7.6              4.3           -11.0                     11.2          25.4        51.3
Machinery and Equipment e/                           4,020                15.2             -7.5              2.0                    36.2          32.2        18.2
Other                                                5,650                28.4             -1.9              4.3                    48.1          39.4        25.7
1975           1976            1977           1978            1979            1980             1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                                     305.1           444.3          632.7           892.5        1,399.4         2,724.6          5,696.8
Enchange Rate (Cr00US$)                                         8.1            10.6            14.1           18.1            26.9           52.7             93.1
Export Price Index (1970 = 100)                               176.0           192.0          226.0           228.0           266.0          290.0            305
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)                               242.0           255.0          286.0           317.0           389.0          431.0            461
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = I0)                              72.0            75.0            79.0           72.0            68.0           67.0             66
As % of GDP
(at Ctrrent Cruzeiro Prices)
1970            1975              1979             1980 g/       1981 /
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current   Fevense                                                                    16.6            19.8              20.8              19.7          18
Current Expenditore                                                                  14.4            15.8              17.6              17.8          17.5
Surplos (+) or deficit (-)                                                            2.2             4.0               3.2               1.9             .5
Capital Espenditure                                                                  2.6              3.8               3.7               6.6           6.3
Financing (bet)                                                                     -0.4              0.2              -0.5               4.7            5.8
1965-70           1970-75            1975-79                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (%)                                                                 7.7               10.7                 5.8                   2.1
GNP per Capita Grovth Rate (R   )                                                   4.6                 7.7               3.0                  -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (%)                                                  7.2                7.3                6.5                   -
ICOR f/                                                                             2.9                3.0                3.9                    3.2
MFarginal Savings Rate f/                                                          20.5               25.7               22.7                  24.0
Import Elasticity  f/                                                               2.2                1.6                0.3                  -0.6
a/   At market prices; components are set domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add doe to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
ci Includes: coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   Includes:  manufactured and semi-processed
e/   Includes:  transportation materials
f/   the 1981-86 projectioos are average arithnetic nesn of the sin-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and sone minor government funds.
Source: Conjuntura Economica FJV Banco Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World Sank)                                                     February 3, 1983



GNP' Ceo0ni-a   US$2,050 (1990)
8.CT228,L                                                       88008~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIOJCT98 I/
797)   1)78         ~~~~187        98119                      .8 91                           1962          163           1984          l93           1986
Balan-  of layme-O
MI9 eool f goods .od .-j-10                                            -n,702        -4,018        -4,037        -6,086       -10,039       -12,564      -11,173            -14,697        -7, 197       -5,197        -4,029       -4,197
EoP-r.  of onod.                                                     18,6701      (10,128)      (12.1201      112.659)    (15,2461       120,1321      (23,293)            20.175        23.004        26,000        29,000       33,000
0600   f Goods                                 .               -12,210)    1-12.383)   (-12,023)   (-13,683)   (-18,0861    (-22.855)   (-22.6801                  (-19,400)   (-L7.6010   (-18,2000)   (-20.000)   (-24,0001
N-9.0-snr i-com                                                      -1,733        -2,189        -2,556        -3.257        -6,821        -6 .621      -9,089            -13.003       -11,197       -11.000      -10,774      -10,097
(o   hc,  100 ,    -oire 9   "oym..ee  /I                         (-1,698)      (-I 810)     1-2,103)      (-2,696)      (-6,180)      1-6,311)      7-9,179)           1010869)     (111000)       (9,0001       (9.3001      79,5001
-09 o   --scr no-i-o                                               -l 629        -1 576        -1,578       -1.805        -2,378        -3,120        -2,837             -2,469        -2,000       -2,197        -2 .055      -2, 300
49irs-f-r                                                                  2                           -           71            18           168           197                197          197           197           197          197
lorreonacc..orbol...                                              -6,704        -6,011       -6,237        -6,015       -10,021       -12, 396      -10,976           -14,500        -7.000        -5,000        -3 .8)2      -4,000
Dirro  Iroi-n   i0-0-00  lb                                                892           958           810        1,071         1,691         1,121.0       1,569              1,691        1,763         1,961         1,204  .   2,464
94L17O-o  -e                                                             6,8 30,       5,562        5,650        10,01          5,297         3,675.0       9 571  0      ~ 8,492           5,1686        6.0639,       4,094        4,433
Trsd ifi_ooeooc(9351                                                               (I 1           1.0591      (1,8501)        6,482        (1,632.47    (,l8                6241         (,27          (3.65         1394)         3,312)
Fi         -cslrodilt                                               (6,0207       (7,0137       826)1,11                  (0261          (8623    13132(268                           1000          1130           10,402)    31.2061
BaoenlesiOoO                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2,1521  1-2,6181  1-3.633)  1-5.166   (-.31)          76.610)   1-7,9567             (-7,1890)     1-7,449)      1-9.2361    1-10,391 (-12,08601
606501050 10.05 sbros)  (0097                         ~~~~~        ~ ~~~~-190  -248  _-267       -37           -610           416         -702            -1.045        -1,:146       -1,500        -196         -2,7'90
1100cr 08009.0 n.e.l.                                   218~~~~~~~~~~~~i  956   -.526           -635           628         4,063         1,393,0           1,362         2,297                           --
Ch-g   09s005I -oces  II                                                     950        -1,192          -650       -6,062          3,115        3,021          -855              4,000       -1,900        -1,504          -500         -600
lorerosronal Reseroes  d                                            4,041         6,544'        7.25         11,895         9.699        6,913         7,505              3,000         490          6,400         6,000        7,500
Oe.erool    snobs of Ompor9a Ic                            ~~            ~~~~         ~~~~~~4 6.1  7.2  10.3       6.4           36            4.                0.6           3.5           4.3           4            3.4
ACTUALI
1975          6876         1977          1976          1979          1990          2961              199-2
T-91 debO 6               .e8,dogad disb-rod                            23:,298      26,483        34,606        46,436        51,342        94.665        61,400  f/        66,400  f/
lobIic  _rd poblicly 8.---oed                                        13.706        10,349        21.595        30,284        35.478        39,060--
Offirilalsor                                                        3.959         4,401         4,~710       5,606         5,889         6,406                                -
1600                                                            (1093)        (1,217)       1,I131         J 61,62) 11 ,627           7206)         
00409                                           7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,86661  (3.214)  (3,3041  3.99       14062        (3407                                  -
Prorste encore                                    ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~ ~~9.7,47  12,9181  6607  23,883   29,599        31:,844--
1000.90 ooo-g.laesofoed                             ~~~~~~       ~~~~~9,592  61,13  13005    16,152        15,864        1.0                          
Ondiob-rsd d.b0 (p.blir only)                                           3,879         6,620         6,411        10,209        12,44,8       14,041--
Gro00 Disbb-oeants
00-5  gro.. disb-nse-   of 0410 I..n.                                   6.981         8,660         9,282        65:,164       1,1,726       10,085             -
laIl  sd p.16l69l7 g-..-exed                                      3.088         4,921          .422        10,16          9,132         6,093                
OlfOcial -op-n  -edils                                                429           405           669           490           448           467                               -
I0RD                                                                 200           17            298           275           302          343                                -
Othe   5009159t-l                                                     11           113            92           136           206           192                               -
2,991        4,203         4,862         9,216         8,197         5,82              --
lrlosneeoo-gnsrsoneed                              ~~~~~~        ~~~~~3,194  0, 239  3,861   5,048         2,576         3.69:2- 
0069 Se-i-e
T0,0 d(Ieor    aye                                                       ,9          14,322,       5,642         8,252        611,4147      13,168        13,504            10,990
r-.   lo-n)                                                         (1677         (1,431        (1.651        (240         1,51           540                - 
75700-  as 2,   Export  and 0F0                                            43.0          38 .7         42 .3         58,8         66.8          60 .0         61.0              61.0
15.00-  I5 2f GNP0                                                          2.9           2.,           3.0           3,7          4,3           4.8           -
4neos  Ineen   os0  9h, pbOih  656  (21 /(,                                   8S            7 .6          8.3           99           11.2          12,3           -
OffOcOslso,rres                                      7,7           0~~     ~    ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~~.9  8.0  70.5  8.3  8S7  -
800068  .090000 of000 lorsg- -d loon                                    0,          11.,3         100           1.             15           60.3 
0400rlsO  source                                       ~~~~     ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~                   ~       ~~18.  16.  16.1  14,  14,  13.6     -
leiraneeoorne                                           ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~        ~~7,0  9.3  8.7  9,3  11.2  9.5 
.860 lfOTos                                                                 4.0           4.3           4,1           3.~4          3.6          3,8 
2880 dfa.lr-,oe-/-09slgrosdooreel  (2)                                      3,5            .1           32             .6          2.6           3.4      
110849b       rire/090  69 derir ...2,                                                    3.2          31.7           2,.7         2.2           2.1      
As 2f 092dsbO  oossdtog
.ted oD.sese  1980            /hl
D.60 Stronct,re
M.-OtCies de0040  610yeses                                                                            33
(aSince 1964 on, In rees  ny        -o-oeet 00           T1 10.0..
lb  Fcrlading  1e-ier_.ed proils.
Or  E   dindho  doioolnond)sm.11n5j      -      and  foeisto 0  d -   - iOr gold.
/d   orldiog goid sod dois-  -sbn-ion sd).-on.-
Is  Gods oly,
/f            -0.05.1  bleO02.
R,..siI  -rsd-d mdi (World nenk).
Febr-ey 28, 1983
SourC:  9610 GeorsOdo lBssil; Oe-ero1 96b9 05.  (010: 78-81 (World Bank)



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30. 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed                                 1,950.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0           3.2
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          14.3
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5           5.4
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          12.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0           8.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          16.6
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0           1.0
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0           7.9
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            6.5
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          25.6
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0           3.4
1300   1976  Eletrobras                        Power               50.0            .3
1302   1976  Brazil                            Nutrition           19.0            .6
1317   1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       83.0          47.9
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power               82.0          14.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development  42.0            8.4
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          52.0           3.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer          55.0           1.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                            Education           32.0          21.8
1488   1977  Brazil                            Rural Development  17.0           11.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage           110.0          66.4
1537   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  24.0           18.9
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power              130.0          49.5
1557   1978  Brazil                            Roads              114.0          84.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals      85.0           8.6
1563   1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport    88.0           28.7
1568   1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension  100.0           67.9
1589   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  37.0           27.0
1654   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sites & Services   93.0           50.8
1656   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water & Sewerage  100.0           73.1
1660   1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum            78.8           2.9



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continrued)
(As of September 30), 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year                Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1714    1979  Brazil                             Rural Development   26.0             22,9
1720    1979  Brazil                             Urban Development   70.0             53.7
1721     1979  COPEL                             Power                109.0           72.6
1728    1979  Brazil                             Rural Development   40.0             33.4
1729    1979  Brazil                             Irrigation            28.0           15.8
1730    1979  Brazil                             Roads                1100           87.3
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                        Pollution Control   58.0             57.9
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                   Water Supply         130.0          100.7
1824    1980  CEEE                               Power                114.0          111.1
1839    1980  Brazil                             Urban Transport    159.0            154.6
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply              139.0          104.7
1867    1980  Brazil                             Education             32.0           30.4
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development   63.0             60.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                          Power                125.0          123.6
1924    1981  Brazil                             Rural Development   56.0             49.7
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                         Power                 54.0           51.9
1965    1981  EBTU                               Urban Transport       90.0           88.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply              180,0          153.2
1989    1981  Brazil                             Alcohol Devt.        250.0          247.1
2015    1981  Brazil                             Agriculture           29.0           25.5
2016    1981  Brazil                             Agriculture           60.0           56.7
2060    1982  Brazil                             Agriculture           67.0           63.0
2061    1982  Brazil                             Health                13.0           12.0
2062    1982  Brazil                             Highways             240.0          217.8
2116    1982  Brazil                             Agriculture           26.4           26.0
2138 /L  1982  ELETROBRAS                        Power                182.7          182.7
2163 /1 1982  Brazil                             Agriculture           26.4           26.4
2170 /1 1982  Brazil                             Urban Development  123.9            123.9
2177 /1 1982  Brazil                             Rural Development   42,7             42.7
2193 /1 1982  Brazil                             Urban Development    8.9              8.9
2196 /1 1982  CVRD                               Iron Ore             304,5          304.5
Total                                                 6,998.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                    991.0
*                      Total now outstanding                                 6,007.9
Amount sold                             45.8
of which has been repaid              45J5              0.3
Total now held by Bank                               6_,007.6
Total undisbursed                                                   3,401r9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page ) of 15
3.  STATZINT OF UC INVKfSlTUTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                         Amount in US$ million
Year                                            0 b 1 1 g o r                                       Typ  of Business                       Loans      Equity      Total
1957                    Sieseos do Srtail Cia. de Electricidado                                  Electrical Equipment                         2.00        -         2.00
1958                    Oliokraft, S. A. Celulose a Papal                                        Pulp and Paper                               1.70        -         1.20
1958                    D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                      Automotivs Part.                             0.45         -        0.45
1958                    Willym-Overland do Brazil, S. A. - Industria a Comercio                  Motor Vehicle.                               2.45        -         2.45
1959                    Cop-hia Mineircr  de Ciento Portland, S. A.                             Cexaet                                       1.20         -        1.00
1959                    Champion Celulose, S. A.                                                 Pulp                                         4.00         -        4.00
1966/1968/1972          Aos Villares, S. A.                                                      Steel                                        6.00        1.93      9.93
1966/1969               Papel e Celulos. Catarioen.e, S. A.                                      Pulp and Paper                               3.76        3.41      7.19
1967/1972               Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Cowrcio de Pertili.ante.                Fertili-ers                                  8.22       3.03      11.25
1969                    Petroqoisica Unins, S. A.                                                Petrochemicals                               5.50       2.88       8.39
1970                    Poliolefinas, S. A. Indastria e  coercio                                 Petrochemicals                               5.50       2.89       8.35
1971                    Ositeno, S. A. Itdostria e Coercio                                       Petrochemicalo                               4.60        1.44      6.04
1971                    Rio Grando - Conpanhia de Celulose do Sol                                Pulp                                         4.90         -        4.90
1972/1975/1981          Coapanhia do Ciento Naciona1 do Minas                                    Cemant                                     169.14       6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Companhia Sider-rgica da Cacbsare - COSIGUA                               Steel                                       76.97       11.22     88.19
1973                    Capital Mrket Development Fund - FUIMCAP                                 Capital Market Developaent                   5.00         -        5.00
1973/1978               Espresa do Dese-oolvimento do Mcursa.. Miner-is - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel MinIng and  efining                       85.00       8.34       95.34
1974                    Industrias Villereo, S. A.                                               Elevators and Indostril Equipment           6.00        -         6.00
1974                    Fabrica do Tecido. Tatu pe, S. A.                                        Testiles                                   31.00         -        31.00
1975/1979               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                         Csrbon Black                                 6.13       1.10       7.37
1975                    Oriteno Nordeote, S. A.                                                  Petrochemicals                              10.00        -        10.00
1976                    Sootislt  Indostria - Tteril do Nordeste, S. A.                          Textiles                                     6.45        1.00      7.45
1976/1980               Teo.oor S. A. - Toxtil Catarinense do  iordeste                          Textiles                                    16.20        -        16.20
1977                    FhM  S. A. Prodoctos Metalurgicos                                        Iron end Aloelomi   Coatings                20.00        -        20.00
1977                    Miner.sco Rio do Norte S. A.                                             Mining                                      15.00         -       15.00
1978                    Cisetrl Siderurgia S. A.                                                 Iron and Steel                               7.00        3.00     10.00
1979                    Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veiculos, S. A.                                Motor Vehicles                              60.00       5.27      65.27
1980                    Yer-ng do Nordeote S. A. - Ma1has                                        Ready-de Garsenrs                            2.00       -          2.00
1980                    Dende do Para S/A - Deopas. - Agricultura, Industris
e Comercio de Oleaginoas                                             Palo-Oil                                     3.50        1.00       4.50
1980                    Villsres Industries de Base S. A. - VIBASA                               Iron and Steel                               5.00         -        5.00
1980                    PYV  - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                             Chemicals and Petrochemicals                15.00        2.00     17.00
1980                    DestilarTi  Cianorte S. A.                                               Chemicals and Petrochemicals                  -         0.25       0.25
1980                    Sotave Amaonis  Ouisica e Mineral S/A                                    Fertiliers                                 16.00        4.00     20.00
1980                    Volisul Petroquialc-                                                     Chemicals and Petrochemicals                43.00        5.00     48.00
1981                    Brasilp-r                                                                Money sad Capital Mrkets                      -          1.50      1.50
1981                    Companhls Scoollelca de Agropecoaria - COBRAPE                           Fond and Pood Processing                     5.50        3.00      8.50
1981                    Triunfo                                                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                46.00        4.00     56.00
1982                    Cimeoto CAUE                                                             Cement and C.nst-oction Materials           40.00        5.00     45.00
1982                    Iochpe Agro Industrial S.A.                                              Money Capital Market                        30.00        0.45     30.45
1983                    Cia Siograndense de Participaqoe. (CYP)                                  Money Capital Morket                          --         0.72      0.72
Total Gross Conitmnts                                                                                    771.74       79.21    850.95
Les Cancellations, Terminations. Repayments sod Sales                                                   560.32       12.16    572.48
Total Coitents Nov Held by IFC                                                                           211.42      67.05    278.47
Total Undisbursed                                                                                        159.28       14.02    173.30
February 4, 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1982 1/
As of September 30, 1982, there were 57 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.  The project is nearing completion.  Procurement has been
completed. Four of the six generating units have been in service
since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981. A cost
overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Monso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and of
the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date:  April 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages.  Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Progress in implementation of
the enlarged project is satisfactory. However, there might be a need
to postpone the Closing Date to June, 1983 to complete disbursements.
Overall costs are within reviewed estimates. A local project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
*               progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is approaching completion. All project components,
except DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) and some state
highway rehabilitation works in Minas Gerais, are substantially
completed. Construction of the weighing stations has been
hindered by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left
the stations program without the necessary funds. The program
is being reformulated and is expected to be completed in late
1983.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of
price increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash
generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult international
credit markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-
term funds it needs. In light of this situation, a meeting in
WaQhlngLon is planned for late November to review with the
Government and CSN the progress being made in meeting the
commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking into
account the likely available internal and external resources in
that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress on
project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for CSN.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August.4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the
COSIPA project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios
according to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in
June 1982., Despite this, however, the project remains virtually
stopped and the company's financial position has continued to
deteriorate. This situation has arisen due to: delays in the
granting of price increases and the provision of equity funds;
lower cash generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult
international credit markets which have prevented COSIPA from
raising the long-term funds it needs. In light of this situation,
a meeting in Washington is planned for late November to review
with the Government and COSIPA the progress being made in meeting
the commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking
into account the likely available internal and external resources
in that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress
on project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for COSIPA.



- 29 -
ANNEX _1
Page 6 of 15
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983: The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
drop the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and
reallocated funds to the construction of civil engineering works
unforeseen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date
was postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on
production activities continue to improve substantially. The
rate of disbursements has risen sharply and about 95% of the
loan is now disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
costs in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment in train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but progress in recent months has been encouraging. A proposal for
project reformulation, including expansion into seven new munici-
palities is currently being considered.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states.  Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level.  Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was completed in
early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or
construction of 5,210 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision
of about US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional
financing of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical imple-
mentation of the project, which had reached 50% as of March 31, 1982,
is now progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan have
reached 53% as of September 30, 1982, and are expected to be completed
by the end of 1983.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of
incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily durinag 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Latest indications (10/15/82) are
that the necessary levels of counterpart funding and project
implementation are being sustained during 1982, and that the
project should be completed by about end-1982. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1983.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Except for a small portion (about 8%) of COELBA's subproject all
works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended. Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed
with the Government. The project has been progressing well in
very difficult economic conditions. The loan is expected to be
fully committed shortly. A third project is due to be appraised
in October/November 1982,



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
sufficient time to meet retention payments on equipment contracts.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.  This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A second, final post-
ponement of the closing date by 18 months to permit completion of
project activities including a program for further strengthening of
institutions responsible for marketing, farm management extension,
and community development, is being envisaged.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1982.
The plant has been completed and was formally inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date was postponed to
November 30, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants., Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%. The Closing Date was
postponed to December 31, 1982.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
9                  The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of hotel training centers.
The presidential decree approving the legal and financial definition
of SENAR was signed, which now permits this component to be fully
implemented. The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is experiencing difficulties because of inadequate funding
from the State and because of political problems. The Bank has
requested BNH to present a plan to complete works by the end of
1985. BNH and SABESP agreed to meet with the newly-elected govern-
ment to resolve the political and funding problems and present
solutions to the Bank by May 1983. Project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date:  October iv, i978; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983.
Financial and managerial problems created significant delays in
project implementation over the first two years, but the situation
improved markedly with a reorganization of project administration
and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will require
reorientation of management and agricultura:L development activities.
The state is currently undertaking a complete evaluation study,
which wilL include a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the
project and to extend the Closing Date.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs'caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily. The Closing
Date will be postponed by two years to December 31, 1984,



- 33 -
A!NNEX I I
Page 10 of 15
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-19RP, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in
the state of Parana is progressing well.  The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The Project is being reformulated to reflect current priorities.
Project completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 97%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October/November 1982. The anticipated cost to complete
the project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981/82. Partial exemption
to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions (12/28/81) are being
arranged by EMBRATER, on a state by state basis to prevent a serious
slow-down in project development. Hiring restrictions are only part
of the problem in some states however, mostly in the North and
Northeast, where lack of counterpart funding to pay additional
staff salaries is now the key issue. Administrative changes, due
to election results of November 15, 1982 could well cause some
delay in project execution during early 1983 until the new state
administrations become familiar with project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
and the execution of the education and water supply components are
approaching appraisal targets.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing ProDject: US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. Contracts for the last housing
scheme of the Project will be tendered at the end of October, 1982.
The Bank has approved a proposal that will offer a solution to the
problems which have caused slow progress in this project and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway.  Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983,
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices. The Closing Date
was postponed to January 31, 1983.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 mnillion loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components.  Extension services achieved very close to
first year targets and exceeded second and third year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Planned investments in the first four cities included in the project
have practically been completed, and it is now expected that all
investments will be completed within the.revised schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
(The loan's closing date was postponed from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1985). Two of the additional three cities incorporated
into the project last August were already appraised during October,
and the last city is expected to be appraised during the first
quarter of 1983. About 60% of the loan is expected to be disbursed
by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date:  February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds. Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to
the dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation
and drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been
installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.  The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have reached
US$22.7 million by the end of September 1982, which is in line with
appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, though the company is facing financial difficulties
which, if not resolved, could delay project completion.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about twelve months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during calendar years 1980 to 1982. The delay is expected to be made
up for during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule, which will constitute the basis for discus-
sion with the forthcoming supervision mission. A substantial impact
evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Previous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have slowed
project implementation such that some reformulation of project targets
is being considered. Subject to these constraints, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.  The project is proceeding slower than anticipated,
mainly due to funding delays and institutional problems. Some remedial
actions are being taken.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: -June 30, 1985.
Implementation of this project is about twelve months behind schedule.
Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project back to its
original schedule as a result of recent (July 1982) discussions held
in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progress-
ing satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up was delayed because of the late
receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
with over 300 beneficiaries of land redistribution and several
hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few months. Other
components have also progressed well, although limited execution
capacity has slowed progress in small-scale irrigation and water
supply, and delayed the establishment of the State Land Institute.
Overall, project administration is functioning well.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays occurred during 1982 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special arrange-
ments by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a case by case
basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN that, commencing
with CY83, there would be full allocation of essential counterpart
funding for the project.
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase:
Agriculture Project: US$67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure is proceeding faster
than initially assumed, but there have been some delays in transfer
of funds to local implementing agencies. There has been erratic
progress in environmental component and project coordination
structures, with the exception of Amerindian protection program
which has been progressing satisfactorily.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is pro-ceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
---into which the highway is divided. Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works
is good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes.  The situation should improve in 1983 with
the start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project; US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        12 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:   BNH, SWCs
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    January 1982
(d)  First mission to review project:   April 1982
(e)  Appraisal Mission:                    September 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:           January 28, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 30, 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  The Bank will review quarterly with BNH and the Government the
adequacy of level and the structure of rates charged by the SWCs
for their water and sewerage services (para. 35).
(b) All SWCs would be eligible to use Bank resources to finance water
supply and sewerage projects subject to compliance with selection
criteria acceptable to BNH and the Bank (para. 42).
(c) Because of substantial direct and indirect Bank investments in
the States of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, and the
need to maintain a balanced sector approach, Bank participation
in the three States combined would be limited to 45% of the
proposed loan amount (para. 42).
(d)  Subprojects would be eligible for Bank financing subject to
compliance of selection criteria acceptable to BNH and the Bank
(para. 43).
(e) BNH will onlend the Bank proceeds through onlending agreements
that include onlending conditions agreed with the Bank. The
signature of three onlending agreements by three SWCs, State
Banks and States would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
signature of loan agreements acceptable to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement for each subloan (para. 53).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
r  z   ~~2
(f)  To -educe the interval during which BNH would finance the Bank's
share of project costs with its own resources, BNH may request
the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from the loan
account into a Special Account to be opened in the Banco Central
do Brasil (para. 56).
(g)  Retroactive financing of up to US$15.0 million will be provided
for project expenditures incurred since January 1, 1983 provided
that the eligibility and selection criteria for project companies
and subprojects respectively have been met and the Bank's
procurement procedures have been followed (para. 56).



lORS 1694B
8RHIL
rruusS<~~~~~   7½K ~WATER SUJPPLY:: AIN  SWERME
PERCENT SR 'VICE LEVELS B  STATE
VENEZUELA            613                                         /38
2     URI4AM~
"  ~~J,     !~FRENQJN
.11          ~~GUIANA
COLOMBIA
RORAIMA'                                               A            QC&I
~~~~~  I /~~~~~~~~~ Z /n~ 
.- AMAPA --41
I'
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'N ~                                                                     K!47
-," ,'5u 4                                     F                                ,-~)F0d ;\  CS.a
/                               7        J+f  otrt      I f _DY    -1   \  Z MARANHAO   I
A M A    O  NA                    /   P AR
;                    '                       A, '                                 I GOAR /  RI  OR''ERDEX
(                                   5, /U  _                                \    IO SUL     RO ,R'NOD
A-  'El                      4                  2                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAIB 5
.1                                2       0      0 u      -    EA  I      I   j .u / SAO PR`AU_MBUQ6
A I R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eu'I A
~~~~~~~f                        t         t  _.:: :r,::S ::
ACEREU                                    M Ay--   ____ 0 
/        N-t           H I   A
33u~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                             ->        "fI  0 , tr  A G ; 0AW9Nl4tisib    
- pply  BOLIVIA   t MA [0        F    N ;     G ER A I_
-   7=-  *                  <K.,/  '  .      7/       1- -         A 
j  /SAC PAULO     '8
L...,..~~~~~~  t ~/RIO  jOE 
Sewerage         ~PARAGUAY           APS-r31
Stare Boundaries               SANT~A CATARINA   t.
ARGENTINA           DC) 5 L                                    6  260 3St'-F7o 0
)URUGUAY > 
SC'             s~~~o.                400                      0



