Document of                          I r       p, C
The World Bank                               FC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4229-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
February 28, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit           Cruzeiro
US$1.00            =    Cr$182.71 (July 1982)
US$1.00                 ORTN 0.0924
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH       National Housing Bank
COSAN     Superintendency of the Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
CTE       Loan Agreement between BNH and a State
CTN       Loan Agreement between BNH and a State Water Company
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EVG       Global Feasibility Study
FAE       State Water and Sewerage Fund
FGTS      Employee Indemnity Fund (BNH)
FINEST    BNH's financing to states for sanitation works
IFR       Internal Financial Rate of Return
NTL       National Tariff Law
ORTN      National Treasury Bond
OT        Technical Advisor
PAHO      Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA   National Sanitation Plan
PRODISAN BNH's Institutional Development Program for the SWCs
REFINAG   BNH's line of credit for water supply projects
REFINESG BNH's line of credit for sewerage projects
RTP       Subproject Feasibility Study
SFS       Sanitation Financing System
SOSAN     Regional Office of COSAN
SWC       State Water Companies
UPC       Monetary unit equivalent to an ORTN at the beginning of each
quarter.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . .      1
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            1. . . . .  . .  I
Sector Policies and Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
The National Sanitation Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
Past and Projected Sector Investments  . . . . . . . . . .        4
Institutional Development  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  5
Evaluation of the National Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
National Tariff Law. . . . . .                  . . .  . . .      6
Experience under Previous Loans and Current Strategy . . .        7
II.  THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES . . 0 .         . . . .  . .   8
The Borrower - BNH. .     .  .  .   ... .   . . . . . .     .*    8
The Beneficiaries - SWCs . . .  e. . .     .e . . . . . . . .    10
Audit. . .          . . .               Sf *. . .  .    * * *    12
III. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
Background  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .      12
Project Objectives . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . .      13
Project Concept  ....  .  .  .    ..............                 13
Selection Criteria ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..................   14
Service Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       .  . . . . .    15
Project Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   17
Status of Project Preparation. . . . . . .   . . . . . . . 17
Project Supervision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
&viroamental Aspects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Emilio Rodriguez, William Roach and Emmanuel Mbi (IBRD), and Jose
Padrao and Marcial Gil (consultants), who visited Brazil from September 10
to October 10, 1982. This report was prepared by Messrs. Rodriguez, Roach
and Mbi.
This document has a restnrictqd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iii -
Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
The Borrower - BNH . . .  .i.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .    20
Past and Present Finances  ... .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
Future Finances .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
The Beneficiaries - SWCs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
1981-82 Financial Performance and Current Position . . . . .   22
Future Finances              ...24
Financing Plan ..                                               25
Monitoring Indicators           .. .26
V.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Introduction   ..26
Least Cost Analysis.. . . . . .                                 26
Economic Rates of Return and Marginal Cost . . . . . . . . .   27
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact . . . . . . .   28
Affordability of Project Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Project  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . .   30
List of Annexes
1.  Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage . . . . .   33
2.  BNH and COSAN Organization Charts. . . . . . . .       . .   .   34
3. Institutional Overview of SWCs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
4. Credit Lines under PLANASA.                                      38
5.  Subproject Selection Criteria. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
6.  Detailed Cost Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
7.  List of Conditions for Onlending Agreements  . . . . . . . .   51
8.  New Sector Investment 1983-87 .                    . . . . .    53
9.  Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54
10.  Disbursement Procedures  ... .  .  .  .  . ........  .  .   .    56
11.  Schedule of Disbursements .  . . . . . . . . . . .. . .         59
12.  BNH Financial Statements .      .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   60
13.  Summary Financial Data of SWCs     . . . . . . . . .  . . .     62
14.  Monitoring Indicators  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .  .  .    .   72
15.  Economic and Social Analysis ... .  .  .  .  .    ..... .  .    .   79
16.  Population Benefitted, Urban Poverty Impact and  . . . . . .
Affordability .        .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  87
17. Project File              ..89
MAP
IBRD - No. 16948  Water Supply and Sewerage
Percent Service Levels by State 1983-1987



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01       Brazil's total population, as reported in the 1970 and 1980 Cen-
suses, grew at an annual rate of 2.5%, from 93 to 119 million.  The urban
population grew from 52 to 80 million, or at 4.4% p.a. In 1980, 67% of the
population  lived  in urban areas.   The Brazilian organization of urban
areas, based on administrative/political considerations, extends to small
communities which in many other countries would be considered as rural.
Population projections for 1981-1990 show an urban growth rate of 3.5%
p.a., reaching 113 million at the end of the period.  The regions with the
fastest growing urban population are expected to be the North and Center-
West (over 5% p.a.), followed by the Northeast (3.8%), the Southeast
(3.2%), and the South (2.6%).
1.02        Water supply service levels increased notably between 1970 and
1980. The share of total population connected to public services rose from
30% to 51%.  The increase in sewerage service levels was also significant,
though limited to selected metropolitan areas.  The percentage of popula-
tion connected to sewerage rose from 11% to 24% (paras. 1.03 and 1.04).
The most complete and consistent sets of data on service levels are in the
Censuses, which group services according to quality standards.   For the
purposes of this report, service levels refer to houses connected to a
public system, even though individual systems are a viable alternative in
many areas.
1.03      Based on 1978 Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) statistics,
Brazil ranked eleventh among 21 countries in the region in terms of water
services coverage and thirteenth in sewerage services.  The total popula-
tion with water connections increased from 28 million people in 1970 to 59
million people in 1980. The service level in urban areas rose from 51% to
74%.   The  rural  service  level remained constant  at about one million
people, or 3% of the rural population. This apparent stagnation is partly
due to a more inclusive definition of urban areas in the 1980 census. Some
states actually experienced a decline in the rural service level, perhaps
indicating that well-served villages were reclassified from rural to
urban.  Water supply service levels in 1980 varied widely by regions: in
the North the level was 69%; in the Northeast, 59%; in the Southeast, 82%;
in the South, 75%; and in the Center-West, 57%. The states with the lowest
service levels in 1970 experienced the greatest advance during the decade.
1.04       Total population connected to sewerage increased from 10 million
people in 1970 to 28 million people in 1980.  The service level in urban
areas rose from 20% to 35%.  In 1980, 20% of the urban population had sep-
tic tanks and 36%, some other form of sanitation. Rural areas continued to



-2 -
be poorly served: 56% of the population had no sanitation systems and the
remaining population had rudimentary sanitation facilities. Sewerage serv-
ice levels in 1980 varied widely by region: in the North the level was 8%;
in the Northeast, 9%; in the Southeast, 54%; in the South, 18%; and in the
Center-West, 16%.
1.05       In 1980, Brazilian life expectancy at birth was 63 years and the
infant mortality rate was 77 per 1,000 live births. 1/ Analysis of Sao
Paulo data for 1950-79 concluded that income was the more important deter-
minant of infant mortality up to 1974. But after 1974, the 40% increase in
water supply service levels was estimated to have been the major cause of a
27% drop in the infant mortality rate. 2/ Enteritis and diahrreal diseases
constitute the major sanitation-related cause of mortality. These diseases
together with cholera, typhoid and dysentery accounted in 1977 for 28% of
all deaths in Maceio and 23% in Natal (Rio Grande do Norte). Their contri-
bution to the death rate was highest in the capitals of the Northeast (10%
to 28%) and the North (9% to 23%) and lowest in the South (2% to 11%).
Sanitation improvements in the North and Northeast can thus be expected to
provide relatively high benefits in terms of public health.
Sector Policies and Institutions
1.06      During the 1960s, a scarcity of financial resources and the weak-
ness of sector institutions caused the water supply and sanitation sector
in Brazil to lag behind other countries at comparable stages of develop-
ment.   Toward the end of this period,  the Government created the Banco
Nacional da Habitacao (BNH), and its major source of funds, the Fondo de
Garantia do Tempo de Servico (FGTS).   In 1968, the Sistema Financeiro de
Saneamento (SFS) was created and the first sanitation investments by BNH
were made. BNH became the central agency in the sector; revolving invest-
ment funds (FAEs) were set up at the state level and State Water Companies
(SWCs)  were  created.    The  Plano  Nacional  de  Saneamento  (PLANASA)  was
launched in 1970 and has remained basically unchanged since its creation,
although its operational targets have been modified and new programs for
small communities and the SWCs' institutional development have been added.
1.07      In 1978, PLANASA coverage was estimated at 70% of the urban popu-
lation served with water supply and 65% of the population with sewerage
services.   By 1981,  65% of all cities with over 5,000 inhabitants  had
joined PLANASA.   Most municipalities not joining PLANASA are relatively
well-off localities which do not want to relinquish control of their sys-
tems to the SWCs.   As the need for new investments grows, many of these
localities will probably join PLANASA as it represents an attractive source
of financing for sanitation investments.
1.08      The Ministry of Health operates in the sector through the Public
Health Service Foundation with responsibility for 600 water systems in
small towns, and a program (PIASS) for the promotion of sanitation activi-
ties in dispersed rural populations.
1/  World Development Report, 1982, The World Bank.
2/  Carlos Augusto Monteiro, "Contribuicao para o Estudo do Significado da
Evolucao do Coeficiente de Mortalidade Infantil do Municipio de Sao
Paulo nas tres ultimas Decadas (1950-1979)", Revista de Saude Publica,
16: 7-18, 1982.



-3-
The National Sanitation Plan
1.09       PLANASA is essentially a national system for planning and finan-
cing activities in the sanitation sector.   BNH is the central institution
and the main source of investment  funds.   It allocates resources among
states, sets national goals and guidelines, and supervises and assists the
states as necessary.  Each state has its own SWC and FAE which channel BNH
and state funds to individual projects, execute investments and operate
systems.   All funds flow through an appointed financial intermediary in
each state, generally the state Bank, which acts as agent for both the FAE
and BNH.   Project preparation and execution are supervised by technical
agencies (OTs), appointed by BNH in each state.   BNH maintains   regional
offices (SOSAN) which supervise local activities and a central staff which
plans and supervises on a national level (COSAN).   Through PLANASA, na-
tional guidelines have been set for project design, economic evaluation of
projects and procurement.   A national  tariff law has also been enacted
(para.  1.18).   PLANASA's  targets  and operational goals act as a common
frame of reference against which individual investments may be judged and
which guide BNH's programming.   Aside  from providing new financial re-
sources and helping sector institutions to become more efficient, PLANASA
also promotes financial cross-subsidization.   At the state level, the ap-
plication of the same tariff in most localities results in a subsidy from
larger, richer cities to smaller, poorer towns.   BNH's terms for invest-
ments in small communities are softer than those for larger towns.  At the
national level, the cross-subsidy is achieved through differential interest
rates that vary in relation to the revenue of the state. Detailed informa-
tion on PLANASA is in the Project File.
1.10          Each S4C prepares annually a global feasibiiity report (EVG)
which sets forth service level objectives, construction schedules and a fi-
nancing program for a five-year period.  On the basis of these studies and
each state's commitment to provide one-half of the financing for the in-
vestment program, BNH enters into PLANASA agreements with each state. Each
SWC selects subprojects which are included in the EVG for BNH considera-
tion.   The SWC prepares feasibility studies (RTPs), including an analysis
of alternatives, for approval by the OT. COSAN formally reviews only about
5% of the RTPs presented by the SWCs.  The SWC then prepares final designs
under BNH financing.  After a cycle of review and approval similar to the
process mentioned above, BNH signs a contract (CTN or CTE) with the SWC to
finance the works. Since 1981, BNH has been using guidelines for economic
analysis of subprojects and selection criteria for all subprojects financed
under Bank loans (para. 3.05).
1.11         Brazilian authorities have set new and ambitious  goals  for
PLANASA in the 1980s.   The primary goals are to provide 90% of the urban
population with water supply and 65% with sewerage by the end of the de-
cade.   In addition, previous secondary goals have been re-emphasized and
new ones set:  the investment program for small communities is to be revi-
talized; SWC management is to be improved; research and institutional deve-
lopment will be emphasized; and further economies of scale will be sought.
A new emphasis on environmental protection is planned; and priority will be



- 4 -
given to sewerage and pollution control projects in major metropolitan
areas.  For financial reasons, basic sanitation projects are to be done in
stages and unaccounted-for water is to be reduced. 3/ Based on population
projections (para. 1.01), PLANASA's 1990 goals imply that 103 million
people will have to be served with water supply and 74 million with sewer-
age. Thus, during the period 1981-1990, 44 million additional people will
have to receive water services and 46 million, sewerage services.  These
amounts are, respectively, 1.4 times and 2.6 times the incremental popula-
tion served during the 1970s.
Past and Projected Sector Investments
1.12      Past and required sector investments are presented in Table 1.1:
Table 1.1: PAST AND REQUIRED INVESTMENT (expressed in 1982 US$ million)
Water Supply                          Sewerage
Region        1970s    1980s    % Change           1970s    1980s    % Change
North             86      278          223            29       593       1,936
Northeast      1,387    1,433            3           514    3,132          508
Southeast     3,847    2,014           (48)        1,830    3,948          116
South            557      566            2           129    1,688        1,210
Center-West      358      673           88             4    1,073       25,700
Total       6,235    4,964           (20)        2,506   10,434          316
During the 1970s, water supply investment totaled about US$6.2 billion.
The cost per incremental person served was US$187.  Total sewerage invest-
ment was about US$2.5 billion, and the cost per incremental population
served was US$145.   To achieve the 1990 service level targets, estimated
investments (in 1982 prices) of US$4.9 billion for water supply and US$10.4
billion for sewerage would be required.   Unit cost per additional person
served with water supply is expected to decrease in the 1980s to US$115 due
to available production capacity.  Unit cost per additional person receiv-
ing sewerage services is expected to increase to US$230 as more systems re-
quiring treatment are built.
1.13        PLANASA annual investments are projected to remain almost con-
stant at a level of US$1.4 billion in 1982 prices. The PLANASA investment
allocated to sewerage works also remains constant during the period 1983-87
at US$450 million per year or 25% of PLANASA investment.   Average annual
1982-85 funding of the sewerage subsector (US$570 million) is below the
annual investment levels needed (over US$1.0 billion) to reach the 1990
sewerage targets. Funding of the water supply subsector (annual average of
US$950 million over 1982-85) is above the annual investment levels needed
(over US$480 million) to reach the 1990 water supply goals, which
3/ Minister Mario David Andreazza, As Novas Metas do PLANASA, September
1981.



could allow resources to be shifted to sewerage.  Flood control and drain-
age investment is projected to increase in constant 1982 prices from US$139
million in 1982 to US$210 million in 1985.  Based on preliminary BNH in-
vestment allocations by state, investment priorities are projected to shift
from the Southeast region to regions with lower service levels.  The per-
centage of PLANASA water supply and sewerage investment allocated to the
Southeast should drop from 59% in 1983 to 47% in 1985. However, a further
shift of funds to the lesser-served regions (40%-Southeast, 60%-other re-
gions during the 1980s) is required if 1990 regional service targets are to
be met. Detailed information on sector investment is in the Project File.
1.14      PLANASA's investments during 1968-81 were financed by BNH (42%),
the FAEs (40%), and grants and developers' contributions (18%).  In addi-
tion, BNH provided supplemental loans (FINEST 1 and 2) to assist the states
in meeting their contributions to the FAEs.  FAEs are funded by state con-
tributions and debt service payments on previous loans to the SWCs.   The
maximum state contribution is 5% of its revenues (mainly sales tax). When
the state contribution reaches 3% of its revenues, the state may obtain
FINEST loans to make up the shortfall.   Investment in small communities
(less than 5,000 inhabitants) is mostly financed by state government
grants.
1.15     PLANASA's projected investments for 1983-90 will continue to  have
the same sources of financing; however, with the attainment of the National
Tariff Law (NTL) objectives beginning in 1983, the SWCs should generate a
share of their investment needs (para. 4.09).  Debt service repayments on
past FAE loans to the SWCs would increase allowing the states to reduce
direct financing.
Institutional Development
1.16      PLANASA has also been expanded with a special program for instit-
utional development (PRODISAN).  Key institutional and human resource pro-
blems of the SWCs were identified and specific projects have been establi-
shed. Selected SWCs are developing technical assistance which would be ap-
plied in other SWCs (para. 2.12). Under PRODISAN, BNH plays a coordinating
role and provides financial and technical resources. PAHO and the Bank as-
sist PRODISAN.   During 1981-85, BNH expects to execute through PRODISAN
over 500 technical assistance projects in planning, technical and commer-
cial operations, and finance and administration at a cost of US$306
million.
Evaluation of the National Plan
1.17          The overall policy framework and investment programming of
PLANASA are satisfactory.  National policies, goals and guidelines estab-
lished through PLANASA provide a common reference for the evaluation of the
SWCs' investment programs and individual projects and assist in the alloca-
tion of BNH's investment resources.   Investment planning is decentralized
to the state level.   BNH revises and consolidates  the SWCs'  investment
plans to develop the overall PLANASA investment program in accordance with



- 6-
the availability of resources. The Federal Government limited sector in-
vestment in 1982 to control inflation.   Limits have to be relaxed in the
near future if 1990 PLANASA goals are to be met.  The timing and amount of
the PLANASA investment program appear feasible. The imbalance in the allo-
cation of resources to less developed regions is partially being addressed
in the 1982-85 investment program; however, imbalance in the allocation to
sewerage is not addressed (para. 1.13). BNH plans to correct the imbalance
after 1985.
National Tariff Law
1.18       Water supply and sewerage tariffs are governed by the National
Tariff Law and implementing regulations introduced in 1978.   The NTL was
designed with Bank participation.   The objectives of the Law are to:  (a)
relate tariffs to the cost of services; (b) make services affordable to the
low income population; and (c) ensure the financial viability of the SWCs.
Under the legislation, the SWCs' revenues should cover the sum of operating
costs, depreciation and debt service.   The maximum allowed rate of return
is 12% of operating investments.  Regulations provide for gradual compli-
ance with the NTL objectives with full compliance scheduled for 1983.
Nineteen of the SWCs should comply in 1983; seven SWCs will require addi-
tional time to comply (paras. 4.09 and 4.10).  Full attainment of the NTL
objectives would permit a high level of cost recovery in the sector in com-
parison with other countries. Grants and subsidies should be limited. The
small communities program and subprojects meeting least cost and poverty
criteria (para. 3.05) would continue to receive grant financing.   Capital
contributions to the SWCs by the states should be eliminated when the NTL
objectives are met by the SWCs.   Interest charges on foreign borrowings
would continue to be subsidized because of the social nature of the sector
and BNH's operations (para. 4.04).
1.19        BNH received authority in 1982 to set tariffs for the sector
within general guidelines established by the Government (5% annual increase
in tariffs in real terms in 1982 and 1983). Because of high inflation, the
government and BNH have agreed that tariff levels should be adjusted on a
quarterly basis.  Tariff adjustments are reviewed jointly with the Bank.
BNH's performance in the analysis of the SWCs' tariff proposals has im-
proved considerably and now includes measures to enhance revenues and re-
duce costs.   Assurances were obtained during Loan negotiations that the
Bank, the Government and BNH will continue to jointly review tariff levels
on a quarterly basis.
1.20       The SWGs' tariff structures include residential, commercial, in-
dustrial and public consumption categories. All tariff structures are pro-
gressive with maximum residential charges per m3 ranging from 1.6 to 4.7
times the minimum charge.  Most companies have uniform state-wide tariffs.
Average water tariffs are relatively high. With the exception of the SWCs
in Rio de Janeiro and the Federal District, water tariffs range from
US$0.15/m3 to US$0.32/m3.  Sewerage charges are generally set at 80% to
100% of the water bill, although in some SWCs the charge is 60% or less,
In general, the tariff structures are adequate; however, improvements are



- 7 -
being made (lower minimum consumption block, reduction in consumption
levels at which excess charges are assessed, increase in sewerage charge to
100% of water billed, development of rates for sewage collection and treat-
ment). A consultant, employed through PAHO, is now reviewing the adequacy
of the tariff structures.   A study on rates for sewage collection and
treatment services under Loan 1525-BR has been completed.   Agreement was
reached during Loan negotiations upon a plan to implement the recommenda-
tions of such study and new rates for sewage collection and treatment
services.
Experience under Previous Loans and Current Strategy
1.21        The Bank has made loans amounting to US$769 million for nine
water supply and sewerage projects in Brazil.   Basic data, including cur-
rent status of each operation, are summarized in Annex 1.  Four completed
operations, in the states of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, achieved the main
project objectives, despite substantial delays attributed to lack of ex-
perience, inadequate institutional capabilities of the SWCs, failure of the
states to provide timely counterpart financing, and inadequate project pre-
paration. Current operations are progressing well except for the Sao Paulo
Sewage Treatment Project (Loan 1525-BR) where major project components have
been halted due to inadequate funding from the State and political pro-
blems.   BNH and SABESP (the executing agency) have agreed to meet with
newly elected government officials to resolve the current political impasse
and funding problems and present alternative solutions in May 1983.  The
Bank will then decide on the reinitation of the affected components, or the
cancellation of the respective portion of the Loan proceeds.  Execution of
the Third Minas Gerais Project (Loan 1850-BR) should b-e completed by the
end of 1984, as estimated at appraisal.  The Southern States Project (Loan
1823-BR) is scheduled for completion at the end of 1984, two years later
than the appraisal estimate.   Problems causing delays have been overcome
and the disbursement pace has accelerated. The institutional capabilities
of the SWCs under the Northeast (Loan 1656-BR) and Multistate (Loan
1970-BR) Projects are weaker than those under the other Bank operations.
This situation, together with recent BNH investment limitations (para.
1.17) and election year grant financing of otherwise eligible subprojects
in some states, has resulted in slow project execution and loan disburse-
ments.   Project implementation problems have been substantially resolved
under Loan 1656-BR, but continue under 1970-BR.  A mid-term review of the
latter project is scheduled for August 1983. Despite these problems, pro-
gress on implementing the many hundreds of subprojects by the 14 SWCs has
been impressive, reflecting the competence and continuity of Brazilian
sector management. As of December 31, 1982, 70% of prior Bank loans under
execution had been committed and 32%, disbursed.
1.22      Bank participation accounted for about 10% of PLANASA investment
in 1971-82.   In addition,  the Bank has played an important role in the
strengthening of the sector, in particular: (a) the development of a uni-
form accounting system for the SWCs; (b) the preparation and enactment of
the NTL and the implementation of tariff increases on a quarterly basis;



- 8 -
(c) the decentralization of BNH's project preparation and supervision acti-
vities to regional offices and technical agents; (d) the standardization of
the SWCs' procedures and information systems; and (e) the adoption by BNH
of basic criteria for economic analysis of subprojects. The Bank has also
fostered the growing participation of BNH in the Bank's appraisal and su-
pervision activities including procurement.
1.23      The increased maturity of Brazilian institutions makes it appro-
priate to pursue broader goals through sector lending. The Bank would help
consolidate the actions and reforms initiated through its on-going projects
geared at developing sector institutions, policies and operational proce-
dures.  Contributions made under previous operations would be extended to
all states.  Eligibility criteria for the SWCs to participate in the pro-
ject will be introduced  (para.  3,04).   Project selection criteria have
been improved.   Further improvements will include guidelines to determine
appropriateness of low cost, non-conventional sanitation alternatives as a
means to increase access to sanitation (para. 3.06). A recently initiated
study focusing on the rural, solid waste and pollution control subsectors
would form the basis for policy discussions with the Government. The Bank
would also continue its review and dialogue on tariffs, the institutional
strengthening of BNH and the allocation of sector resources. To complement
the series of sector loans envisaged in support of PLANASA, the Bank would
consider project loans to assist the three largest SWCs (in Minas Gerais,
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo) which must cope with particularly severe re-
quirements for water supply and sanitation arising from rapid industriali-
zation and urban growth. The proposed sector loan would finance the prepa-
ration of the first of such projects (para. 3.03 (d)).
II. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
The Borrower - BNH
2.01       As in previous operations, BNH would be the Borrower under the
proposed loan,  BNH is a government-owned bank, established in 1964.  BNH
is administratively and financially independent and reports to the Ministry
of Interior. Its lending activities are concentrated in low-cost housing,
urban development and sanitation.
2.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors and an Executive Com-
mittee,  The Board is composed of the Executive Committee plus nine coun-
selors.  The Executive Committee is chaired by the President and includes
the seven directors of BNH's Operating Departments  (Annex 2).   Four of
BNH's directorates are in charge of different housing and urban development
programs (including sanitation), and the remaining are responsible for
planning, administration and finance, and commercial operations.  BNH-Bank
relations are channelled through a technical advisory unit attached to the
Presidency.   Responsibility for decisions on routine matters is delegated
to regional Credit Committees.   BNH's accounting is computerized and re-
liable.   Standard financial statements following generally accepted ac-
counting principles are produced in a timely manner (para. 2.15).  Finan-
cial planning is satisfactory. Four year budgets are revised annually and



- 9 -
submitted to the Federal Government for approval.   Beginning in 1982, the
Federal Government has placed limits on BNH's investments as part of its
program to reduce inflation (Chapter IV).
2.03       The Operations Division of the Sanitation Finance System (COSAN)
was created in 1967, and is responsible for implementing PLANASA.   COSAN
coordinates project implementation, acts as the technical and financial
controller for the SWCs and proposes regulations for the sector.   COSAN
studies and proposes to the BNH Board terms for BNH and FAE loans, and
establishes tariffs for the SWCs. COSAN has a director, an assistant di-
rector,  three  department  chiefs  and  57  staff  members,  mostly  profes-
sionals. Some of COSAN's activities have been decentralized since 1976 to
its 26 regional offices (SOSAN).  Regional office functions include moni-
toring loan agreements between BNH and the SWCs, approving disbursements,
up-dating project execution and disbursement schedules, monitoring the per-
formance of the FAEs and the OTs, and reviewing the SWC's operations. The
OTs, highly technical institutions under contract with BNH, carry out most
project supervision including the monitoring of the effective use of pro-
curement guidelines (para. 3.13).
2.04        COSAN has performed satisfactorily overall, but some areas need
to be strengthened.   The  Bank and BNH agreed under Loans  1823-BR and
1970-BR to carry out a technical assistance program to COSAN. The program
comprises two stages:  (a) identification of institutional weaknesses with
corresponding recommendations; and (b) implementation of the recommenda-
tions.  Work will cover the areas of information, project preparation and
planning, supervision of project execution, and operational control of the
SWCs.  BNH decided to use PAHO as its consultant for this program.  Start-
up was delayed until a contract between BNH and PAHO was signed in December
1981.   Since then, the program manager and the BNH counterpart have been
appointed and consultants for the institutional analysis of COSAN have been
hired.   Studies started in October 1982.  Consultants' recommendations on
BNH's monitoring of the operations of the SWCs were presented to BNH in
December 1982. Recommendations for the other areas should be produced dur-
ing the first quarter of 1983 in accordance with contractual dates. Agree-
ment was reached between the Bank and BNH during Loan negotiations on the
recommendations made under the technical assistance program for the moni-
toring of the SWCs by BNH, and on a schedule for implementing the recommen-
dations.  Also, BNH agreed to complete the technical assistance program by
September 30, 1984.   Assurances were also provided for the periodic ex-
change of views on the progress made under the technical assistance pro-
gram.  BNH agreed under the Multistate Project to make semi-annual field
supervisions of each project SWC, and to submit supervision reports to the
Bank. COSAN has not fully complied with the reporting requirements. COSAN
sends, however, specialized staff to the SWCs to concentrate on specific
issues and relies on regional offices (SOSAN) and technical agencies (OTs)
for supervision. The Bank and BNH have recently agreed on a new format for
progress reports and a supervision program for 1982-83.   Assurances were
obtained during Loan negotiations that BNH will provide efficient and
timely project supervision and timely submit semi-annual progress reports
to the Bank (para. 3.16).



- 10
The Beneficiaries - SWCs
2.05      The 26 SWCs would be the beneficiaries and executing agencies for
subprojects financed under the proposed Loan, provided they comply with
eligibility and selection criteria agreed upon during Loan negotiations
(paras. 3.04-3.06).   All SWCs are owned by their state governments.  Each
has a board of directors appointed by the state governor for a period of
four years. The president of the board of directors is the chief executive
officer.   Each of the other directors is the working head of one of the
operational departments.  The boards are, in most cases, composed of qua-
lified, experienced professionals. The SWCs are headquartered in the state
capitals and are responsible for services in the capital city and up to
hundreds of small- or medium-size cities. The SWCs included in the project
have signed PLANASA agreements, have ongoing projects financed by BNH/FAE
and have completed EVGs.
2.06       Although procedures and operations have been standardized under
the long-term assistance of PAHO, the quality of management and organiza-
tion among the SWCs is uneven.  Organizational structures in all SWCs have
departments for engineering, operations, administration, commercial, and
finances and accounting.   Organizational structures are considered appro-
priate. An institutional analysis of each SWC is summarized in Annex 3.
2.07      Compliance with subloan covenants by the 14 SWCs included in the
Bank's current projects has been fair.  Exceptions refer to delays in sub-
miting proposals for sewage collection and treatment tariffs (SABESP), sub-
mission of EVGs (all SWCs in 1981, as new a format was being introduced),
establishment of internal audit units (para. 2.14), and tariffs (five SWCs
in 1982 - para. 4.07). The Bank will continue to work closely with BNH and
the SWCs on compliance with Loan covenants.  BNH's progress reports to the
Bank will include a review of compliance with covenants (para. 3.16).
2.08       Techinical operations and maintenance of existing systems are ge-
nerally satisfactory. Many SWCs, however, have difficulties operating dis-
tant systems, which may be up to 2,000 km away from headquarters. Commer-
cial organization and procedures are adequate.  Service regulations are in
force and billings and collections are, for the most part, computerized.
In most SWCs meters are read monthly and most consumers are billed within
15 days of the reading.   Collections are made by banks and SWC offices.
Sales in accounts receivable range from 1.2 to 4.8 months; the average is
2.3 months.   Consumer files and billing and collection performance can be
further improved. To this end, a new integrated commercial system is being
tested for use by all SWCs (para. 2.12 (e)). Low levels of both production
and consumption metering (average 40%) result in unreliable assessments of
unaccounted-for water (between 10-60%), and make cross-subsidization
through tariff structures difficult.   The project provides for a substan-
tial increase of production and consumption metering through specific sub-
projects (para. 2.12 (f)).
2.09      Human resources administration needs to be improved.  The number
of employees per thousand connections in the SWCs varies from 3.3 to 15.1.



- 11 -
Personnel costs, on average, account for over 60% of the SWCs' operating
costs; personnel turnover in the SWCs ranges from 1% to 13%.  To address
these problems, the SWCs are implementing personnel management systems, as
covenanted under Loan 1970-BR, that define qualifications, functions, re-
sponsibilities, possibilities for advancement, and salaries. Training pro-
grams, including management development seminars, are being developed
(para. 2.12 (h)) with assistance from the Brazilian Association of Sanitary
Engineers.
2.10       The planning process is satisfactory.   The SWCs and the state
governments establish priorities for the extension of water supply and
sewerage services based on assesed needs in the communities.   Using these
assessments, the SWC prepares demand projections, service levels targets,
investment schedules and financial projections in a standarized EVG format
(para.  1.10).   The EVG format has been progressively improved.   All SWCs
completed the 1983 version by September 1982 on the basis of guidelines
prepared by the SWC of Parana and BNH.   The format is deemed to require
only minor changes.
2.11      Engineering studies, design and supervision of works are executed
by competent consultants. The SWC engineering departments, with the advice
and control of the OTs, review designs and monitor construction.  Projects
are usually implemented on schedule, and project programming and control
procedures are now being strengthened.
2.12       PRODISAN is administered by COSAN and partially financed by the
Bank.   PRODISAN has assisted the SWCs in identifying their institutional
weaknesses and preparing their own technical lssistan .e programs.  In addi-
tion, PRODISAN has recently drawn on the expertise of the SWCs to develop
pilot technical assistance projects to address common constraints identi-
fied in the areas of (a) EVG, (b) program budget, (c) commercial opera-
tions, (d) consumer files, (e) billing and collection, (f) unaccounted-for
water, (g) management of fixed assets, and (h) human resources administra-
tion and training.  The experience will, in turn, be transferred gradually
to all SWCs.   Because of the difficulties  involved in the execution of
these pilot projects and the different degree of managerial capacity in the
SWCs, BNH has decided to concentrate its efforts on a selected number of
SWCs and projects.   This approach was discussed with BNH during appraisal
and found practical.   During Loan negotiations agreement was obtained on
the pilot technical assistance projects which should be given priority and
on a schedule for implementing these projects in the SWCs. Assurances were
also obtained that on-lending agreements with the SWCs will provide for
implementation timetables for their technical assistance programs.
2A13       Al  SWCs use the ur_fo-. accounting system introduced by BNH in
1976.  The system is satisfactory, although its reliability needs to be im-
proved.  Results are usually available within two months after closing of
the accounting period  (calendar year reporting).   Traditional financial
statements are produced routinely. Cost accounting is at an early stage of
implementation, but large SWCs have included the establishment of cost ac-
counting systems in their institutional development programs.   Financial



- 12 -
control systems are adequate with the SWCs preparing and using annual bud-
gets to control expenditures.  Program budgeting is to be introduced  in
the SWCs (para.  2.12 (b)).   All SWCs have computerized their accounting
systems.   The quality of data processing services  is fair,  but varies
widely among the SWCs.   Generally,  the states require the SWCs to use
government-run service bureaus for at least a portion of their computing
needs. Computing activities are the most significant category of the SWCs'
operating costs after personnel and energy. BNH is now completing a survey
of existing hardware, applications and costs in order to achieve the pro-
gressive standardization of equipment, improve performance and reduce
costs.
2.14       About one-half of the SWCs have internal audit departments.  The
complexity of the SWCs requires the prompt establishment of internal audit
offices in all SWCs. Establishment of internal audit units in ten SWCs was
covenanted under previous Bank loans.  At year-end 1982, audit departments
had been created in five of these SWCs.  Assurances were obtained from BNH
that internal audit offices will be established in all project SWCs by
December 31, 1984, staffed at levels satisfactory to the Bank and BNH, and
maintained thereafter.
Audit
2.15       The SWCs retain qualified external auditors who must be regis-
tered with BNH. External auditors qualified or disclaimed opinions on the
1981 financial statements of nine SWCs because of problems with accounts
receivable and/or fixed assets accounting. The project would support meas-
ures to address these deficiencies (para. 2.12 (c)-(g)).   BNH's external
auditor is Mario Rocha Auditores Asociados, a large, respected firm with
offices in all major Brazilian cities. The firm issued an unqualified opi-
nion on BNH's 1981 financial statements. Assurances were obtained from BNH
during negotiations that:   (a) accounts and financial statements for BNH
and the SWCs for each fiscal year, starting with fiscal year 1983, will be
audited by independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, and in accord-
ance with generally accepted auditing standards; and (b) certified copies
of the audited financial statements and audit report together with a state-
ment on compliance with the Bank's financial covenants will be submitted to
the Bank by April 30 for BNH and May 31 for the SWCs of each subsequent
year. BNH's external auditor should also express an opinion on statements
of expenditures used to support claims for disbursements and the adequacy
of associated internal control (para. 3.22).
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01       The sector loan follows up previous Bank operations which began
in 1971.   These operations have permitted the Bank to gradually move to
sector lending.  The Bank has nurtured sector financial viability and the
institutional capability of BNH and the SWCs to plan and execute PLANASA



- 13 -
investments (para.  1.22).   The project,  to be executed in 1983-1987, is
designed to meet priority needs for water supply, sewerage and pollution
control in Brazil's urban areas. Four Bank missions assisted BNH with pro-
ject identification and preparation since the Government requested Bank
participation in mid-1981.
Project Objectives
3.02      The main project objectives are to:
(a)   improve  environmental  and  health  conditions  in  urban  areas
through the extension of water and sewerage services mostly to
low income areas, and the provision of sewage treatment where
pollution problems are more pressing;
(b)   support economic growth with a wide distribution of benefits by
providing adequate infrastructure, emphasizing the use of low
cost technology;
(c)   promote the efficient utilization of investment resources within
the sector through improving the capacity of BNH and the SWCs to
plan, appraise and execute projects and through the achievement
of sector financial viability; and
(d)   help optimize the use of existing infrastructure and human re-
sources through institutional development and training.
Project Concept
3.03      The proposed project, represents about 60% of the new PLANASA in-
vestment commitments for 1983-84 or about 14% of total planned new invest-
ment during the implementation period 1983-87.  It would consist of: (a) a
group of water supply and sewerage subprojects meeting agreed upon selec-
tion criteria (para. 3.06); (b) engineering and consulting services as re-
quired for design and construction supervision; (c) institutional develop-
ment programs for the SWCs,4/ including consulting services and equipment;
and (d) consulting services for the preparation of a sanitation project for
the metropolitan area of Rio de Janeiro.   Almost 80% of the Rio project
cost would be for low cost sewerage systems in low income neighborhoods,
which are facing critical sanitary conditions, affecting over four million
people.
3.04      Subprojects from all SWCs would, in principle, be accepted in the
proposed project.   Before being eligible for subproject financing (para.
3.12), the SWCs would have to comply with the following conditions: (a)
presentation of an EVG 1983-87 (para. 1.10), satisfactory to BNH and the
Bank; (b) presentation of an institutional development program, satisfac-
tory to BNH and the Bank (para.1.16); (c) compliance with the Tariff Law,
4/ The project does not provide funding for institutional development of
BNH. Funding for this program is included under Loans 1823-BR and
1970-BR (para. 2.04).



14
or in special cases, presentation of a plan, satisfactory to BNH and the
Bank, to achieve compliance in 1985 at the latest (para. 4.10); (d) compli-
ance with existing loan covenants if already included in current Bank pro-
jects; and (e) full commitment of loan funds if already included in current
Bank projects. During Loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Borrower that (a) the SWCs will meet the above eligibility criteria prior
to becoming Loan beneficiaries and (b) BNH will annually review compliance
by each SWC, and prepare proposals satisfactory to the Bank for compliance
or suspension of new financing of subprojects, if necessary.   Because of
the substantial investment programs of the SWCs in Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro and Minas Gerais, and the need to maintain a balanced sector ap-
proach, BNH also provided assurances   during negotiations that Bank dis-
bursements for subprojects in the three states combined would be limited to
45% of the proposed loan amount.
Selection Criteria
3.05      Analysis of subprojects under PLANASA is based on simple criteria
agreed upon under previous Bank financed projects and applicable to all
subprojects financed by BNH loans to the SWCs.  The criteria include:  (a)
selection of the least cost alternative; (b) cut-off criteria based on per
capita investment cost for villages   and small communities;  (c) average
long-term incremental cost (marginal cost) for medium and large cities. In
cities with 50,000 or more inhabitants, the present tariff or the cove-
nanted tariff in the next twelve months should exceed 75% of the marginal
cost of such subprojects (equivalent on average to an internal financial
rate of return of 5% or more). For water supply subprojects in cities with
5,000 to 50,000 inhabitants and all sewerage subprojects, the applicable
tariff (water or sewerage) should be at least 60% of the marginal cost of
each subproject  (equivalent  to a return of 1% or more).   Projects not
satisfying the above conditions but which are redesigned for minimum cost
may be accepted by the Bank on a case by case basis.   The analysis consi-
ders (a) poverty levels and health conditions; (b) the lack of alternative
water sources; (c) the impossibility of recovering costs through tariffs;
and (d) an evaluation of benefits in other sectors of the economy.  These
projects are likely to be in towns where urban poverty prevails and large
investments are needed to compensate for the lack of previous investments.
The Bank participates in the financing of grant financed subprojects when
the poverty level is higher than 70%.
3.06       BNH has applied the current selection criteria to some two hun-
dred subprojects during the last year.  The results reveal the need for
some improvements,  The least cost analysis for sewerage usually does not
include alternatives for the improvement of existing individual systems or
construction of non-conventional, low cost technology systems.  The use of
per capita cost as a cut-off criteria for each small community does not fit
well with BNH's practice of dealing with packages of small communities.
Many subprojects, particularly those in medium cities, which achieve ac-
ceptable internal financial rates of return have not met the marginal cost
cut-off criteria.  The current criteria are being modified by: (a) includ-
ing a check list of items for least-cost analysis of sewerage subprojects;



- 15 -
(b) applying average investment per capita costs to groups of subprojects
for small communities; and (c) using rate of return cut-off criteria for
subprojects that do not meet the marginal cost criteria.  The cut-off rates
of return would be the same as the average equivalent returns under exist-
ing selection criteria.   In cases where the rate of return is used, BNH
should demonstrate that the subproject would not have a negative effect on
the SWC's cash flow. Agreement was reached during Loan negotiations on the
proposed selection criteria (Annex 5), and assurances were obtained from
BNH that the criteria will be applied to all subprojects to be financed
under the Loan.
Service Standards
3.07      Service standards under the project will consist of water supply
by house connections and sewage disposal by public systems in most cities.
Standards are in accordance with proper management practices and the hab-
its, expectations and ability to pay of the populations benefitted. Conso-
lidated service levels for each SWC for the project implementation period
have been prepared and are presented in Annex 14.  Works are appropriately
staged to suit the least-cost solutions.  Existing facilities in most pro-
ject cities will be upgraded and/or expanded in order to extend their use-
ful lives.  Distribution networks will be extended to new areas.  These ex-
tensions are being designed to conform with accepted BNH standards. Empha-
sis is given in the project to the use of low-cost sewage disposal techni-
ques (para. 3.02 (b)).
Project Cost
3.08         fhe total cost of the project is estimated at US$863 million
equivalent (Table 3.1).   The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$263 million (30.6% of total).  The local component includes about US$30
million equivalent of indirect taxes on industrial products.   Base costs
are expressed in prices of Julv 1982.  The project cost includes: (a) 10%
of the construction cost for engineering expense related to the project;
(b) 10% of the base cost for physical contingencies; and (c) 27.6% of the
July 1982 project cost for price escalation  (US$186.9 million).   Due to
high internal inflation rates, project cost estimates were prepared in UPCs
(commonly used Brazilian monetary unit equal to the value of indexed na-
tional treasury bonds).   Since 1981 the value of the UPC in equivalent US
dollars has been maintained (1 UPC=US$10.8). The value of the UPC in equi-
valent US dollars is expected to be maintained over the project disburse-
ment period. Price contingencies for foreign and local cost (in UPCs) were
calculated using the following rates of inflation:   1982, 8%;  1983, 8%;
1984, '5%. 1985, 7%; and 1986 and thereafter, 6%.
3.09      The total cost of the project was determined on the basis of the
1983-87 investment programs of the 26 SWCs, as defined in the EVGs.   Dur-
ing Loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNH that the Bank will
have the opportunity to comment on major changes in the EVGs.  Project cost
would represent about 60% of new investments in 1983-84, after allowing for
full commitment of Bank financed projects under implementation and the



- 16 -
limitations on investment in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais.
Detailed investments by company are shown in Annex 6.
Table 3.1: PRJE= OJSrT 3IIARY
(UPC MiliA)        (US$ Million)   % of
Foreig  % of Total
local Foreign Total local Foreign  Total  Fchange Base Gosts
A. Water Supply          18.94  8.11  27.05 204.5  87.6  292.1   30.0    47.7
B. Sewrae               12.94  5.55  18.49  139.7  59.9  199.6   30.0    32.6
C. EpuiIxmant/Otbers     1.46  0.63  2.09  15.8   6.8  22.6   30.0    3.7
D. Engineering & Adnilstrationl/ 5.99   3.00  8.99  64.7  32.4  97.1   33.4    15.9
E. Sanitation Rio de Janeiro    0.03  0.09  0.12  0.3   1.0   1.3   76.9  0.2
Total BASELINE O)ST       39.36  17.38  56.74 425.0  187.7  612.7   30.6   100.0
Physical Contingencies   3.94  1.74  5.68  42.5  18.8  61.3   30.6    10.0
Price Cntingencies      12.04  5.27  17.31  130.0  .56.9  186.9   30.6    30.4
Total PODC Coas            55.34  24.39  79.73 597.5  263.4  860.9   30.6   140.4
Front-erd fee                  0.21  0.21          2.3   2.3   -       -
Total Financing Pequired  55.34  24.60  79.94 597.5  265.7  863.2
1/ Izxnces US$9 mUlian of teimical assistanx to %s.
3. 10     Cost estimates for major subprojects are based on bills of quan-
tities and unit prices prepared by consultants, the SWCs and BNH.  Estim-
ates for other subprojects are based on unit costs for similar works.
About 1,280 man-months of consulting services are included for the tech-
nical assistance to SWCs.  About 90 man-months of consultant services are
included for the preparation of the Rio de Janeiro Sanitation Project.
Completion of final engineering designs and construction supervision will
require about  2,790 man-months  of consulting services.   Total estimated
cost of consulting and engineering services is US$27.6 million.  The aver-
age cost per man-month (US$6,640), represents the man-month rate as billed
by consulting firms for individuals and includes salaries, social costs,
and the firms' overhead and profits.   Because of the technical ability of
local consulting firms (often working in joint ventures with foreign
firms), no direct expatriate consultants' input is expected except for
highly technical studies for the preparation of the Rio de Janeiro Project.
Project Financing
3.11       The SWCs' investment programs are to be financed by loans from
BNH and the FAEs (para. 1.14).  The Bank Loan of US$302.3 million (35% of
the total project cost) would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of



- 17 -
the project of US$263 million, US$37 million of domestic expenditures and
US$2.3 million of the front-end fee. Financing of local costs is justified
on the basis of achieving a reasonable participation by the Bank in total
project costs.  The balance would be financed by BNH funds (15%) and loans
from the FAEs (50%). BNH intends to obtain co-financing of US$100 million.
Project Implementation
3.12       The Loan would be made to BNH with the guarantee of the Govern-
ment.  The 26 SWCs would be eligible as sub-borrowers and beneficiaries.  A
project loan agreement (para. 1.10) signed by BNH and each State and the
SWC will be used for each subproject to be financed.   This agreement will
include  general lending conditions and commitments  detailed in Annex 7.
The Bank obtained BNH agreement during Loan negotiations on: (a) the terms
and conditions of the project loan agreements; (b) the signature by at
least three States and SWCs of their first project loan agreement as a con-
dition of Loan effectiveness; and (c) the signature by the State and SWC of
the project loan agreement with BNH (CTN or CTE) as a condition for disbur-
sements of loan proceeds for the subproject.
3.13       The executing agencies for the proposed project will be the SWCs
for investments in the project states, and BNH for preparation of the Rio
de Janeiro Sanitation Project.   The individual subprojects are being pre-
pared and would be supervised by qualified consultants retained by the SWCs
and by the OTs. BNH has responsibility for coordinating the entire project
and providing technical assistance to the SWCs.
3.14       The project will be implemented during 1983-87.  Annual project
investments are presented in Annex 8.  These investment tables, which have
been agreed upon with BNH, will form the basis for progress reporting.
This investment schedule (Annex 8) is compatible with the executing capabi-
lities of each SWC.  The project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1987.  To avoid delays assurances were obtained from BNH that all Bank
Loan funds will be committed through on-lending agreements (CTN or CTE) by
December 31, 1986.
Status of Project Preparation
3.15          Project preparation conforms  to the proposed  implementation
schedule.   Final designs for major works which are expected to start in
1983 are being completed by consultants.   Designs for extensions of water
distribution or sewage systems in many cases follow existing master plans
and only minor revisions are needed.   Designs for medium-size and small
communities, in most cases, require a lead time of only two to three
months.   In order to assure an early start on disbursement of Loan funds
after signature, BNH has approved final designs corresponding to 15% of the
total estimated project cost.  These designs are now being reviewed by the
Bank.



- 18 -
Project Supervision
3.16       Project supervision by BNH should allow the Bank to sustain pre-
sent sector lending levels with reasonable Bank manpower input.  Bank su-
pervision would concentrate on the strengthening of the PLANASA system and
sector-wide issues.   BNH's general supervision activities include annual
reviews of EVGs and institutional development programs, semi-annual reviews
of tariff proposals, and review of engineering and economic studies of
major subprojects. Direct project supervision would continue to be carried
out by the SWCs own staff or private consultants with assistance from SOSAN
and the OTs.   Assurances were obtained from BNH during Loan negotiations
that (a) its staff will make semi-annual field supervisions of each project
SWC; (b) will submit to the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year a
satisfactory report on the status of project implementation, including com-
pliance with Loan covenants, technical assistance for COSAN and monitoring
indicators (para. 4.12); and (c) submit to the Bank a Project Completion
report within four months of Loan closing.
3.17       The Bank will review and approve all subprojects in cities with
estimated investments of US$8 million or more.  The aggregate of these sub-
projects would represent about 80% of the programmed investments but
only about 60 subprojects.   Subprojects in cities in which the estimated
investment is less than US$8 million would be approved by BNH subject to
ex post Bank review. This arrangement, now in operation for all water and
sewerage loans in Brazil, is working satisfactorily and is consistent with
BNH's present supervision capabilities.
Procurement
3.18      Purchases of goods and services will be processed under contracts
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.   BNH uses detailed guidelines, consistent with those
of the Bank (Annex 9). Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$500,000 and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$3.0 million may be pro-
cured in accordance with locally advertised bidding procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank.   In evaluation of bids for equipment and mate-
rials, local bidders will be allowed a margin of preference of either 15%
of the CIF price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Appro-
ximately 60% of the goods and services should be procured using interna-
tional competitive bidding.  A general procurement notice was published in
the Development Forum. Assurances were obtained from BNH during Loan nego-
tiations that agreed upon procurement guidelines will be used in all procu-
rement processes under the project and that the general procurement notice
will be up-dated annually.
3.19       The Bank delegated the ex ante review of procurement decisions
to BNH under previous loans.  These procedures, which are detailed in  An-
nex 9, have resulted in faster decisions and project execution.  The Bank
would carry-out ex post review by sampling, and if it is determined that



- 19 -
procurement is inconsistent with agreed procedures, no expenditures for
such items would be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may cancel such amount of the Loan.   Since the approval of Loan 1970-BR,
the Bank's ex post reviews have confirmed the adequacy of procurement
procedures.
Disbursement
3.20      The loan will be disbursed as follows:  (a)  68% of BNH's disbur-
sements to SWCs for eligible subprojects or technical assistance programs;
(b) 34% of BNH's disbursements to the states under the FINEST II line of
credit for approved subprojects; (c) 68% of BNH's disbursements to the
states under the FINEST III line of credit for programs in small communi-
ties; (d) 34% of Federal or State grants allocated to the SWCs for water or
sewerage subprojects in which at least 70% of the population benefitted are
urban poor; and (e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expendi-
tures for consulting services for project preparation of the Rio de Janeiro
Sanitation Project.   For disbursements under  (a) through (d) above,  the
Bank would finance 34% of the cost of subprojects excluding financial and
technical charges.  Differences in disbursement percentages are due to BNH
financing 100% of the costs of FINEST II and grants and 50% of the costs of
the other lines (Annex 4).
3.21       BNH and the Bank agreed during Loan Negotiations on the need of
providing retroactive financing of up to US$15 million for project expendi-
tures incurred after January 1, 1983.  Such expenditures would be financed
if the following conditions are met:  (i) the SWC and the subproject compi-
with the eligibility and selection criteria, respectuvely; (ii) the CTN is
amended to include the terms and conditions of the Loan; and (iii) Bank
procurement guidelines have been followed.
3.22      A Special Account, in the amount of US$20 million, will be estab-
lished in the Banco Central do Brasil. This procedure reduces the time lag
between BNH's disbursements and Bank reimbursements to BNH.  The time lag
results in an erosion of the exchange rate at which BNH is reimbursed by
the Bank.   A similar account was established under Loan 1970-BR and is
working satisfactorily.   The advances would be used to finance only the
Bank's share of the project cost.   BNH would be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Special Account at the exchange rate applicable on the day
BNH disbursed its funds.  Loan disbursements (with the exception of with-
drawals incurred for consulting services for preparation of the Rio de
Janeiro Sanitation Project, which will be fully documented) will be made
against qtatements of expenditures prepared by BNH for each subproject, a
procedure tha. has worked successfully under previous Bank loans.  The de-
tailed docum_atation will be reLained by the beneficiary for inspection
during supervision missions and for audit by external auditors.   No force
account works  are envisaged.   Disbursement  procedures are explained in
Annex 10.  The estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 11) assumes that
the Loan will be disbursed in six years compared to the average disburse-
ment period for past water supply loans in the Latin American Region of



- 20 -
eight years.  The more rapid disbursement is expected to occur because of
favorable prior Bank experience with BNH, particularly the three multi-
state projects,  and the three year commitment period.   The Closing Date
will be September 30, 1989.
Environmental Aspects
3.23       The project will improve environmental conditions in subproject
cities by extending basic sanitation services. Water supplies will be con-
structed or expanded to reach mainly low income areas of the cities or
small communities.   Sewage disposal facilities will be constructed to deal
with increased volumes of sewage resulting from the expansion of water sup-
plies.   The increase  in volume of sewage discharged in water courses in
some of the large and medium-size cities will require the construction of
treatment or special disposal facilities. The project includes the financ-
ing of studies for a pollution control project in the metropolitan area of
Rio de Janeiro as well as studies on low cost technologies for domestic
sewage disposal.  The monitoring and control of water quality would be en-
hanced by the project through the provision of laboratory equipment.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The Borrower - BNH
Past and Present Finances
4.01        BNH's principal sources of funds are deposits in the Employee
Indemnity Fund (FGTS).  The FGTS is financed by an 8% payroll contribution
from all private sector employees covered by labor legislation.   Partici-
pants in the FGTS may withdraw their contributions plus interest when un-
employed or for house purchase or retirement.
4.02       Summary BNH financial statements are presented in Table 4.1 (de-
tails in Annex 12).  BNH continued to expand its operations during 1980-81,
although at lower growth rates than those achieved in the 1970s.  The loan
portfolio increased in 1980-81 at an average annual rate of 23%, while
total assets increased 17% p.a. Net receipts of the FGTS also increased by
17% annually.   During 1980-81, operating receipts increased 13% p.a. as a
result of slightly lower portfolio yields (para. 4.04) while operating ex-
penses were up 31% p.a. due to the lagging of the UPC (para. 4.03) and
higher administrative costs resulting from BNH's decentralization of opera-
tions. Internal cash generation dropped from UPC 42 million in 1979 to UPC
32 million in 1981.5/
4.03         BNH's total assets at December 31, 1981, were UPC 1,507 mil-
lion. The loan portfolio amounted to UPC 1,386 million or 92% of total as-
sets at December 31, 1981. Loans are backed by state and municipal govern-
ment and financial institution guarantees and mortgages. The allowance for
5/ 1 UPC = 10.8 US$ as of July 1982.



- 21 -
doubtful loans is legally set at one percent of loans outstanding. A loans
receivable aging at December 31, 1981, showed two percent of the loan port-
folio past due. BNH's equity (UPC 132 million) was a reasonable 10% of its
loan portfolio at December 31, 1981.  The FGTS amounted to UPC 1,137 mil-
lion, or 75% of BNH's total liabilities at December 31, 1981.  Other ele-
ments of BNH's capital structure at December 31, 1981, included housing and
savings and loan systems deposits (UPC 103 million: 7% of liabilities and
equity) and outstanding loans payable (UPC 37 million: 2% of liabilities
and equity). BNH's financial position is relatively well protected against
inflation as its loan portfolio and liabilities are denominated in UPCs and
excess cash is invested in government securities (ORTN) that are indexed
with inflation.  Adjustments to the UPC of 41% in 1979 and 55% in 1980
lagged considerably below the inflation rate of 77% recorded in 1979 and
91% in 1980.  This resulted in a transfer of resources from FGTS partici-
pants  to beneficiaries  of BNH loans.   Beginning in 1981,  however,  the
Government has maintained a policy of adjusting the UPC with inflation.
4.04       BNH lending increased from UPC 218 million in 1979 to UPC 325
million in 1981, an annual average increase of 22%. Lending to the sanita-
tion sector during this period was up 58% p.a. and totalled UPC 96 million
in 1981.  BNH annually prepares and up-dates a four-year lending program.
Sectoral and regional loan allocations are determined by the government's
public investment policy; sector demand and absorptive capacity; undis-
bursed funds under existing contracts; limits on indebtedness; and BNH's
profitability. Total lending in 1982 decreased slightly to UPC 321 million
as a result of the government's policy to control inflation by limiting
public investment. Lending for sanitation in 1982 is estimated at UPC 89
million, 7% lower than in 1981. BNH policies have increasingly emphasized
social interest loans addressed to poorer regions and lower ranges of the
housing market, resulting in a slight decrease in loan portfolio yields
(5.4% in 1979 versus 5.2% in 1981).   BNH interest rates for housing in-
crease with the size of the loan and range from 1% to 9%. Interest rates
for sanitation and urban development increase with, inter alia, the income
of the state and range from 1% to 10.5% (Annex 4). Terms for sanitation
loans are 18 years for water supply projects including an 18 month grace
period and 30 years for sewerage projects including a 54 month grace
period.   To improve its profitability, BNH increased interest charges on
sanitation and urban development loans in May 1982 and plans to increase
its loan administration fees in 1983.   BNH annual financial expense on
average liabilities and equity dropped slightly from 3.12% in 1979 to 3.10%
in 1981.  BNH pays 3.5% p.a. on the FGTS.  The Government subsidizes BNH's
cost of external debt with official development institutions by assuming
losses on the (a) spread between the interest charges on such debt and
BNH's on-lending rates and (b) foreign exchange after monetary correction.
The Government policy, which is justified in view of the social nature of
BNH's operations and the high level of cost recovery involved (para. 1.18)
would be continued for the proposed Bank loan and extended to commercial
bank co-financing included in the proposed project.



- 22 -
Future Finances
4.05       BNH's sources and applications of funds for 1983-1987 are sum-
marized in Table 4.1 (details in Annex 12).  For the period under review,
FGTS deposits are expected to grow 7% p.a. and should amount to UPC 960
million, or 42% of BNH's total sources of funds.   Loan repayments should
contribute UPC 620 million, or 27% of BNH's funds.  Internal cash genera-
tion is expected to improve over the five years, averaging UPC 52 million
and providing 11% of BNH's funds.  External borrowings from the Bank and
commercial bank co-financing should provide UPC 100 million, or 4% of BNH's
funds.   New lending activity is projected to grow at 5% p.a., totalling
about UPC 1,900 million during 1983-87.   BNH sanitation lending is pro-
jected at UPC 460 million over 1983-87, or 25% of total BNH lending.
Government limits on BNH lending are expected to be continued in 1983 with
a relaxation beginning in 1984. BNH's financial projections do not include
possible additional funding from the recently created FINSOCIAL (housing,
education and nutrition fund financed by a revenue tax and administered by
the National Development Bank) as the amounts to be allocated and terms and
conditions  of these  funds are still being discussed,   BNH's  financial
performance could be affected by the uncertainties associated with the
Brazilian economic outlook over the next few years. The uncertainties will
be alleviated to the extent that the Government's adjustment efforts
restore the conditions for sustained growth.
The Beneficiaries - SWCs
4.06       Two principal factors have to be considered when analyzing the
SWCs' financial performance:   their sources of funds to finance their in-
vestment programs and the objective of the NTL to ensure their financial
viability (para. 1.18).   The SWCs' investment programs have been almost
100% financed by BNX and FAE loans and government and developers' grants,
lessening the need for substantial internal cash generation.   Compliance
with the NTL in 1983 and thereafter in well managed SWCs should result in
full debt service and working capital coverage, positive internal contribu-
tion to investment and satisfactory rates of return.  Also, as their reve-
nues grow, the SWCs should be able to reduce their dependence on BNH and
FAE loans, freeing funds for other activities, including rural sanitation,
pollution control and solid waste management.  The Bank's revenue covenant
for the 14 SWCs under existing loans allows for gradual compliance with the
NTL in 1981 and 1982 with full compliance in 1983 and thereafter.  The re-
venue covenant for the proposed project will require full compliance with
the NTL.
1981-82 Financial Performance and Current Position
4.07       Summary financial data for the SWCs are presented in Annex 13
(details in the Project File).  Financial performance of the 14 SWCs under
on-going Bank loans has improved.  Five SWCs complied with the Bank's re-
venue covenant in 1981 and nine complied in 1982, based on estimated re-
sults. Of the 12 new companies to be considered in the proposed project,
two SWCs complied with the stricter requirements of the NTL in 1981 and
two complied  in 1982.   The improvement  resulted from tariff  increases



Table 4.1: lE  SI4MR FINILZ POSITICN
(UPC ndlions)
Balance Sheet
1979        1980         1981         1982        1983         1984         1985         1986         1987
loanm Receivable             922.6      1,141.4       1,385.9    1,636.8      1,881.8      2,145.0      2,423.4      2,721.0      3,036.1
Other Assets                 170.4       105.2         120.6       131.5        154.2        185.1       268.6        314.6        373.7
Total Assets             1,093.0      1,246.6       1,506.5     1,768.3     2,036.0      2,330.1      2,692.0      3,035.6      3,409.8
FY1TS Deposits               826.1       978.4        1,137.0    1,321.2      1,522.9      1,748.3      1,997.5      2,270.7      2,564.5
Other Liabilities            149.8        147.6        237.8       305.0        349.4        394.4       478.1        520.8        571.1
Capital amd Reserves         117.1        120.6        131.7       142.1        163.7       187.4        216.4        244.1        274.2
Total Liabilities
anxd Capital           1,093.0      1,246.6       1,506.5     1,768.3     2,036.0      2,330.1      2,692.0      3,035.6      3,409.8
Cash Flaw Statement                                                   Total
1983-87      x
Operating Receipts            57.6        64.6          73.9        77.5         80.7        98.4        110.8        124.1        138.2         537.0
Experses                      15.3        25.0          41.7        45.8         47.7         52.3        58.2         64.2         70.1         292.8
Internal Cash Generation      42.3        39.6          32.2        31.7         33.0        46.1         52.6         59.9         68.1         259.7       11
FM1'S eposits                109.7        120.2        135.9       152.9        169.6        180.6       193.7        205.8        216.4         966.1       42
Loman Repayments              92.4        89.4         100.5        93.9        100.0        109.9       122.9        134.0        149.2         616.0       27
Other                         41.5        48.9         117.0        68.9         61.5        45.5         58.3        104.4         93.6         363.3       16
Ilans                         11.5         2.7           5.2        16.8         17.8        19.6         21.0         22.4         22.7         103.5        4
Total Sources              297.4        300.8        390.8       364.2        391.9        401.7        448.5        526.5       550.0       2,308.6      100
Loans                      218.2        298.3         324.5       321.0       327.2        352.6        377.9        405.1        434.3       1,897.1       82
Other Applications            75.5         4.7          65.0        40.3         25.5        48.3         69.7        120.5        114.7         408.7       18
Total Applications         293.7        303.0        389.5       361.3        382.7       b40.9         447.6       525.6        549.0       2,305.8      100
(aange in Cash                 3.7        (2.2)          1.3         2.9         (0.8)        0.8          0.9          0.9          1.0           2.8        0
_~                                a                                     a            a            a                  



- 24 -
in real terms granted in 1981-82 for almost all companies combined with a
program of cost reductions and debt service assumptions by the states.  The
number of SWCs covering their working capital and debt service requirements
increased from ten in 1981 to 18 in 1982.  Companies with positive rates of
return increased from 15 in 1981 to 18 in 1982.  Debt/equity ratios at the
end of 1981 ranged from a high of 3.5:1 to SWCs with no debt servicing re-
quirements.   Several of the companies have been affected by delays in ac-
counts receivable collections which represent losses in real terms in high
inflationary periods.   Fixed assets are understated due to incomplete in-
ventories and revaluation based on an ORTN index which historically through
1980 was less than inflation (para. 4.03). Also in some SWCs the composite
depreciation rate is less than 2%, which is insufficient to spread the cost
of fixed assets over their estimated useful lives.   The project includes
measures to address these deficiencies (para. 2.12).
Future Finances
4.08        A table in Annex 13 summarizes for each SWC the year in which
specific financial targets should be met during the project implementation
period.   These  targets  include  compliance  with  the NTL,  positive  cash
flows, rates of return and the debt service ratio.   The SWCs' financial
projections are expressed in UPCs which are expected to maintain their
value against the US dollar in accordance with Government policy.  Operat-
ing improvements are assumed to be achieved, principally in unaccounted-for
water, employees/thousand connections and accounts receivable collections.
Inflation rates assumed for projection purposes are 8%-1983; 7.5%-1984;
7%-1985, and 6% p.a. thereafter.   Summary financial data for each of the
SWCs are presented in Annex 13 (details in the Project File).
4.09      Nineteen companies should comply with the NTL in 1983, including
12 of the  14 SWCs currently receiving Bank financing.   These companies
should all meet their working capital needs and achieve debt service ratios
of greater than 1.3 and positive contribution to investment.   The debt/
equity ratio should not exceed 3:1 for any SWC in this group.   Projected
rates of return should range from 1% to 9%.  Projected tariff increases to
allow compliance in 1984 and thereafter are in line with or less than pre-
sent Government guidelines for public utilities.
4.10        The seven SWCs not expected to comply with the NTL in 1983 are
relatively small. Using volume of water sold as a measure, these SWCs ac-
count for only 4% of sector activity.  They would require tariff increases
ranging from 10% to 47% in real terms to gain compliance.  These increases
are well the above Government's guidelines for 1983 public service tariff
adjustments (maximum 5% increase in real terms). These guidelines are con-
sistent with overall goals to control inflation, increase operating effi-
ciencies and reduce costs in public service institutions. The Bank and BNH
agreed on plans for compliance with the NTL by 1985 for the SWCs of Paraiba
(CAGEPA), Mato Grosso (SANEMAT), Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL) and Maranhao
(CAEMA). These plans include specific annual financial targets. The three
smallest SWCs of Acre (SANACRE), Amapa (CAESA) and Roraima (CAER) are not
expected to comply by 1985 and, in consequence, will not benefit from the
project (Annex 13).   Assurances from the Federal Government and BNH were



- 25 -
obtained that the revenue covenant and financial recovery plans will be met
in each year.   Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that BNH
would annually review compliance with the revenue covenant and recovery
plans and propose remedial action including suspension of new financing
when necessary.   Overall sector financial performance   should be satis-
factory with 23 SWCs, accounting for 99% of volume sold, attaining the NTL
objectives in 1985.
Financing Plan
4.11        The sector financing plan (1983-87) is presented in Table 4.2.
Total sector investment is estimated at UPC 884 million (US$9.5 bil-
lion) over the five year period. BNH and the FAEs would finance UPC 537.2
million (60%) of the investment program including engineering and adminis-
trative expenses and interest during construction.  Government and develo-
pers' contributions would finance UPC 160.2 million (18%) and the SWCs
would cover UPC 113 million (13%) of capital expenditures.  In addition to
direct loans of UPC   229.3 million to the SWCs, BNH would provide the
states  with UPC  49.7 million  in supplemental  loans  to the FAEs.   The
states' net funding of the investment program through the FAEs, grants and
debt service payments on previous BNH supplemental loans would amount to
3.3% of the states tax revenues, which is below the maximum 5% contrib-
ution.   Bank Loans,  including the proposed operation, would finance UPC
64.4 million of sector investment. Co-financing of US$100 million (UPC 9.2
million) would be sought to assist BNH in meeting its financing require-
ments. During Loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government and BNH on the timely availability of counterpart funds. Agree-
ment was also reached on the states' obligations to provide the required
counterpart funds as part of the general on-lending conditions and that by
November of each year counterpart fund requirements will be reviewed.
Table 4.2: SECTOR FINANCING PLAN
1983-1987
UPC Million    US$ Million           x
Internal Cash Generation             333.2           3598.6
Debt Service                         195.3           2109.2
Working Capital/Other Needs           24.9            268.9
Contribution to Investment         113.0           1220.5           13
Project Investment                    79.7            860.9
Other Investment                     804.3           8686.3
Total Investment                  884.0            9547.2          100
Financing Required                   771.0           8326.7           87
IBRD - Current Loans                  41.1            443.9            5
IBRD - Sector Loan                    23.3            251.3 1/         3
Commercial Bank                        9.2            100.0             1
BNH                                  229.3           2476.4           25
FAEs                                 307.9           3325.3           35
Total Loans                       610.8            6596.9           69
Contributions/Grants                 160.2           1729.8            18
Total Financing                   771.0            8326.7           87
1/ An additional US$51.0 million would be drawn-down in 1988-89.



- 26 -
Monitoring Indicators
4.12       Monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 14.  Agreement was
reached during Loan negotiations to provide to the Bank before September
30, 1983, monitoring indicators and their inclusion and comparison with
actual performance in semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.16).
V. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.01        The project supports Government efforts to achieve a more bal-
anced development in the sector by: (a) providing water and sewerage serv-
ices to deprived regions; and (b) improving existing water supply and
sewerage services.   The project will benefit fifteen million urban poor
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07). The project emphasizes investments in medium-sized
cities (pop. 5,000-50,000) where the incidence of poverty is high and large
investments are needed to compensate for the lack of previous investments.
It will also make water supply services available to many small communi-
ties. The project would also continue to contribute to the strengthening
of BNH and the SWCs capacity to plan, appraise and execute projects,
thereby promoting the efficient utilization of investment resources within
the sector.  One important aspect of this is the use of BNH guidelines for
least-cost and economic analysis of subprojects.
5.02       As in all water supply and sewerage projects, the full economic
and social impact of this project cannot be evaluated through a simple rate
of return. Some well-known benefits, such as improvement of public health,
increases in effective nutrition due to reduced internal parasites, greater
well-being of the population, effects of progressive tariffs on the distri-
bution of income and services, and enhanced property values cannot be quan-
tified reliably and are therefore excluded from the rate of return calcula-
tions.   The economic evaluation of the project uses a sample based on pre-
liminary feasibility studies (RTPs), amounting to about 40% of total pro-
ject investments.  The sample was selected to reflect the subproject types,
investment weights and regional differences expected to prevail under the
project.  No sewerage subprojects from capital cities were included in the
sample because RTPs for those subprojects were unavailable at the time of
appraisal.   Projects  in capital cities  are expected,  however,  to yield
similar results to those in large cities. Besides, overall investments for
sewerage in capital cities are expected to be very small.  The overall re-
turns on the project are deemed to approximate the results obtained from
the sample evaluated.
Least Cost Analysis
5.03        All subprojects in the sample represented the least cost solu-
tion.   Least-cost analysis and subproject  selection criteria,  agreed to
between the Bank and BNH, will be incorporated in all feasibility reports
of subprojects presented to BNH (Annex 5).



- 27 -
Economic Rates of Return and Marginal Cost
5.04       The analysis uses a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.15 and a
shadow labor rate of 0.90. In some communities, some small investments not
related to incremental benefits (such as pipe replacement, maintenance
equipment or studies for future projects) have been excluded from the ana-
lysis.  Economic rates of return were calculated using both covenanted and
present tariff levels as minimum measures for economic benefits.  Summary
results are presented in Table 5.1 and details are presented in Annex 15.
The covenanted tariff levels are considered feasible by the Bank and the
Government.  The rates of return obtained are satisfactory and exceed re-
quirements for subproject selection.  The weighted average rates of return
for the project as a whole are 11% at covenanted and 9% at present tariffs
for water supply, 10% and 7%, for sewerage,6/ and 10% and 8% for water and
sewerage combined. These results are moderately sensitive to increases in
project costs, or decreases in benefits (Table 5.1): a two-year lag in
achieving benefits, for example, would reduce returns by about 2%. Higher
variations than those tested for are unlikely.   Overall rates of return
would more closely approximate or exceed the opportunity cost of capital if
the consumer surplus is included.  Experience shows that, when necessary,
the population is willing to pay much higher prices for smaller volumes of
water. In many cities, 20-30 liters of water purchased from street vendors
by urban poor reach prices 4 to 6 times higher than the present average
tariffs. The rate of return for water supply in capital cities (57% weight
on investments analyzed), including consumer surplus with 10% increase in
costs and 10% decrease in volume sold (Table 5.1), is estimated at about
27%.
'-bo 5.1: RATE OF R2Si AWI 1/
(1)  (2)  (3)  (4)
; np_tal z lam Mal= s  1  Vei.Xted Asvera,d
t   ats Citi Cams. (1,2,3)  Ali
1   -'a~ter  S
a) aS n ed tarff levels (Table 5.2)  21.9  17.2  6.8  5.3  10.5  10.5
Swziti7ity to:
b) 10% nrTese in iuvetat       10.7  15.4  5.8  4.1  9.4  9.4
c) 1% imre&e a     inve ia ntt an  10 lower bmeits  9.4    13.4  4.6    2.9  8.2  8.1
d)  at praamt tlriffs (Table 5.2)  10.9  13.9  5.6  3.5  9.4  9.3
a) iiing eetiAt caer suplus    26.5   -   -   -   -    -
f)  tw^ yer lag in bmflt.t     9.3    12.7  5.3    3.9  8.3  8.3
g) % wai*t X aib-projetanays   57   6   35   2   98  I0D
II.  Sssews  2/
a)atant  taiff levels         -   9.4  11.2  -    -    9.6 2/
SStiVI f to:
b)  ie in iansvwtt              -   8.0  10.1  -   -    8.2
c) log lraae ia  tt  h 1% lower bfits   -   6.6  9.1  -   -    6.9
d) at preat tariffb             -   7.7  4.3  -    -    7.4
' Tayear ag in'tits             -   7.3  9.2  -    -    7.5
mfrply ard se1drags
i) at evcn   1a'I'3             -    9.9  8.0  _   9.3 2/   9.8
br)V'MImcree in 4st             -   8.5  7.0  -   8.0  8.5
e) at preset tsri-s             -    8.i  5.3  -   7.3  8.1
t) tw year lag in befita        -    7.6  6.6    -  7.3  7.5
a) % vt x er water and aecrsge i=Jieta   -   53  20   -   73  100
1/ Of  ib-project Smple malyzed (aboxt 40% of total projet investen.ts). rsIiJa are p nauta  in h3#r 15.
2/ ule3 2 d 3.
5.05       The marginal costs for water supply and sewerage at an opportu-
nity cost of capital of 11% in July 1982 prices are summarized in Table 5.2
6/ Weighted result for large and medium cities.



- 28 -
and detailed calculations are given in Annex 15.  The consolidated results
for water supply in all four types of communities are satisfactory.
Present average tariffs per cubic meter sold represent about 92% of mar-
ginal cost ranging from 123% in large cities to 56% in small communities.
Covenanted tariffs vary from 149% to 64% of the marginal cost. Since mini-
mum consumption charges are subsidized to make them affordable to the poor
(para. 1.20) and excess consumption is charged at rates about 60%-370%
higher than the minimum charges, the covenanted tariff levels can be consi-
dered  to be  consistent  with marginal  costs.   Results  for sewerage  are
similar.
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact
5.06      PLANASA investment during 1983-1987 will benefit about 24 million
new consumers with piped water and provide about 12.2 million existing con-
sumers with water improved in quality and quantity. It will increase over-
all urban water supply service levels in Brazil from 69% in 1983 to 89% of
the urban population by 1987.  Sewerage services will be extended to about
nine million individuals, increasing service levels from 30%7/ to 37%.
The impact of the project will continue to increase as complementary works
are completed.  It is roughly estimated that the equivalent number of per-
sons to be served during the total useful life of the project (using an 11%
discount rate) will be about 60 million.
5.07      The direct impact of the program on the poverty group, defined as
families earning a monetary income of three regional minimum salaries or
less8/, in the urban areas of the states was estimated by calculating the
proportion of urban poor in the total incremental urban population served
(Annex 16).   About 78% of the urban poor will have water connections by
1987. About 12 million or about 50% of the new customers to be benefitted
from the water supply investments belong to the poverty group.   Sewerage
investments which previously had been limited to densely populated areas,
will be gradually extended to some medium-sized cities.  About 3.4 million
urban poor (38% of the incremental population to be served) will be in-
cluded among sewerage subproject beneficiaries.   Follow-up sewerage pro-
jects emphasizing low-cost sanitation technologies will be studied during
project execution.
Affordability of Project Services
5.08         The Tariff Law specifies that the minimum monthly charge for
water should not exceed 35% of one ORTN (US$3.95), and the combined charge
for water and sewerage should not exceed 50% of one ORTN (US$5.64).   The
existing monthly charges for minimum consumption of water range from 22% to
78% (average: 50%) of the values allowed by the Tariff Law.  Furthermore,
7/  The changed definition of urban areas has resulted in many rural areas
being classified as urban during the past two years. This has resulted
in a lower overall urban service level from an estimated 74% for water
and 34% for sewerage in 1980.
8/ On an annual basis the three minimum salary threshold corresponds
approximately to one-third of the national per capita income.



Table 5.2: MA3GINAL CO TNALYSS OF WATFR SUPPLY AND S1.1J1E SgE  NVEDIW  H0JFS  REVIBI
(aN.nLIEo BY CATIRxY) 1/
(Pre&e&t Values at a Discount Rate of 12%; PrTee of October 198)
1                      2                        3                        4
Weighted Average/Caroliated
Large elties            Medlnm [itiee         Fna1l Ccnmxdtfea                   Total
Capital Cities         (Pop. - 50,(0Dl)        (Pop. - 5-50,000)       (Pdp. -   5,nXXJ)         1,2,3             AUL
I.  Water Supply
a) Invejtinents (1(3 ORTN) 2/           4,609.7  (US$52.0 m)      484.2  (Us$5.5 m)      2,805.2  (US$31.7 m)    175.7  (USS2.0 m)         7,899.1        8,074.8
b) Invejt. per Person served ((RIN) 3/     11.4  (US$128.6)         9.7  (US$109.5)         12.5  (US$141.0)       14.6  (US$164.7)           11.6           11.8
c) ope-ting eo  ieo (1i3 ORl)             749.2  (u-5 m)          169.0  (US$1.9 m)        267.5  (US$3.02 m)      48.1  (UM-.54 m)        1,23.8         1,185.7
d) Volume sold (103 m3)               23,591.5                 39,372.4                 86,757.4                5,521.9                  364,721.3      370,243.2
e)  Aarginal cost (0I?N/nm3)                0.022 (US$0.248)        0.016 (IE'0.li)          0.033 (ll$O.37)        0.040 (US31.45)            0.029          0.0239
f) Non-tariff revenues (103 CNh           221.5  (US$2.5 m)        12.9  (US10.15 m)       IB5.8  (US2.1 m)         1.0  (US$.0113 m)        420.0          421.2
e) Preent Average Tariff (AZ/m ,
Aug. 1982)                            0.0211 (US$0.238)   -   0.0197 (1U$0.222)        0.0251 (UMSO.2B)       o.0222 (US.25)             0.0220          o.022a 
h) % AFTATarginal.co3t                     96                     123                       76                     56                         92             92
i)  Covenanted averge, tarlff (ACT/m3) 4/   O.0235 (US$0.265)       0.0239 (USi0.270)        0.02B (Us.32)1         0.0256 (US0.29)            0.0252         0.0252
j) % ACT/Marginal cot                     107                     149                       85                     64                       1D5             105
k) Inves4ments per conn. served (CiI)      56.4   (US$636-4)       43.8   (LW494.2)         66.5  (US$750.3)       73.0   (UE$83-7)           5B.5            58.9
II. KSeerage
a) Invebtmenta (103 ORTN)                   - 5/                8,917.5   (US$101.3 m)    715.6  (tE$8.1 m)         -                                      9,695.1
b) Invciut. por penion served (Cafl)        -                      11.9   (us$134-3)        25.5  (U3$287.7)        -
c) operatin, exjnsea (Io3 mRI)              -                   1,334.9   (US1i5.1 m)      IR1.7  (US$2.1 m)        -                                      1,516.5
d) Vol'um sold (103 m3)                     -                 528,80.6                  27,697.0                    -                                    556,501.6
e) MNrginl cost/m3                          -                       0.0146 (IEO.165)         0.0316 (ISM.357)       -                                         0.0155
f) Non-tariff revemnu   (103 CTIN)          -                   2,575.3   (US9.1 m)         10.8   (tS$).122 m)    -                                       2,586.1
g) APT/m3                                   -                       0.0196 (lS9.221)         0.0209 (US$0.236)      -0.0203
h) % APPT/iargir.lI cost                    -                     134                       66                      -                                        1
i) Covenanted average tariff (Act/zn3)      -                       0.021.9 (0.246)          0.0242 (1L0.27)        -                                          0.023)
k) % ACT/Mtrgiral wet                       -                     149                       77                      -148
VotailIad calculationui for condolidated 3amplee ar available ih Annex 16 ai those of iblviduv l sub-projects are in the project fU.e.
2/ Invesbnents include engineering, and technical mntingencies. Foreign exchage hae b3 kahdcmw priced at 1.15 of the offIcial exdiarge rate  hl.e labor has beam ashAdw priced
at 0.9 of thae current wage. Invesdnents not related to incrnental benefita (pipeline replaoant, manaemt ablies) am exluded.
3/ PopLttinn aervad incr&seas irregularly during the project'B u&iful life. The coastant eqLd.valet (at 11%) rubr of prono .erved  XihTc  w   benaf5t anandly fran the
project is the equivalent pop;lation aerved (at an 11% discomt rate).
4/ Tariffs which would be required in 193 for SWJa to c=apiy dith th  National Tariff Iaw. The omisaim ocniere the tariff  feabl   an 1 SW a hae alrtdyd pl&-7O
to canply with thse tariff levels and the redt are epece  to do ao ihort2y.
5/ NO RI'l incorporbting aatikfacatory least,-cot analysis were ready at the tie of appraisal.



- 30 -
minimum water charges are only about 1.6% of the minimum salary.  Connec-
tion charges, which are very low, are being phased out by BNH making water
services accessible to all.   The combined water and sewerage charges are
57% of the values allowed by the Tariff Law and represent only about 2.8%
of the minimum salary.   Under the covenanted tariffs, the minimum water
charges, even if increased in proportion to the average tariff increases,
would remain well below Tariff Law allowances and below 3% of the minimum
salary, which is satisfactory (Annex 16).
Project Risks
5.09       The project would present no significant technical risks since
most of the works to be undertaken do not involve special engineering re-
quirements, and the country has a well developed engineering and construc-
tion industry.   Cost escalations to levels that would jeopardize the pro-
ject's worth are unlikely. Overall the project presents lower than average
risks as only economically sound subprojects and those meeting the selec-
tion criteria would be financed. BNH's supervisory experience gained under
previous projects will be consolidated and improved upon during this pro-
ject. The beneficiaries of the project include several SWCs that have not
been included in previous Bank loans.  Some of these SWCs, as well as some
of those included in previous loans, are still weak.  The project scope is
equivalent to a multiple of more traditional projects in the sector. Bank
supervision efforts would be critical, especially during the first two
years, when BNH's institutional development program is being implemented
and when the new SWCs are being familiarized with Bank procedures. Other-
wise, there would be a substantial risk that the institutional improvements
would not be achieved.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       As a condition of loan effectiveness, the first on-lending con-
tract (CTN or CTE) between BNH and three SWCs and States should be signed
(para. 3.12 and L.A. 6.01(b)).
6.02        As a condition for loan disbursement,  the on-lending contract
between BNH and the SWC and State should be signed (para. 3.12 and L.A.
2.02(a)).
6.03         During loan negotiations,  assurances were obtained from the
Federal Government that:
(a)    the Government will provide or cause BNH to provide the required
counterpart funds (para. 4.11 and G.A. 2.01(b) and (c)); and
(b)    the revenue covenant and financial recovery plans will be met
(para. 4.10 and G.A. 3.02(b)).
6.04      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from BNH that:
(a)   the Bank, the Guarantor and BNH will periodically exchange views
on tariffs (para. 1.19, G.A. 3.03 and L.A. 4.06(c));



- 31 -
(b)   a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for a national rate
system for sewage collection and treatment services based on a
study prepared under Loan 1525-BR will be presented to the Bank
before September 30, 1983, and promptly implemented in accordance
with an agreed upon schedule (para. 1.20 and L.A. 4.08).
(c)   recommendations made under the technical assistance program for
the monitoring of the SWCs by BNH will be implemented in accord-
ance with an agreed upon schedule (para. 2.04 and L.A. 4.07);
(d)   the technical  assistance  program to BNH will be completed by
September 30, 1984; and views will be periodically exchanged on
the program (para. 2.04 and L.A. 4.07);
(e)   the technical assistance pilot projects will be implemented in
accordance with the EVGs (para. 2.12 and L.A. Schedule 5);
(f)   SWCs internal audit units will  be  established  and  staffed  by
December 31, 1984 (para. 2.14 and L.A. Schedule 5);
(g)   annual external audits of BNH and the SWCs will be made and re-
ports presented to the Bank by April 30 for BNH and May 31 for
the SWCs.   Reports should cover compliance with financial cove-
nants and statements of expenditures (para. 2.15, L.A. 4.04 and
L.A. Schedule 5);
(h)   eligibility criteria for the SWCs to become loan beneficiaries
will include : (i) presentation of an EVG (1983-87) satisfactory
to BNH and the Bank; (ii) presentation of an institutional deve-
lopment program, satisfactory to BNH and the Bank, (iii) a plan
satisfactory to BNH and the Bank, to comply with the Tariff Law
in 1983, or in special cases, to comply by 1985 at the latest;
(iv) compliance with existing loan covenants if already included
in Bank's current projects; and (v) full commitment of loan funds
if already included in Bank's current projects (para. 3.04 and
L.A. 3.01(g));
(i)    BNH will review annually compliance with the on-lending condi-
tions for the SWCs and the states and submit a proposal, satis-
factory to the Bank, including remedial measures and suspension
of new financing of subprojects, if required (para. 3.04 and
L.A. 3.01(h));
(j)    Bank disbursement for subprojects in Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paulo will be limited to 45% of the Bank Loan (para.
3.04 and L.A. 2.02(a));
(k)    all subprojects will meet agreed-upon selection criteria (para.
3.06 and L.A. 3.04);



- 32 -
(1)    the  Bank will  be  given  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  major
changes in the EVGs (para. 3.09 and L.A. 3.06(b));
(m)    terms and conditions, as agreed-upon, will be incorporated in all
on-lending agreements (para. 3.12 and L.A. 3.01(a));
(n)    loan funds will be committed through CTNs or CTEs by December 31,
1986 (para. 3.14 and L.A. 2.03(c));
(o)    semi-annual field supervision of each project SWC will be made
and progress reports will be provided by April 30 and October 31
(para. 3.16 and L.A. 3.03(c));
(p)    project completion report will be prepared within four months of
the loan closing date (para. 3.16 and L.A. 3.03(d));
(q)    the SWCs will follow procurement procedures  in accordance with
Bank guidelines as agreed upon and a general procurement notice
will be up-dated annually (para. 3.18, L.A. 2.04 and Schedule 3);
(r)    BNH will set tariffs in order to cause each project SWC to comply
with the NTL (para. 4.10 and L.A. 4.06);
(s)    counterpart fund requirements will be reviewed each November and
funds will be timely provided (para. 4.11 and L.A. 3.01(c)); and
(t)    monitoring indicators will be prepared by BNH prior to September
30, 1983 (para 4.12 and L.A. 3.07).
6.05        Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$302.3 million to the Banco Nacional da Habitacao for a
period of 15 years including a three year grace period. Retroactive finan-
cing for up to US$15 million for expenditures incurred after January 1,
1983 is also recommended (para. 3.21 and L.A. 2.02 (c)(i)).



ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECr. PROJECT
Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Stupply and Sewerage
Year Loan Nb.   ATount/Borrower               Purpose                Status as of 12/31/82                  Cbments
(US$ Millions)                                   Cmmuitments    Disbursements
1971    757-BR    22.0  City Water  Sao Paulo water distribution        100%            1001%        Project performance audit
Company     and storage (SAEC/SABESP)                                       report dated April 4, 1980
1971    758-BR    12.0  City Water  Sao Paulo sewage collection         1007%           100.         ITdem. Loan amonrt reduced
Company     and disposal (SANESP/SABESP)                                     from US$15 million
1974   1009-BR    36.0  BNH         Water supply and sewerage in        100%/o          100%         Project completion report
the State of Minas Gerais                                       dated 06-10-81
1976   1309-BR    40.0  BNH         Water supply and sewerage in        100%C            1007        Project completion report
the State of Minas Gerais                                       under preparation
1978   1525-BR   110.0 BNR          Sewage collection and                737              447        Failure to gain participation of
disposal in the city of Sao                                     3 nunicipalities. Cost overruns
Paulo                                                           and financial constraints
1979   1656-BR   100.0  BNH         Water supply and sewerage            91%              391%       Estimated completion two years
in the States of Bahia,                                         delayed, by end 1984. W1Aknesess
Ceara, and Pernambuco                                           of SCs.
1980   1823-BR   130.0  BNH         Water supply and sewerage in         91%              347%       Problens at start.  Estin-
the states of Parana, Santa                                     ated completion tWD years
Catarina, and Rio Grande do                                     delayed, by end 1984
Sul
1980   1850-BR   139.0  BNH         Third Minas Gerais Water             82%              33-%       Project execution satis-
Supply and Sewerage                                             factory and on schedule
1981   1970-BR   180.0  BNH         Miltistate Water Supply and          31%              20%.       low coimnitnent and dis-
Sewerage Project in the States                                  bursement pace.  Weaknesess
of Anazonas, Gbias, M. Grosso                                   of SWCs.
do Sul, Para, Paraiba, and the
Federal District.
Total:           769.(



BRAZI L
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH) ORGANIZATION CHART
Administrative
Council
IIEI
BNH President
TehiclAv ism                                 a        n     i      o
UsersFiles       Research   UGov     r baent R eeloa entiitr  AuindSim                                     tnuacn
Programs          E~~Infrad mation          Daan
Adn,  strat ve           inDat                 Hoate aedg' SanitationdLadcqsiio
Uccosntings               DouenserhUbnDvlpntk'
Eradication
Data ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~tt
Processing
r            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
VVorldBan k - 221 58



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BNH - COSAN ORGANIZATION CHART/
Director
Superintendent
|  Depu ty  l   l       |                                        P    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Docu ment      B il I i ng
DeputyAdiitaieSrcs
Superintendent                                                         Dii
Administrative  1-|         Secretaries 
|  na ys s                                                         Tehnca
Procgramming                                                      TContoAdiser                                                   Finance Adviser
Adviser
Technical           Programs &
Programs             Analysis            Marketing &             Finance               Control              Inspection            Control of          FAE Control            Accounting
Department           Department         Cost Department         Department             Department           Department           SFS Resources          Department            Department
Department
1/ COSAN is under the Director of complementary housing programs which include water
supply, sanitation and urban development.
World Bank-24470
N.'
roi
O '



BRAZIL
WA1R SUPPLY AND SR*7(MWF. 581    PIPr(
Sootitotional Daerview of SCs
State                                                                                                                                    Federal                                                           Msto Grosso
(SWC)               Acre            Alagoas            Maps          Anaoas             Bshla           Ceara        Pspirito Santo      District          Dbias          Maranhao        Msto Grosso         do SDl        Minas Gerais
Irstitutional Area                           (S0A1ARE)         (CASAL)          (CAESA)         (G04M1)         (t23ASA)         (C82SY)           (CESAN)        (_AES8)           (sANE6 M))      (CAR14A)          (SAM4186)        (SANESJL)         (CO3PASA)
Organization
Number of directors                               3               4                3                4               5                 6               3                4                5                4                5                5                6
Sirber of engineer/professionals                  8              46                9               60             310               120              81              133              123              132               98               81              448
NPiber of employees                             239             917              208              976            4353              1272             1077            1663             2472             1569              801              842             5359
1mber of regional offimes                         6               7              N.A.               -              14                 6               3                -                7                5                5                11                3
N,aneI  of systems in operation                   9               95               8               40             278               102              43                6              112              103               53               50              226
NIbesr of systens to be operated(1987)           15             N.A.              71              N.A.            500               293             N.A.               6              253              131               71              128              N.A.
Water Conecstions (000)                         158              125.4             16.6          1195             651.2             179.6            178.1           291.6            255.0            136.3             92.8             133.6           965.5
Sewer Connections (000)                           -                5.9              1.3             -              66.8              36.8             15.8           187.7             66.8             34.5              8.8             23.6            372.1
Planning
Globsl feasibility study                        yes             yes              yes 8a                           yyes                               n               yes              yes               W               yes              ye8                No
tegree of definition of                                                                                                                                         need political
tnvestment plan                          incipient         adequate         incipient         odosoced        advanoed         advanced         advanced         decision          peer             poor             poor           advanced       need   uw,er.
decision
Engineering
Project preparation                       Cjossltant        Co nsultants      Consultants      Consultants     Colnsltants    Otknsoltants       Co-suitants       bonsultants      consultants    (o-ssitants        Consultants    Consultants          N.A.
Supervision of project preparation
and execution (fIt)                         1MS3             4313ENE            L129S            FeMA          SUD1NF2          RDENl            Ff2MA            fEZMA              FEE84           9UIF48           FP88             CRIERS            CGIEC
Dist.Netwnrk/connrction(  /)                     17                9              15                9              11                14              11               17               17               11               16                14               17
Seerage/connection (sic)                          -               12              27                0              15                18               -                is              15               12                9                12               14               c
Inlber of treatment plants                        8               28               4               23             160                24               33               4                -               27                13               9               146                1
knac,nunted-for8nter(X)                          36               31              40                -              44                26               37               33               35              49                35               45               31
Pinancial M-nagement and
Accounting/Auditing
llniform HNH System                             yes             y29              Yes              yes             yes              yes              ye               yes              yes              yes              ye`s             y                ysS
Oow,outarized                                                                                     29s                               yes        beiNg implemtd.       yes              yes         being impl-etd.                        yes
Issanee of accountiog reports-
tine after end of mr,nth                  2    tstman                                    no msyor delays    2 months          2 manths                           /month           /month           2 months         /-moth          1/2 sonth       1 1/2 osoths
Depreciation espense X                            2.2              2.1             6.0                              2.0               4.3              5.0              2.5             1.7              3.0              5.0              3.0
lnternal audit                                  No               No              N.A.              No            yes                Nn              yes               No              Yes               No               ND               56              yes
8rternal audit                                   No       Yes-state audit         No              yea             yes               yes             yes              yes              ye               yes              y's              yes              yes
Commercial
Months billings in receivables                    2.3              1.3              1.9                             2.0               2.8              2.2              1.4              3.0              4.8              2.2              2.8
Mleterig - 7 mtered                               0        Nom. 78                59                               45               5O             N.A.              48               23                14               13               19       t of billg. 78
Metered/Produted Volume()                         -               57              59               32              47                24               15              67                20              17                19               17               53
- number of stera (103)               N.A.              83.4              7.4             73.8           292.8             27.1             13.7             86.4             59.4             22.8             35.3             23.5            493.3
- repair capacity                                        -                -                -             170               65                -              120               80                -                -               80                -
Seroice regulations                             yes             yes              N.A.             N.A.            yes              yes              yes              N.A.             N.A.             yes              yea              N.A.
Prsmoti-n of new custorers                       No               56             N.A.             N.A.             56                No             298              N.A.             N.A.              N.              yes              N.A.
Admdnistration
Personnel
A-erage salary US$/year                        2860             4290            2150              N.A.           3610              3860             5190            3220              N.A.            2350             4520              3980             3190 3
Employes turnover                                 8                3               13             N.A.              I                 3              N.A.              2                 7               8                 1                6              N.A.
Number of employees/lOCO co-ections              15.1              7.0            11.6              8.2             6.1               5.9              5.6              3.5             7.7               9.2              7.9              5.4              4.0            s-x
Staff trained in 1981                             -              19%              65              127             101               242              73                -               21              230               69              214              2522
Physical inventories                            yes             yes              yes              yes             yes              yes              yes              yes              Yea              yes              yes               -
Data Processing lnformation System
SWG Cnmputer7service bWresu                               Servc  bta                        8A/Serv.bureau SWC/Serv.boreau                     Service bureau                   842/Serv.bureau  Service &ureau         N.A.       SC/Se-v.usreas
Gbligati-o to use state                                      Partial                            partial            No                              Total                            Partial           Total             No               No
Quality of service                                          IEcellent                            Fair             Good                             Fair                               Weak            Fair             Weak             Weak



BRA2LL
WA7E   SVPPLY MV 5SEARAGF SICIOR PR(1J&7 
Institut nai (es1-A- of IW
State                                                                                                                    Pd. Crande        Pdio (Yrran
(SW )                Para            Paraih.           Parana        Penmambuc            Piaui       Ri. de- .1a  iro     do Norte          do Sol          Rorl-t.           R ats         Santa Catarina    Sao Paulo           Sergtpe
Institutiorl _ea                               (r:n8ANPA)       (CA4GEOA)         (SANEPAR)       (OMISA)           (ACFI;PTSA)   _(rUX)               (rAFjRN)   _     (00RWA)           (_FR)            _CW              (CAAN  _         (SAESP)            (rFqO)
hkmler ofdirectors                                 4                1                6                 5               3                 7                4                6                 1                 1                5                7                 3
Ntr,be of eap;iner/prof.saioni1s                  50              101              213              172               46               501               6S              216                to                5               1 Y+            1694                49
Nl ber of erployees                             115()            1519             3381             1359              851            11,170             11h              4285               161              112             2270            20,726               790
l4Anber of rejd-nl offi,es                         2                5                4                9                5                 S                5                 5              N.A.               6                 8                h                35,
Number of system   in operation                   52              M?)              264              17               Ini               122               93              240                 3               16               135              402                54
Numher of syster  to be operated(1987)            7n              121              435               193             14n              7227              144)             N.A.              N.A.              17               164              N.A.               65
Water Co-ectiona (OO(1)                          197.6            22)). )          799,7            544.11           134.0            1843.2            171.5            821.8              18.5              9.0             305.8           2835.1             113.4
Seter Oonnecttons (O 0)                           16.0             463             231.2            125.5              2.n            122(1.5            13.7             65.9               1.3              1.5              21.4           1489.5               S.8
Planntng
C-oba'i feasibility studY                        y..              yes              yes               yes             ye.                e               yes              yes              yws               yes               yes              yesye
D)egree of definttton of
tnvesrment plan                            advanced          advand             ad,anced          pror             poor              poor            advance          advs,si          tn-tptent        ftacipient        advanced          poor              poor
Fnginertrig
Project preparati,n                         a-,1sIltants       C-Ast-ttat         in hous         ConItat            zsltanta cb6utrants Cosu    tants                 r>xAsultants        N.A.          rbaalitants       COnsultants   Cwsltanits              N.A.
S-spervttoo of p-oj-t preparation
and executon (OT)                              RK5              mmF7          9RIIWEA           SVbNF.           M3EWF             n1mI             SUN.              IMS               MS                 UNyS          Ct;rSB            CldE               SUI                     |
Dist.Nttrh/cnr.ecton (nc)                   10                8               21                8               13                1(               10               14                Z1                                 19               12                10 
Se-erage/cotrnectitan (m/d)                                        13               18                8               24                 6               12                7                20                                 13                11                5 
Nulber of treatr.ent plants                       11               71                -               177              13                32               38               112                4                 -               83                 -                _
Vnaccouted-for water (Y)                          51               44               34               46               35                19               39               42               N.A.               34               44                33               30
Fin       mangm ent and
1rnfomt 8N8 S'ystem                                      yes       ves             yeys                             y..                ye-s             W.o              yeves                     Y          es     yes                       yes      yesY
V>mputari2d                                                       yes              yes-                                                yes                               ye.                          hltng impletmd.         yesyeys
Iqssan,e of Wcounoting ePorts-
tixe after end of roth                      2 roths            N.A.          t/2 roths          2 mots          3 -oth.        1 112 roth.           /tronth         /ronth              N.A.         I 1/2 noths        /month           /toth             /wnath
DePreciation expense X                             2.9              2.1              1.5               2.6             4.3               2.7              2.9               3.4            N.A.                2,5              2.h               2.7             34
Int-ma  adilt                                    yes               N.              yes              yes               Nh                N,               No               N.               N.A.              N.               yesye                               No
~t'xeml a,Odit                                    ye              ye.              yes              yes              yes               yes              yes              )es                N               N.A.              ysyes                              yes
Gnrcial
tionthsbtillirgs in recivables                     1.9               1.2              2.1              1.9             2.6                1.5             2.4               1.5                                3.1              2.h               3,(7             2.1
Yeterin  - X neerd                                I,,              22               66               34               33                22               29               49               N.A.              h6                56                97          N,m. 73
MeterediProduced V.1-m  (7)                       St               44                34               46              35)               19               39                42              N.A.               34               44                33               30
- nue- of teters (103)                  Sl.8             162.5           638.3             220.2            55,n             212.9              72.3            574.4               2.4            N.,A.             181.4           2287.3             72.1
- repair capacity                      2(0              19(             factory            150               _                                   -              300                 -                               145                  
Servic  mglaations                                                N.A.             N.A.             yer              yes               yes              yes              N.A.              N.A.             yes               N.A.              N.A.             yes
Prorotlon of ne  -uStomors                                        N.A.             N.A.              No              yes                ND               e               N.A.              N.A.               No              N.A.             N.A.              yes
A&dnlistr.tion
Avera.   salary 111;$Ivr                        346(              N.A.             N.A.            410(             273)              5hI)l            3760             4300              463()              N.A.            1721              50603h0                             .
f:nployes turnovr 7.                             N.A.               6                5              N.A.               8                 2                5                 5              N.A.             N.A.              N.A.                S9                              tt
Nurber of efflpyeps./l000 cotrnetions              5.4              5.7               3.1              5.(             6.3               3.6              6.3               4.8              7.9              iO.7              h.9               4.8              6. 
Staff traited in 1961                            81(              685             Wn88              365              131               691              298               358                -                 -                 -          12,072                5h6
Physical Invntorios                              yes              yes              ysyes                             ye.               Y9               ysyes                              N.A.             yes               yes               Y9yesc
Data Ptocessing/lrufo ~ti-t Syster-r
%C.                                               SWU        RECSr.uPz           C/Serv.buteal                   %i.Sr.uwu              SC         SC/Serv.hureau  Service Fum-t             N.A.       Service p,,,ao  -evc  lNu              Servic  bbreau SWC/Ser,.W-t
Obligation to us   tate                        partial         Partial           Partlal                            partia             N.             Partial           Tntal              N.A.             Nn               Part tal           N,A.            P.,tiai
O,ualty of service                               N.A.           WeAk              Cood                               Fair             Cood             Fair              Fair              FAir             C"s              Far               C"o               Fair



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Credit Lines Under PLANASA
1.         Under the project, BNH would make subloans for approved subpro-
jects of the SWCs using its basic lines of credit (REFINAG for water supply
and REFINESG for sewerage subprojects), as well as its FINEST II and III
programs.  BNH would also provide loans to states for subproject benefit-
ting a high percentage (70%) of the urban poor.  These loans would be pas-
sed to the SWCs on a grant basis. REFINAG and REFINESG provide subloans to
SWCs to cover one-half of the cost of subprojects in medium-size or capital
cities, with the other half of the cost being financed from FAE subloans.
These subloans are made at interest rates of 2.5% to 10.5% per annum on the
outstanding balance which is adjusted for inflation according to the ORTN
index, for terms of 18 years (water supply) to 30 years (sewerage) includ-
ing grace periods of 1.5 to 4.5 years.   BNH under its FINEST II credit
lines provides loans to a state in the same amount that the state has al-
ready passed on as contributions to the SWCs' water and sewerage subpro-
jects in small communities.  Its FINEST III program matches funds provided
by the states to finance specific water or sewerage subprojects in small
communities. The states -- under both FINEST II and III -- transfer BNH's
loan contributions to the beneficiary SWCs to finance the approved subpro-
jects.   For small communities  the SWCs receive 70% of the subprojects'
costs as grants.  Terms of FINEST loans are essentially the same as those
under BNH's REFINAG and REFINESG credit lines, but interest rates are
slightly lower (Attachment 1).



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Sanitation Loan Interest Rates
BNH Loans to
State (SWC)                  SWC    STT
Acre (SANACRE)                             2.5      2.0
Alagoas (CASAL)                            4.0      2.0
Amapa (CAESA)                              2.5      1.0
Amazonas (COSAMA)                          4.0      2.0
Bahia (EMBASA)                             5.5      2.5
Ceara (CAGECE)                             4.0      2.0
Espirito Santo (CESAN)                     4.0      2.0
Federal District (CAESB)                   6.5      2.5
Goias (SANEAGO)                            4.0      2.0
Maranhao (CAEMA)                           3.5      2.0
Mato Grosso (SANEMAT)                      4.0      2.0
Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL)               4.0      2.5
Minas Gerais (COPASA)                      6.5      2.5
Para (COSANPA                              3.5      2.0
Paraiba (CAGEPA)                           3.5      2.0
Parana (SANEPAR)                           6.5      3.0
Pernambuco (COMPESA)                       5.5      2.5
Piaui (AGESPISA)                           3.5      2.0
Rio de Janeiro (CEDAE)                     9.0      3.0
Rio Grande do Norte (CAERN)                3.5     2.0
Rio Grande do Sul (CORSAN)                 7.5      2.5
Rondonia (CAERD)                           2.5      1.0
Rkraima (CAER)                             N.A.    N.A.
Santa Catarina (CASAN)                     6.5     2.5
Sao Paulo (SABESP)                        10.5     3.0
Sergipe (DESO)                             3.5     2.0
N.A. - Not available.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Subproject Selection Criteria
1.         All sub-projects should comply with the following conditions to
be acceptable for Bank financing:
(a)  they must have been included in the last EVG approved by BNH and
accepted by the Bank;
(b)  total  subproject cost should not be substantially higher than
that included in the EVG; if subproject scope differs substan-
tially from or costs are more than 30% higher than those contem-
plated in the EVG, satisfactory evidence must be presented to BNH
and the Bank that their inclusion and financing will not dete-
riorate the SWC's financial position; and
(c) subprojects must be the least-cost solution.
2.        Calculations of long-run incremental costs for subprojects and of
present value and long-run incremental cost for least-cost analysis should
use an annual discount rate equal to the opportunity cost of capital (11%)
or another value agreed upon between BNH and the Bank. These calculations
will be based on the subprojects' capital costs, operating costs and com-
plementary investments.
3.        Water supply subprojects to be carried out in cities with popula-
tions greater than 50,000 must either have average water tariffs 1/ equal
to or greater than 75% of the long-run average incremental cost or an IFR
of not less than 5%.
4.          Sewerage subprojects or water supply subprojects to be carried
out in cities with populations between 5,000-50,000 must either have sewer-
age or water tariffs equal to or greater than 60% of the long-run average
incremental cost or an IFR of not less than 1%.
5.          In cases where the IFR is used as the selection criteria, BNH
should in addition prepare a financial analysis of the subproject demon-
strating that the subproject does not have a negative effect on the SWC's
projected cash flows.
1/    The average tariff used is obtained by dividing the revenues from
water (or sewerage) services by the respective volume billed in each
city.  When the present tariff does not satisfy the selection crite-
rion the average tariff (in constant prices) to be implemented within
the following 12 months would be used for a second analysis.



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
6.          Subprojects or group of subprojects to be carried out in com-
munities with populations of less than 5,000 must have a per capita con-
struction cost 2/ of less than US$180 in 1980 prices.
7.   Subprojects not meeting the applicable criterion must be redesigned to
lower acceptable standards, or appropriately phased with due regard to
lowering costs.  If the subproject does not fulfill the criterion after it
has been redesigned, it will be eligible for Bank financing only if a
satisfactory social and economic justification is furnished to the Bank.
The social and economic justification will be made on a case-by-case basis
and will consider, among other things, closeness to the acceptance limits,
percentage of urban poor served, impossibility of providing water by other
means or having additional revenues, health conditions of the population,
and evaluation of benefits on other sectors of the economy.
2/    Construction cost divided by the population to be served after the
project construction is completed.



BRAZIL
WATER SUPR5Ly AN!' SEWERAGE SECTOR CRPOJEC!
Rietailed Lost Table
'dUPC  T'.o~
Table 101. SANACRE - ACRE                           Ta3ble 102. CASAL - ALAGOAS                         Table 103. CAESA-AMAPA
Vonit    1903   18 Fgi  TOS    148c    48   TMOIa         1983    1984      1985     108c      l98-1   Total      1983 1984 19805  1986    1987  Total
1~INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. CAP'ITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                          Glob,        - 50.6   69,0   35.5   67.0   222,1 1!383,0 1,404,8   85921                    -        -  3,647,1       -    -      - 63.2          -   63.2
DISTRIBUTION                        Glob,    1609   150O   13;1   46,8   51.9    143,1    45.8    41.3    55.6    67,6    67.8    278.1                   - 24tl 12 7   11~4          -   48.3
CONNECTIONS                         Glob.      7,      2.7    3.0    3.,2    3.5    14.9         64.1     59.5    90.8   110.8   110.8    436.0           -     -     -               -       -
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                           19.3   60.3   85,1   85,6  121.9    300.1 1,493,0 1,505.7 1,005.6   170.4    178.6  49361,2                 - 24.1 12,7   74.6          -111.5
2~ 5 BIG CITIES
5 DIG CITIES                       5Olob.    23.8   20.7   20.7   28.7   16.5   102 .31             -   343,7   912.1 1,175,9   123.3  2,555.1            -16.0       -       -       - 16.0
3, MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                  Glob.        -       -       -       -       -        -    41.8   149.0   111.4    22-3   413.3    737,9              -    -     -        -       -       -
4 SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                   Glob.    8.3   24.0   22.3   22.3   22.3    99_3    60.2              32.2    61.0    86.8   165.3    405.a           -    - 41,4    17.1   31.21   09,8
Sib-Total WATER, SUPPLY                             51~4  112,9  128 1  128.5  160.8   581,7 1,595.0 2,030.6 2,090.1 1,463,4   880.6  8,059.7                    -40.2 541t   91 8   31.12  2117,3
B. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                        Glob,   88.3  189.1  246.6  326.7  _364.6 1,215.2   141.4    65,6    13.2   273,5   287.5                 781.2                40        -    63 9,
2OTHER CITIES                                                                                                                                                       2.               63 9,
OTHER, CITIES                       Glob.        -       -       -       -       -        -        -         -        -2'06.7    206,7    413.3                                         
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                  08.3  189.1  246.6  326.7  364.6 1,2115,2    141.4          65.6    13.2   480.1   494.2  1,194.5           -    - 24.0              66.3   90.3
Ci EQUIIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                               Glob.   19.7   16.5   16.5   16.5   16.5    85.8           33.1      33.1    33.1    33.1       33.1     165.3       -    -         -            -       -
ENGH~INEERING -ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                             Globt   17:2   33.4   40,0   48.4   54.9   194.8   183.1   218,7   217.2   201.3   143.1                 963.3   4.8  0.0  8.8        9,2    9.8   41.4
DES1IGN                                 Glob.       -       -       -       -       -        -    20.1    28.1    12.4    12.4          12.,4     93.4       -    -     -        -       -       -
INSTITIITIONAL DIEVELOPMENT             Gloot     12S~  ISO~  17~4    12.5.    6.7    64:9    33~9         20 ,4    23~1      24:0    19.0      129.5  47 9 40.3 10,3          -        -  106.6
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION              29       92 5.           09 6.           5.        41      26        5        3,       7,      '8.    275,    92             92       90 148. 
Total INOESTMENT COSTS                                189.1  36? 7  449 5  53?'7  603,5 2!142.4 2,014~6 2,405 4 2.389 1 22114t2  1,5023 10,605,7  52.7- 97,3 97,3  100.Q  107.3  455,6
Total DASELINE CYSTS                                   189.1  36 7 7  449.5  532.7  603.5 2,142.4 2.014 2.1405,4 2.389 1 2t214.2 1-502,3  10.605.,7  521.7 97.3 97.3  100,9  107.3  455.6<
lIecetber 10i 1982  16130



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AMID SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Cast Table
IOPC 00GW
Table 104, COSAMA-AMAZONASTable 1055  EMBASA-BAHIA                                              Table 106. CAGECE-CEARA
Unit   1983    1984    1985   1986   1987  Total           lp~l    1904      1985    lVOt      1987    Total        1983    11984    1985    1986    1987    Total
1. IN(ESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER. SUPPLY
1. CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                         Glob,    41.3   326.3  326.3           -       -   693,9    454.'   785,3 1,240.0   413.3            -  29893.3           -                 -          
DISTRIBUTION                        Slob,   411 7   203,4   39,7  134,9  143,3   933,0    152 0   1529?   152,9   152.9   1529?    764.7                     -   2893    769 9    78,0    54,0  1,187.2
CONNECTIONS                        Glob,    2-6.8    28.5   30.3   32.2   34.2   152-1           43,0    43.0    43.8    48,8    52.1    232,.3              -    B89,7   298.4    41.3    40.6    470.0
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                          479,8   558.21  796.7  167,2  17'.6 1,779,0    651.4   982,1 1,436.7   61ST    205.0  3,898,3                   -   379,0 1,064.3   119,3    94.6  1,657,2
2 5 DIG CITIES
D IG CITIES                       Glob.       :'4     6.6    7,3    7,4    8,6    36.2    465,4   494,3 1,406.2 1,826,0    96,7  4f289.6    123.3   403.7   322.4   188,9   106.5  1o144.8
3. MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                 Glob,    29,0    32.,5   32.5   31.2   S5.8   161.8    143.9   309,2 1,251.6 2F215,5 2,953,7  6.873.7    166.2   474,5   621.6   742.7.  583.1  2588. 1
4 SMALL COMNUNITTES
SMALL COMHLINITIES                 Glob,    15.5    15.5    7,4    7.0    8,0    53.4    586,9   506.9   586.9   586.9   82167  39174,4    606 -6   677,0   754.4   839,8   768.6  3i646,4
Sub-Total WATER SUIPPLY                            530.6   612,7  443,5  212,7  230,0 2.029 5  1,04',6 2.772,5 4,681.4 5,244.4 4,082.1 18,228.0    896.2 1,934.  2,762.7 1,890,7 1.552,8  9.03,6.5
B. SEW4ERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob.   330?7   248.0  289.3  413.3  479,5 1,760.8    206,1   132.3                -   330.7   322,4    992,0    159.4   398.3   496.2   389.7   401,7  1,845.3
2 OTHER CITIES
OTHED CITIES                       Glob.         -        -       -       -       -        -     19.8   310.0   402.8   520.8   578.7  1,912,1               -        -                 -        -         -
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                 330,7  2'48.0  789.3  413,3  479,5 1.760.8    226.5   442.3   402.0   8S0.S   901,1  2,984.1    159.4   398.3   496.2   389,7   401.7  1,845.3
C  EQUITPMENT
EQUIPMENT                    S~~~~~~~~lob.                         -                       23,3   -337, 3   281,1   206.7   545.6  1,893,9         62.6    66.7   117,9   166.8    85.2    499,1
C' ENGINFEERING - ADMINI~TRATTON
SUIPERVISION                           Slob.     Q4,7    95,4   01.3   65,6   73,7   410.7    127,3   329,0   768,0   605.9   407.5  2,238.6    144.0   2'0.7   362,5   266.8   223,9  1,267.9
DESIGN                                 Glob         -        -       -       -       -        -     57.9         -        -        -        -      57.9    123.2   192.2   132.7   104.7    84.0    636,8
INSTITUTIONAL DEOWLOPMFNT              Slob.     05 3    93.2   g 10    29,8   270    7 16.1    127,4   326.2   768.6   606.1   407.4  2-235,6    198.7   115 '   115,7   115.7   115.7    661,7
00 Z
Sujb-Total ENGINEERING, - 4DMINISTRATI0N           180 fl  188 i  161.3   95,5  101.5   724.9    312.a   655.2 1,537.4 1.212,1   014,9  4.532,1    465 9   57827   610,9   487.2   423.7  2,566:4                          "  <
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              1.041 2 O04Q    894~1  721.5  011.0 4.517.?  2.909,  3,807,3 6.982,6 7,1.   .3372.581150,   .'783977 2944263,4 13,947.4
Totzl OAWE INE COSTS                                 1.041 3 l,049 3  994,1  721.5  011.0 4.517,.:  q,9Q,9 3,600,7 6925  .10                 5347.' 2'.S5R.1 1.584 1 2,977.8 3,93'.7 7,934.4 2,463.4 13,947,4                  1
Oiecember 1)0 "I'S I53E



BR-AZIL
WATER SUPr-  40T ~FWCRAPF '(TM  PRJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Table lY?. CAESF-DISTR.ITO FEDERAL                        I  lOT10, CESAt4-ESPIRITUl SANTO                      Table fl99, SANEAGO-GOIAS
Unit   1083    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total          1?93    1984    1985    1986    1987   Total          1983    1984    1985    1?86    1987    Total
I. 1INTEYTMENT C09ST
A. WATER SUPPLY
I, CAPITAL CITY
TITTLICTION                       c50.   2184,9   196.0   245.3   196.3   184.3  1,106.?    139.4             -        -        -       -   139.4    T1"2.8 1,826.9   636.5   380.3            -  3,736.5
DISTRIBUTION4                      Glob,  2.448   185-2_  261,6   305I4   3109  1,307,9   517,2   225,8   458,6    46.8    483  1,2967!                     -        - l.289.6   496,0   719.2  2,504.8
CONNECTIONT                        Clob, .                                                          4,8    15.4    15.5    16.4    17.4    69.4          33.1    33.1    99.2    99.2   140.5    405.1
Tub-Tctal CAPITAL CITY                         529,6   381 .2   506.9   501.6   495.3  2,414,6   661.3   241.2   474,2    63,2    65.6 1,585.5    925,9 1,860,0 2,025.3   975.5   859.7  69646.4
2, 5 B10 CITIES
5 BIG CITIES                       Slob,   313,6   263.2   262.1   264,1               1,103,0        -    74.9    71,3    677.7    77.8   291.6          8,3   231.5   107.5   107.5    57.9    512.5
3MEDIUM SITE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                 Glob,        -                 -        .       -                                    -        --                      43.0   661,3   36337   291.8   293.5  1,653.3
4, SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                  Slob.        -        -       -                 -         -     88.9    61.2    84.4    68,6          - 303.1    446,4   214,9   372.0   248.0   190.1  1,471.5                        1
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                            84321   644,4   769.0   765.7   495,3  3,517.6   750.3   377,3   629.8   199.5   143,4 2,100,3  1,423,5 2,967.7 2.868.5 1)622.7 1,401.2 10,283.7
El, SEWERAGE
1, CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob,   675.9   994.0   785.3   785.3   702.7  3,943.2    248.8   409.8 1,234.8 1,193.0 13048.0 4.134.4    440.0 1,770,8   801.4 19044,1   677.9  4,734.1
2; OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                       Glob,   198,4   289.3   289.3   289.3   372.0  19438.4             -      5.0    49,6   620.0   620,0 1,294.6         18,2    77.7   415.0   806.8   770,5  2,088.2
Sub-Total1 SEWERAGE                               874.3 1.283.3 1,074.7 1,074.7 1,074.7  5,381.6    248.8   414,7 1,284.4 1,813.0 1,668.0 5,429,0    458.1 1,848.5 19216.4 1.850.? 1,448.3  6,822.2
C EOUlIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                             Glob,    16.5    16.5    16.5    12.4           -      62,0    231.5  2106.7   206.7    90.9    90.9   826.'          66.1    66.1    66.1    66,1    66.1    330.7
8. ENGINEERING - AD)MINISTRATION
SUPEPVISION                           Glob,   183.5   200,9   193.4   189.6   161.9    9291.3    134.7   119,5   231..7  212.8   192.4   890,7    203.6   502.0   427.1   365.1   298.6  1,796.4
DESIGN                                Glob,    68.0    31.7    45.5    22.3           -    167.5    218.9   132.3   180.2    149?    14.9   371.2           47,1    55.4    37.2    28.9    28.9    197.6
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             Glob.    33,1    33.1    33.1    33.1    33.1    165,3          84,'    64,6    16.8        Q18     7.21  183.1       41.3    82.7    82.7    82.7    41.3    330.7
---  -     - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - -  -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION            284.5   265.7   272.8   244.9   195.0  1,262.2   247.8   316.4   428.7   237.5   214.5 1,445.0    292,1   640,1   546,9   476.7   368.9  2,324.7Z
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             29018,6 2,209i9 2,132.1 2,097.7 1,764.9 10,223.4 19478.4 193151l 2.549.6 2,341.0 2,116.8 9,801.0  2.239,9 5,522.5 49697?9 4!016,5 3,284.5 19,761.3                           aa
Total BASELINE COSTS                                2f018.6 2,209.9 2,132.1 2.097,7 1,764.9 10,2213.4 1,478.4 1315~1 2,549.6 29341,0 2?116,8 9,801.0  2,~239.9 5,522.S 4.697,9 4.016.5 3,284.5 19>1.J.3
Dlecembo;, I0. 1982 16!38



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOF PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(UPC '000!
Table 110. CAEIIA-IARP44HAD                          Table 111. SANEIAT-HIATO gIOSSO                  Table 112. SAMESUL-MATO OSSD  DO SVL
T-      bl-   110. _AE__-_-_- _-_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-------_-_-_-_----------_A_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-
Unit   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total         1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   Total         1983   1984   1985   1986    1987   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                        Glob.            -            -        -       -         -     92.6   206.7   129.0          -       -   428.2        -                       _        _
DISTRIBUTION                      Glob,   709.2   701.8   630.3   155.0   167,9  7,364.3         70.3    16.5    16.5       8.3      8.3   119,9        _          _      _              _        _
CONNECTIONS                       Glob.    30.7    29.3    28,7    27.6    30.0    146.3         24.8      8.3      8.3     4.1      4.1    49.6        -              _                 _
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                        739.9   731.2   659.0   182.6   197.9  2,510.6    187.7   231.5   153.8    12.4    12,4   597.7               -      -       -            -    -
2, 5 BIG CITIES
5 BIG CITIES                      Glob.   116.5   113.3   111.6   111.6   111.6    564.5    173.6    44.6   254.6   282.7   241.4   997.0               -       -       -       -        -
3. MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                Glob.   238.6   248.0   248.0   248.0   248.0  1,230.6    170.3    28.1    31.4    36.4    21.5   287.7               -       -       -       -        -        _
4, SMALL COMIIUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                 Glob,   101.5   141,7   243.0   116.4   140.2    747,8   380.3   380.3   248.0   248.0   248,0 1,504.5  107.5   66.1   33,1   529,1   796.1 1l531.8                                U
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                         1,196.4 1,234.1 1,261.7   658.6   697.7  5,048.5   911.8   684.5   687.8   579.5   523.3 39386.9  107,5   66.1   33.1   529.1   796,1 1,531.8
P, SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                      Glob,   217.7   789.4   684.9   854.9   652.3  3,199.2            -   662.2   730.8   914.3   892.8 3,700,0    74.4   33.1   33.1   400.9   330.7   872.1
2, OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                      Glob.        -   236.0   206.7   206.7   206.7    856.0           -        -    22.3    39.7   124.0   186.0    43.8   26.5   26.5   284.4   845.7 1,226.3
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                               217.7 1,025.4   891.6 1,061.6   859.0  4X055.2            -   662.2   753.1   954.0 19016.8 39386.0  118.2   59.5   59.5   685.3 1,176.3 29090.9
C, EQUIPHENT
EQUIPMENT                            Glob,    24.2    20.7    24.8   136.0   136.0    341.7           4.1     4.1      4.1      4.1     4.1    20.7   16.5   16.5   12.4    33.1    33.1   111.6
D. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                          Glob,   152.7   234.8   225.9   195.1   181.0    989.5         97.5   141.4   151.3   164.5   167.6   722.3    26.7   16.7   13.0   133.0   206.7   396.1
DESIGN                               Glob.    24.8         -       -        -        -     24.8     29.8    26.5    28.1    77.7    99.2   261.2    12.4   12.4   12.4    41.3    20.7    99.2
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMFNT            Glob.    63.7    67.8    81.8    96,7   122.3    432.3    33.1    33.1    33.1    33.1    33.1   165.3    12.4   12.4   12.4    41.3    41.3   119.9
_    --   -- - -   --- --   -- - -   ------   -- -- -   --- -- _-_--___ ____-_-   --- - -   -------   --- --   --- --                            .  _.._.___ _ __._.___ .   D
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION           241,1   302.6   307.8   291.8   303.4  1)446.7   160.4   200,9   212.5   275.3   299.9 1,148.9    51.5   41.5   37.8   215.7   268.7   615.2                        N
_______   -------_   _---- _ - - - - --   -- ---   -- -- -   -- - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - - -   - - -   - - -    - - - 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            1,679,5 29582.8 2Y485.8 2,148.0 11996.1 10,892.1  1,076.3 1,551,7 1,657.5 1,812.9 1w844.1 7,942.4  293.7  183.7  142.8 1,463.1 2,274.2 4,357.5
======= ======: ======= ==:===== ===:==: z=====z:=  ... =:= a======= ======= ======= =:=====x =======   S$s-  ==5=== ====:= :=--==  -=SS=== ==A4l-.                U)
Total BASELINE COSTS                               1,679.5 29582.8 2,485.8 2,148.0 19996.1 10,892.1  1,076.3 l1551.7 1,657,5 1,812.9 1844.1 7,942.4   293.7  183.7  142,8 1,463.1 2,274.2 4p357.5
Deceeber 109 1982  161'39



RAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERA6E SECTIR PIJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(UPS 1O00)
Table 113. COPASA-MINAS GERAIS                                 Table 114. COSAIPA-PARA                         Table 115. CAGEPA-PARAIIA
Unit   1983      1984      1985      1986      1987    Total       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   Total         1993   1984    1985    1986    1987   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1, CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                         Glob,   463,4    463,4    463,4    463,4    463,4  2,9317.1    639,3   524,9 1,065.0   426,9   142.7 29798.8                 -        -    73.6   131,1    67.0   271.6
DISTRIBUTION                       Glob, 2F628,0  2p628,0  2,628,0  2,628,0  2,628,0 13,139,9              -    70.3    74.4    90.1           -   234.8      5.1      5,5      5.7      6.0     6.4    29.7
CONNECTIONS                        Glob.,                                                               53.6    56.9    60.4    64.1    68.1   303,1         4,6      4.9      5.1      5.5      5.8    25,9
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                       3Y091,4  3,091.4  3,091,4  3,091,4  39091.4 15,457.0    692~8   652.1 1.199.8   581.1   210.8 3,336.7               9,8    10.3    84.4   142.6    79,1   326.2
2. 5 DIG CITIES
5816G CITIES                       Slob.        -         -         -    124,8    239.7    363.7    129.1   166.7   165.3   165.3   165.3   791,9    55.3   448.4   266.4   175.2    13.0   958.3
3. MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                 Slob,   397,6    962.2  1,475.6    882.9  1,193,7  4.912.1              -   344.7   165.3   165.3   165.3   840.7    41.3   381.9   2130.6   238.1   228.2 1.120.1
4. SMALL. COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                  Glob, 1,049.9  1,155.7  1,178.8  1,173.0  1,149.9  59707.3           79.8        -       -        -        -    79.8    58.4   130.6   115.6   100.0    90.9   495.6
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                          4,538.9  5,209.3  5,745.8  5,271.3  5,674,7 26,440.1    901.7 1,163.5 1.530,5   911.8   541.5 5.049.0  164.8   971.3   697.0   655.9   411.2 2,900.2
8. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob, 1,566,5  3,821.7  3,408.3  6,311.6  49589.7 19,697.8              -        -   248.0   496.0   413.3 1,157.3        8.7   101.5   578.7   520.8   694.4 1,904.1
2. OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                       Glob,   236.4    826.7    826.7    510.1            -2,399.8            -       -        -        -        -        -       -   152.4   192,4  2107.3   498.6 1,050.9
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                              1,803.0  4,648.3  4,235.0  69821.7  4,589.7 22,097.6                  -   - 248.0   496.0   413.3 1,157.3           8.7   254.0   771.1   728,1 1,193.0 2,954.9
C: EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                             Glob.   496,0    496.0    496.0    496.0    496,0  2,480.0              - 411.3   127,0           -        -   538.2       8.3    41,3    33.1    33.1    16.5   132.3
0. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                           Glob,   512.5  1,269.3  1,189.2  19223.7    948.5  5,143.3           99.2   167.0   197.2   147.4   102,1   712.8    26.0   132.9   155.4   147.1   166.5   627.9
OESION                                Glob,        -         -         -         -         -         -    23.6    28.3          -       -        -    51.8    25.6    16.1        9.9      9.9      5.0    66.5
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             Glob,    82.7       82.7     82.7      82.7      82.7    413.3       66,1    66.1    66.1    66.1    66.1   330.7    52.1    46.3    46.3    44.6    38.9   2128.2
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION            595.2  1,352.0  1,271.8  1,306.4  1.031;2  5,556.6   188.9  2161,4   263.3   213.5   168.2 1.095,3   103.7   195.3   211.6  2101.7   210.3   922,6                     tm1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             7.433,1 11,705.7 11.748.7 13,895.4 119791.6 56,574.3  1,090,6 1,836.2 2.168,8 1,621.3 1,123.0 7.839,9   285,4 1.461,9 1,712.9 1,618,8 1,831,1 6,910.0                         a,
Total DASELINE COSTS                                7,433.1 11,705.7 11,748.7 13,895.4 11,791.6 56.574,3 1,090,6 1,836,2 2t168,8 1,621.3 1,123.0 7.839,9   28-,4 1,461,9 1,712.9 1,618,1 1,831.1 6,910.0 
--  - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - ----    -  - - - -.--    - - -  - - - - -  -----     - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -
December 10, 1982 162~9



ItRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR POJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Table 116, SANEPAR-PARANA          (WC I 000)   Table 117. COIWESA-PERMANBCO                      Table 118. A6ESPISA-PIAUI
Unit   1983   1984    1985    1986   1987   Total       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   Total    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987  Total
1. INVIESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                       Glob.      -       -        -              -        -    616,7 1,240.0 1,653.3 1,240.0   576.2 5,326.2   57.9  206.7  214.9   35.5   47.1   562.1
DISTRIBUTION                     Glob,   15.5   120.0    92.8   84.5    80.8   393.6       28.9    33.9   38.9    43.8    48.8   194.3   24,8   53.7   76.1   81.8   75.4   311.8
CONNECTIONS                      Glob.   11.6    43.6    33.7   30.8    29.3   149.0       38.9    40.5    43.0    44,6    47.1   214.1    9.6   13.6   14.6   15.8   14.5    68.1
_- --    -- - -   -- - -   -- --   -----_____           _____     --- - - - -  - - --   - ----- - - - - -   --- --   -- - -   - ---  -- --   -- --   -- --   -- --   -- --   -------___ _           _____          ___ __   
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                      27,1   163.7   126,5  115.2   110.1   542.6    684.5 1,314.4 1,735.2 1,328.5  672.1 5,734.6   92.3  274.0  305.6  133.2  137.1   942.1
2. 5 BIG CITIES
5 BIG CITIES                     Glob.  88.5    66.1    66.1   88.4    66.1   375.2    103.3    43.0    33.9    38.0   620.0   838.2    33.1   66.9   65.1   82.3   90.7   338.0
3. MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES               Glob.  79.9   311.6   119.9   81.3  142.4   735.2    192.6   289.3   289.3   289.3   289.3 1,349.9    46.3  124.0  124.0  124.0  127.3   545.6
4. SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                Glob.  385.6  396.8   388.5  197.8   512.5 1,881.2        69.4        -       -                     69.4  240.7  250.3  260.4  270.8  281.6 1,303.9
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                        581.1   938.2   701.1  482.8   831.2 3,534.3  1,049,9 1,646.7 2,058,4 1,655.8 1,581.4 7,992.2  412.3  715.1  755.1  610.3  636.7 3,129.6
8. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                     Glob.   14.5   113.4    83.7  129.0   151.6   492.2        1.7     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5    11.6        -      -      -       -      -        -
2, OTHER CITIES
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
OTHER CITIES                     Glob,   38.1   210.8   158.6  105.0    88.9   601.4       24.0     7-4     8.3      8.3     9.1    57.0        -      -      -       -      -        -
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                             52.7   324.2   242.2  233.9   240.6 1,093.6       25.6     9.9    10.7    10.7    11.6    68.6         -      -       -      -       -       -
C, EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                           Glob.  26.5   271.1    46,3        -   343.1   687.0    346.4    79.4    44.6         -       - 470.4    23.1  134.7   67.1          -   35.4   260.4
D. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERYISION                         Glob,   86.6   173.3   119.0   79.1   177.1   635.1    153.9  184.3  219.6   174.9  167.5   900.2    46.7   88.5   85.5   67.6   70,5   358.9
DESIGN                              Glob,   41,3    49.6    57.9   57.9    57.9   264.5       34.7    24.0       -        -       -    58.7      6.6   11.6    8.3   41.3    8.3    76.1
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT           Glob,  165,3   148,8   148,8       -   297.6   760.5    82.7    82.7    82.7    82.7    82.7   413.3    24,8   24,8   24.8   24.8   24.8   124.0
-__    -------_--_----                           _   __   __    _-----   ------------- --           _        _____   ___   __        ------ __-_ 
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION        293.3   371,7   325,7  137,0  532.5 1 ,6'0.2   271.3  290.9   302.3   257.6  250.1 1,372.3    78.1  124.9  118.5  133.8  103,6   558.9                 r  x
_- -     -- - -   -- - -   -- --   -- - -   ------_    _-   - --- -_ - -_-- _-  _- -- - --- -    --- --   -- - -   - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - --  --__----__ _ _ _--   __ __ __           __ _ ___          
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           953,5 1,905,2 1,315.3  853.7 1,947.4 6,975.1  1,693.2 2,026.9 2,416.1 1,924.1 1,843.1 9,903.5   513.6  974.8  940.7  744.1  775.7 3,948.9               o
===::: ======= :=:=== ====== :: ==__===  ====:=: ======= =,====_= =====_= =====c= =====.=  -----  ------=== ====== ====== ====== ===== =
Yut,al BASELINE CoSTS                             953.5 1,905.2 10315,3  853,7 1,947,4 6-97 1  1,693.2 2,026.9 2,416.1 lP924.1 1,843.1 9,903.5   513.6  974.8  940,7  744.1  775,7 3,948.9
D===== =====1 1  ======= =9==8 :  ======= ==39===  ====== ====== ======= =====2= ======= =======  ====, ====, =,= .    ...... ,,=== ===
Deeetkber 10. 1982  16:39



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
'UPE '000~
Table 119, CEDAE-RIO.DE JANEIRO                      Table 120. CAERA-RID GRANDE DO NORTE                    Table 121. CORSAK-RIG GRAMDE DO SUL..
Unit   1983    1984       1985      1986      1987    Total      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   Total          1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total
T. INVESTMENT COSTS
A, WATER SUPPLY
1, CAPITAL CITY
FTROIIUCTION                       Glob.   575.0 1,327.0  1,512.6  1,551.3  2,063.5  79029.6           41.3    49,6   165,3   248.0   165.3   669.6             -        -        -        -       --
DISTRIBUTION                       Glob,    70.8   460.0    926,7    835.8    540,5  2,833.7           51.3    53.7    56,2    58.9    62.0   282.1             -        -                 -        --
CONNECTIONS                        Glob,    26.5    26.5       28.6      26.5      30.8    139.0       17.4    18.2    19,0    20.2    21.2    95.9-                              -                      
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                         672.3 1.813,6  2,467,9  2,413.6  2,634.8 10.002,3    109.9   121.5   240,6   327.0  2148.5 1,047,6                  -        -        -        -        --
2. 5 BIG CITIES
5 BIG CITIES                       Glob, l~649.4 1,141.2  1,639,8  2.083.2  2,165.0  8,318.3           79.9   180.2   142.2   1821.0   134.3   718,6    117.8   277.4   150.9    45.5    45.5    637,0
3, MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                 Glob.   623.7 2,074.7  2,070.5  2,110.9  1,749.0  8,628.7    251.0   188,0   108.1    60.2    62.21   669.4    471.2   894.3   940.6   925,9   866.3  470Y8,3
4, SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                  Glob.   101.7   190.1    497.8    503.4    476.2  1,769.2    289.21  334.0   286.0   181.9   187.7 1,278.7    121.5   124,0   124.0   124.0   124,0    617.5
---  -     - - -    - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - -      - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -     - - -    - - -    - - -    - - -    - - -    - - - -O
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                          3,047,2 5,219.7  6,716.0  7,111.2  7,024.9 29,118.9    730.0   823.7   776.9   751.1   632.6 3,714.3    710.5 1,295.7 1,215.4 1,095.3 1,035.8  5t352.8
B. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob.   525.7 1,653.3  1,653.3  1,653.3    826.7  6F312.3              -     41.3   148.8   248.0   248.0   686.1            -        -        -        -        -         -
2. OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                       Glob.   108.8   410.9    898.6    714.0    517.9  2,650.1              -        -        -    82.7   230.5   313.1        33.1   136,4   524.1   977.1   896.9  2,567.6
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                634.5 2.064.2  2,551.9  2,367.3  1,344.6  8.962.5                   41.3   148.8   330.7   478.5   999.3         33.1   136,4   524.1   977.1   896.9  2.567.6
C. EGUIPMENT
EOUIPMENT                             Glob, 1,093.8    37.2    146.9         56.1         -  1.334,1      28.9    33.9    38.9    43.0    46.3   191.0             -        -        -        -        -         -
D. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                           Glob,   580.9   812.4  1,033.5  1,004.2  1,026.0  4.456.9           65.3    88.9    96.4   140.9   135.0   526.5    116.6   187.7   218.9   251.1   236.8  1,011.1
DESIGN                                Glob,   123.8   141.5        10,3         -         -    275.6      22.7    26.9    14.1        9.9     4.1    77.7       58.7    79.4    80.2    68.6    66.1    35.0           ~
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             Glob.   909.3   661.3    826.7    507.6  1,889.8  4.794.7    248.0    49.6    49.6    49.6    49.6   446.4    363.7   366.2   369.5   369.5   369.5  1.838'5 
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION          1Y614.1 1,615.2  1,870,4  1,511.7  2,915.7  9,527.2    336.0   165.3   160.0   200.5   188.7 1,058.6    539.0   633.3   668.6   689.2   672.5  3.202,6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             6,389.6 8,936.3 11,285.2 11,046.3 11,285.2 48.942.6  1,095.0 1.064,3 1,124.6 1,325.2 1.346,1 5,955.1  1,282.6 2,065,4 2,408.2 2,761.6 2.605.2 11.123.0                     .D
Total BASELINE COSTS                                6,389.6 8.936.3 11,285.2 11,046.3 11,285.2 48,942.6  1,095,0 1.064,3 1,124.6 1,325.2 1.346,1 5,955.1  1.2182.6 2,065.4 2,408.2 2,761.6 29605.2 11.123.0
December 10. 1982 16139



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Cast Table
(UPC 00
Table 122. CAERD-RONBOIA                         Table 123. CRER-RORAIMA                        Table 124, CASAN-SANTA CATALINA
Unit   1983   1984    1985    1986    1987   Total    1983  1984   1985   1986   198?  Total   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
I. CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                         Glob.       -    24.8   150,5    24.8   214.8   224.9         -       -       -       -      -       -   3803    785.3   524.9 1,796.3   413.3  3,900.2
DISTRIDUTION                       Glob.       -   355.5         -   419~2   283,5 1,058.1        -   16.0   17.1   18.2   19,3   70.6         8.3    22.3    28.1    50.4    57.9    167.0
CONNECTIONS                        Glob.    8.3      8.3      6.6    14.9    21.5    59.5         -      -       -       -       -      -     12.7    15,9    16.0    16.1    16.9          77.6
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                          8.3   388,5   157.1   458.9   329.8 1,342.5          -   16.0   17.1   18.2   19.3   70.6    401.3   823.5   569.1 1,862.9   488,1  4,144.8
2. 5 BIG CITIES
5 DIG CITIES                       Glob.       -   435.6   454.7   454.7   454,7 19799.6  27.7    3.2    3.6    3.9    4.2   42.6             38.2   315.0   450.9   445.2   353.2  1,602.4
3 MEDIUMN Si7E CITIES
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                 Glob.       -   255.4   310.6   261.0   149.7   976.7         -       -       -       -      -       -    206.8   164.5   143.0   115.6   590.7  19220.7
4. SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                  Glob.       -   264.5   165.3   165,3   165,3   760.5  11.8    4,4    2.2    2.4    2,5  213,3    487,7   206,7   206.7   289,3   289.3  1,479.7
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                             8.3 1,344.1 1,087.6 1,339.9 1,099.5 4,879,3  3915   23.6   22.9   24.5   26.0  136.5 1,133.9 1,509.7 19369.6 2,713.0 1,721.3  8,447.5
B. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob.       -        -        -   658.0   563.0 l922710        -   96.1   83.2  129.5  131.6  440.4        41.3   251.3   251.3   647.3   316.6  19507.8
2, OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                       Glob.       -        -        -   165.3   165.3   330.7       -       -       -       -      -       -         -        -        -        - 1,240.0  1t240.0
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                   -        -        -   823.4   728.3 1,551.7        -   96.1   83.2  129.5  131.6  440.4         41.3   251.3   251.3   647.3 1,556.6  2,747.8
C. EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                             Glob.   24.4   130.6   142.4         6.8        -   304.2   8.7    9.9    5.0    3.6   12.7   39.8    107.1   129.5   154.9   225.8   259.6    876.8
D. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                           Glob.    9.5   153.3   130.4   222.0   187.7   702.7   4.8   14.3   11.2   15.9   17,3   63.5    151.3   210.8   240.6   379.4   374.5  1,356.6
DESIGN                                Glob.   12.4       8.3    20.7         -       -    41.3       -       -      -       -       -       -     21.5    11.6       7.4      3.3      3.3      47.1
INSTITUTIONAL DEY)ELOPMENT            Glob.   49.6    49.6    49.6    49.6    49.6   248.0           -   12.8    1.3    1.4    2.5   18.0    206.7   206.7   206.7   206.7   286.7  1,033.3
---   --   ---   ---   ----   --   -------   -------   -------   ----   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   ----- ~ ~ ~ 0
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION            715 211,1   200.6   271,6   237.3   992.1   4.8   27.1   12.6   17.3   19.8   81.5    379.4   429.0   454,7   589,4   584.5  2,437.0                          on
Total IN9ESTMENT COSTS                              104.2 1,685.8 lF430.7 2,441.6 2~065.0 7,727.3  53.0  156,7  123.7  174.8  190.1  698.2  1,661.8 2,319.6 2P230.5 49175.4 49121.9 14,509,2                           a'
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 104.2 1,685.8 1,430.7 29441.6 2v065.0 7r727.3  53.0  156.7  123.7  174.8  190.1  699.2  1,661.8 2,319.6 2t230.5 4,175.4 4,121.9 14,509.2                        .
December 1of 1982 16:39



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(IUPC '000)
Table 125. SABESP-SAO PAULO                                    Table 126. DESO-SERGIPE
Unit   1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      Total        1983    1984    1985       1986     1987   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. CAPITAL CITY
PRODUCTION                         Glob.   644.8  1,008.5  1,339.2  39419.1  6,229.8   12,641.4    175.3   349.5   178,1   178.1                    -   881.1
DISTRIBUTION                       Glob,   363.7    925.9  1Y306.1  2,157.6  2,232.0    6y985.3              35.6    35.6    35.6   289.3   289.3   685.6
CONNECTIONS                        Glob.   148.8    462.9    595.2    950.7    992.0    3,149.6                 -        -        -        -        -         -
Sub-Total CAPITAL CITY                        t1157.3  2.397.3  3,240.5  6,527.4  9,453.8   227776.3    210.9   385.1   213.8   467.5   289.3 1.566.6
2. 5 DIG CITIES
5 BIG CITIES                       Glob,       4.1    248,0    578.7    661.3    909.3    2Y401.5    371,5   176.9   136.7   198.7   165.3 19049.2
3, MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
MEDIUM S12E CITIES                 Glob.   111.6  1,002.7  1,172.2  1,587.2  1,242,5    5f116,2    299.8   410.4    66.1   247.4   193.9 1,217.8
4, SMALL COMMUNITIES
SMALL COMMUNITIES                  Glob.   826.7    826.7    826.7    826.7    826,7    4.133.3                 -        -        -        -        -        -
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                           2,099.7  4,474.7  5S818,1  9,602,6 12.432.2   34,427.4    882.2   972.5   416.6   913.6   648.6 3,833.6
B. SEWERAGE
1. CAPITAL CITY
CAPITAL CITY                       Glob,   260,4  6,355.4  9,502.5  2,893.3  3,306.7   22,318.3             44.6   479.5   504.3   553.9   562.1 2,144.3
2, OTHER CITIES
OTHER CITIES                       Glob,   114.9  1.240.0  2F893.3 14,342.7 14,765.1   33,356.0                 -        -        -        -        -        -
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                 375,3  7.595.4 12,395.9 17,236.0 18,071,8   55v674,3            44.6   479.5   504,3   553.9   562.1 2.144.3
C  EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                              Glob.    82.7    744.0    826.7    909,3  1,157.3    3,720.0            48.0    65,1       57.7    65.5    62.5   298.8
D. ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                            Glob.   347.5  1.521.1  2.135,3  2,989.2  3,381.1   10374.2    105.0   158.3   106.1   164.0   136.4   669.8
DESIGN                                 Glob.   338.9    702,7    702.7    702.7    702.7           3,149.6        -         -        -        -        -        -
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT              Glob.   578.7  1,694.7  1.612.0  1,446.7  1,446.7    6,778.7            75.3    66.1    82,7   107.5    90.9   422.5              r 
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION           1,265,1  3,918.4  4,449,9  5.138.6  5,530.4   20-302-4    180.3   224.4   188,7   271,5   227.3 1.092.3                     ( 3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              3,822.8 16,732.6 23,490.6 32,886.5 37,191.7  114,124.1  1,I55,1 1741,5 1,167,3 1,804.4 1,500.6 7,369.0                      
========== ====             ======== ======== =========                -----= _=== ======= ===_===  ======= =======
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 3,822.8 16,732.6 23,490.6 32,886.5 37,191.7  1149124,1  1,15i.1 1,741.5 1,167,3 1,804.4 1,500.6 7,369.0
Deceaber 10! 1982  16'40



- 51 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
List of Conditions for Onlending Agreements
A project loan agreement (CTN or CTE) signed by BNH and each of
the states and SWCs would be used for each subproject to be financed. This
agreement will refer to general conditions and commitments contained in the
Loan Agreement. A list of general conditions follows:
Obligations of the Project States
1.        support to the project; and
2.        agreement on the EVG and commitment  to finance its investment
program.
Obligations of the Project Companies
1.        carry out the project;
2.        hire qualified consultants;
3.        arrange adequate insurance coverage;
4.        make adequate use of goods and services being financed;
5.        prepare and timely deliver to BNH the project documentation;
6.        maintain satisfactory project records;
7.        authorize visits of BNH and Bank personnel to works and offfices
of the SWCs;
8.        prepare progress and completion reports;
9.        comply with subproject selection criteria;
10.       maintain satisfactory accounting records;



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
11.       maintain external audit;
12.       revise each year the EVG for a five-year period;
13.       carry out the institutional development program as detailed in
the current EVG, including programs for reduction of unaccounted
for water and for studies of tariff structures;
14.       carry out the investment program set forth in the EVG;
15.       comply with National Tariff Law;
16.       set up an internal audit unit by December 31, 1984;
17.       comply with procurement guidelines; and
18.       execute agreed recovery plans aimed at strengthening the com-
pany's financial situation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
WATER SLWPY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROACT
New  Sector  Iavestments  1983-87  1/
(UPC '000)
B.As Costs +
Base Costs                             Price Cont. on  Foreitn Exchanse
--  Bse Costs    -     
Unit   1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       Total       (US1  '000)    7      hout
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATER SUFPLY
CAPITAL CITY                               12,845.7   18,414.0   21,26M,9   20,442.8   20,172.6   93,143.9    1,269,973.3  30.0   27,943.2
5 BIG CITIES                                3.920,9   5581.2    7,669,8    8I801.0    6,266.6   32,247.6           441,607.3  30.0   9,674.3
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES                          3,554.7    9,306.4    9,B76,2   10,676.9   11,549.5   44,963.B          6219338.8  30.0   13,489.1
SNAL COIVWNITIES                            6,124,4    6,083.5    6,506.1    6,604.8    7,303.3   32,622.2          442,098.3  30.0    9,786.7
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                        26.453.7   39,385,2   45,321.0   46,525.5   45,292.0  202,977.5    2,775,017.7  30.0   60,893.3
Physical Contingencies                      2.645.4    3,938.5    4,532.1    4,652.6    4,529.2   20,297.8                  -  30.0    6,069.3
Price Continoencies                         2,374.5    7,162,3   12,448.3   16,925.6   20,454.7   59,365.4                  -  30,0   17,809,6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINOENCIES             31.473,6   50,48660   62,301.5   68,103,7   70,275.9  282,640.7    2,775,017,7  30.0   84,792.2
Foreign Exchange                            9-442,1   15,145.0   18,690.4   20,431.1   21,082.8   84,792,2                  -   0.0         0.0
B, SEWERAGE
CAPITAL CITY                                5,046.6   18,608.3   21,804.2   21,169.6   18,032,3   84,661.1    1,166,382.2  30.0   25,398,3
OTHER CITIES                                  835.5    3,929.1    6,994.1   20,086.8   22,136.6   53,982.0          779,519.0  30.0   16,194.6
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                             5,882.1   22,537.4   28,798.3   41,256.4   40,168.9  138,643.1    1,945,901.2  30.0   41,592.9
Phosical Contingencies                        588.2    2,253.7    2,879,8    4,125.6    4,016.9   13,864.3                  -  30.0    4,159,3
Price Continsencies                           528.0    4,098.5    7,910.1   15,008.7   18,141.0   45,686.3                  -  30.0   13,705.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES              6,998,2   28,889.6   39,588.2  60,390.7   62,326.8  198,193.6    1,945,901,2  30.0   59,458.1
Foreian Exchanse                            2,099.5    8,666,9   11,876.5   18,117,2   18,698.0   59,458,1                  -   0.0         0.0
C. EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                                   3,291.5    3,368.4    2,965.7    2,604.8    3,440.1   15,670,5          210,711.0  30.0    4,701.1
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                            3,291.5    3,368.4    2,965,7    2,604.8    3,440.1   15,670.5          210,711.0  30.0    4,701.1
Phusical Contingencies                        329,1       336,8      296,6       260.5       344,0    f,567.0               -  30.0       470.1
Price Continaencies                           295.4       612.6      814,6       947.6    1,553.6    4,223.8                -  30.0    1,267.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES              3.916,0    4,317.8    4,076.8    3,812.9    5,337.7   21,461.3          210,711.0  30.0    6,438.4
Foreign Exchanse                            1,174,8    1,295.3    1,223,0    1.143.9    1,601.3    6,438.4                  -   0.0         0.0
DB ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION                                 3,675.2    7,333.4    8,660.0    9,463.9    9,248.3   38,380.7          529,008.6  30.0   11,514.2
DESIGN                                      1,130.1    1,578.4    1.359.8    1,195.9    1,107,4    6,371.5           85,475.5  30.0    1,911.5
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   3,678.9    4,480.6    4,924.5    4,124.2    5,552 9   22,761.1          309,694.9  40.0    9,104.4
Sub-Total ENGINEERING - ADMINISTRATION         8,484.2   13,392,3   14,944.2   14,784.1   15,908.5   67,513.4          924,179.0  33.4   22,530.1
Phusical Contingencies                        848.4   1339.2    1,494.4    1,478.4    1,590,9    6,751.3                   -  33.4    2,253.0
Price Continaencies                           761.5    2,435.4    4,104.7    5,378.3    7.184,6   19,864.6                  -  33.3    6,610.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             10.094.1   17,167,0   20s543.4   71,640.9   24,684.0   94,129.3          924,179.0  33.4   31,393.1
Foreign Exchanse                            3,465,9    5,724.4    6.840,0    7,096.0   B.266.8   31,393.1                   -   0.0         0.0
E. SANITATION RIG DE JANEIRO
N RO DE _               R                     2 0         43         13              - _                8     
SANITATION  R      IO DE  JA AEIRO            248.0       413.3      165,3           -           -      826,7        10,330.4  80.0       661.3
Sub-Total SANITATION RIO DE JANEIRO              248.0       413.3       165,3          -826.7                          10,330.4  80.0       661.3
Phusical Contingencies                         24,8        41,3        16.5          -           -       82.7               -  80.0        66.1
Price Contingencies                            22.3        75.2       45.4           -           -      142.8               -  80.0       114.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                295.1       529.8      227.3           -           -    1,052.2        10,330.4  80.0       841,7
Foreign Exchange                              236,0       423,9      1516            -           -      841.7               -   0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           44,359,4   79,096.7   92,194.6  105,170.8  104,809,5  425,631.1    5,866,139.3  30.6  130,378.8
Ph4sical Contingencies                         4,435.9    7,909,7    9.219.5   10,517.1   10,481.0   42,563.1                   -  30.6   13,037.9
Price Contingencies                            3,981,7   14,383.9   25,323.1   38,260.3   47,334.0  129,283.0                   -  30.6   39,506.9
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    52,777,1  101,390.3  126,737.2  153,948,2  162,624.4  597,477.1    5,866,139.3  30.6  182,923.5
Foreign Exchanae                              16,418,4   31,256.3   38,811.7   46,786.2   49,648,9  182,923.5                   -   0.0        0.0
1/   Represents   investment  in  subprojects  not yet  committed under  BNE  (CTNs).
December 10, 1982  16:40



- 54 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement guidelines
1.         In mid-1981, BNH issued procurement guidelines for use in Bank-
financed projects to complement Bank guidelines.   BNH guidelines   detail
supervision of procurement processes by BNH and the Bank and include the
stages of project preparation and review from the EVG to the disbursement
of Bank loan funds  (Attachment  1 to this Annex).   The guidelines were
amended at the end of 1981 to give BNH more responsibility for these mat-
ters, reducing Bank supervision to ex post review of most documents.  The
Bank performs a prior review of the onlending contracts among BNH, SWC and
State. These documents will include general lending conditions and commit-
ments detailed in Annex 7, summary description of works or goods, costs,
and execution schedule.  Together with the CTN, the Bank reviews the com-
pliance of the subproject with the selection criteria agreed upon (Annex
5).
Bidding Documents
2.          BNH has prepared standard general conditions for bidding docu-
ments to be used by SWCs in all tenders. Drafts of these documents are be-
ing reviewed by the Bank's Legal Department.   BNH would accept slight de-
viations requested by individual states. These amendments would be subject
to ex post review by the Bank. BNH has also issued guidelines for grouping
goods and works in bidding packages to make them more attractive for inter-
national competitive bidding.



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BNE-BANK REVIEW OF DESIGNS AND PROCUREMENT DOCUMENTS
-I. REVIEW!   2. REVIEW   3. REVIE!
DOCUMENT                     OBJECT/CONTENT                  PREPARED BY                        FREQUENCY                 _PPROVAL        APPROVAL    APPROVAL    DOCUMENT COPIES FOR                      BANK APPROVAL
EVE          Level of investm-nt.                    SWC                     O.e for e-ch SWC tO April each year    COSAN                                         SWC/COSAN/BANK
iR emand
Financal viability
Lit set to Bk of RTP approved
| RTP        PFeeshibility report for one             Con.oltants hired by  Norially .o.  for nacbh  ty  or                         E0| COEAN                                              EX-POST SAbPLING DURING SUPERVIS.
cIty or  0y5I00                        swc                     myote                                     L. I                                                                          (One in 10)
Le.et nOot aolon                                                                                                               (Large citie})
Eco-oic analysis
PB          Nydraulic design                        C-onoltonte             One or mo re for each RTP                                                                                     EX-POST Samplig
(one in 20)
(Lerge citiea)
PT    Final dealgr                            Convolto-t.             One for nec  PB                           SSUACSNREX-POST Sampling
(on iv 20)
(Large ctiea)
FCIl            Contract between BNH, SWC and          SWC                      One or .. re for each RTP.                               A N     F3                SWC/SOSAN/COSAN/BANK
State Iv finin-e same works                                    Several RTP nay he financed               L    l      L.. Espelho`(so tary)-ent
First CTN opdatna economic                                     by one CTN                                                                          tO Sank                     Pre-ouao Review
analysis                                                                                                                                           Eoeic enalysis  et
All CTN, opdate bidding                                                                                                                             co S        aan
T             schedule and aobproj-ct cootl
Anoo n-emeot           Cenerol Procurement Notice             COSAN                    Once a year                               COSAN       BANK                         COSAN/BANK                  Published by Bank
in Development
Forum
eleeral                General conditf.on  for all            SWC/COSAN                Once for all loana                        COSAN       BANM                         SWC/SOSAN/COSAN             Under peeperatien.  To be ap-
Bidding                bids (Edital)(Sopply/                                                                                                                                                         prvd by B
isomueots              inatsllaticn/lntnrcational/                                                                                                                                                   poe   y8n
Incal bids)
Technic-l              Typical ge ncal specifications         Con.oltanto/             To be r-viv.ed fOn  each hid               OT         SOSAN          COSAN         SWC/SOSANICOSAN             i'X-POST Sampling
specificationo        ftO  supply and iostallationa Of        SWC                                                                                                                                         (One Sn S0)
fnr pipes              pipes
Adlhoc techoic_l       Detail technical ap-cifica-            Co...ltannt/SWc          Idea                                       OT         SOSAN          COSAN         SWC/SOSAN/CO.SAN            IX-POST review
apocifnations         tion-   for each bid                                                                                                                                                             (one in 10)
Bil adver-             Bid advertisement                      SWC                      Once for each bid                          SOSAN                                   SWC                         EX-POST Sapltlng Reien
tinement               (incloding letters tO e-b.sJie.)                                                                                                                                                   (one in 10)
A.ard                  Bid .calpyin and award                 SWC                      Once fvr each bid                          SOSAN      COSAN                        SOSAN/COSAN                 EX-POST Sampilog Review
C.ctract               Soppliero or - cii ucrho               SWC                     ice or more for each bid                    SOSAN      COSAN                        SWC/BANK
t              ~~~~contracts                                                                                                                                       (erpeglio do contratol
APL/COC                Payme-t aothori.atioc                  SWC                      Once pet month/contract                    SOSA0      BN0  e-tercal cr-dit
StateIect of           Requ-st for Bank dinborseme.t          BNH e-ter-al             Once or twice per nonth for all            interE-l -nditor-                       BNN/BANK                    EX-POST  .sapling r-eV
e-pendit-res           (Partial reimhnrb e-ent if pact        credit                   eltigble payments                             (..mpliog)                           (Central   nh-k)                (One tn 50)
Of CTI  rot eligible)
1/  swc:  State wSter Companies; oT:  Orgaoo Tecnico (Con.oltact -opeccising wotk}); COSAN: BNTi Water and S-nitotic  Division; SOSAN:  COSAN. regional offices.



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursement Procedures
Introduction
1.          As in previous loans to BNH, disbursement will be made against
statements of expenditures.  This is a practical procedure for a loan made
to a financial intermediary, with a large number of subprojects and with
contracts generally awarded to local contractors.  The disbursement proce-
dure is consistent with BNH's procedures, allows proper control over Bank
disbursements and is working satisfactorily in ongoing projects. BNH's fi-
nancing mechanism and Bank reimbursement procedures are described below.
BNH/SWC Financing Contract
2.         After BNH has approved designs for any subproject, the SWC sub-
mits a request for PLANASA financing to BNH's financial agent in the
state.   The financial agent then submits the request to BNH and to the
FAE. The parties then sign formal loan agreements establishing conditions,
the total amount of the loan, amount of the advance payment and repayment
terms.  For control purposes, BNH establishes a financial contract number
to each contract. All subsequent payment requests must bear that number.
Borrower's (BNH) Expenditure Control Procedure
3.         BNH examines all bidding documents and final contracts to verify
that they pertain to the subproject. At the state level, SOSAN and the OTs
review all invoices to establish their validity as to percentage of comple-
tion and delivery of materials, and also monitor the construction of all
subprojects.   The financial agent compares the authenticity of documenta-
tion and verifies paid invoices with advance payment requests.
BNH Disbursements
4.        BNH disburses in two stages:  (a) an initial advance of up to 20%
of the total expenditure stipulated in the financing contract, and (b) sub-
sequent payments until the project is completed.   Subsequent payments may
be made against paid or unpaid invoices.



- 57 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
5.        The initial advance is paid to the financial agent who credits it
to the SWC's account after deducting the administrative and technical ser-
vice fees. The advance is recovered by deducting from each subsequent pay-
ment the percentage of the total contract that the advance represented. If
there are overruns, the advance is automatically liquidated.  Overruns are
generally financed by a supplementary financial contract.
6.          The SWC has two payment options.  Under the first alternative,
the SWC submits paid invoices to the OT who approves (or rejects) each in-
voice, and returns all documents to the SWC.  The SWC then submits a list
of the approved invoices to the financial agent who verifies and submits
the list and a request for reimbursement to BNH and FAE. Under the second
alternative, the procedure is identical except that a list of unpaid in-
voices is submitted and the request is for advance payment, supported by
proof that the previous month's advance was used to pay the invoices.
7.        BNH issues a payment order for 50% of the value of the request to
which the list of paid invoices is attached.   The request is approved by
COSAN, and then routed to BNH's Finance Department for payment through the
financial agent.   Administrative and technical service fee are deducted.
BNH exercises satisfactory control over subproject implementation and dis-
bursements procedures.   The accounting procedures are straightforward and
records are available for supervision missions to verify expenditures on
selected subprojects.   Furthermore, independent auditors audit the state-
ments of expenditure and the associated internal controls.
Transactions between BNH, the final user and the Bank
8.        Contract amounts, disbursements and payment of interest and prin-
cipal are expressed in UPC.   The UPC is a monetary unit adjusted every
three months in accordance with the percentage increase granted to Federal
Government Bonds (ORTN).  BNH submits to the Bank requests for reimburse-
ments for expenditures on approved subprojects (CTNs or CTEs) supported by
the list of paid or unpaid invoices.  In order to reduce the interval dur-
ing which BNH has to finance the Bank's share of project cost with its own
resources, and the underdisbursement of the Bank loan under high local in-
flation rates, BNH and the Bank agreed to make advance payments in the
amount of US$20 million from the Loan account into a Special Account in the
Banco Central do Brasil.  The Special Account would be available for fi-
nancing only the Bank's share of project cost.  BNH would be entitled to
make withdrawals from the Special Account at the exchange rate applicable
on the day the BNH made its disbursement.



- 58 -
ANNEX 10
Attachment I
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
pLANASA FINANCIAL AND SERVICE FLOWS
I-  -   -.                                       H   -  - - -                                 I | -
;_. W G.1 Id                                                 )        I -E
Craaa _   PCtoc                                                          o fol Srnalf Con nnuni|_   J   ___       _   4fti
Fgd.rl          F.,la                                                                                          SmnYiq _yav.n
rs  llng  L  -< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.a.a.o.__ 
~5o@1 Cao~ja nd S.oaQa    -                                                                                               9 CoysasaSin



- 59 -
ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ MILLION
IBRD Fiscal Year    Quarter       Quarterly    Cumulative    % of Total
1984              I             2.9            2.9           0.1
II            1.5            4.4           0.1
III           4.3            8.7           2.9
IV            5.0           13.7           4.5
1985              I            12.9           26.6           8.8
II          14.7            41.3          13.7
III          11.0           52.3          17.3
IV           13.0           65.3          21.6
1986              I            12.0           77.3          25.6
II           10.0           87.3          28.9
III          18.0          105.3          34.8
IV           23.0          128.3          42.4
1987              I            21.0          149.3          49.4
II           24.0          173.3          57.3
III          12.0          185.3          61.3
IV           24.0          209.3          69.2
1988              I            24.0          233.3          77.2
II           18.0          251.3          83.1
III          18.0          269.3          89.1
IV           12.0          281.3          93.0
1989              I             9.0          290.3          96.0
II            6.0          296.3          98.0
III           6.0          302.3         100.0



MVL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SFXDR IPROJECT
Balance Sheet as of Decanber 31,
(UPC ooo)
Hiatorical                F9timante                              ProjecteD
1979       1D            198         198          183         19B4         19           1986         1987
AEssets
Cash and Securities       113,568       60,837       83,736      95,768      118,373      137,387      163,599      194,162      233,396
Loans kReceivable         922,597    1,141,4C0     1,385,916   1,636,786    1, F1,841    2,145,026    2,423,385    2,721,031   3,036,066
Fixed Assets                3,783        3,843        5,026       5,305        6,108        6,992        8,076        9,107       10,230
Otner Assets               53,014       40,565       31,837      30,447       29,341       41,326       96,944      111,340      130,148
Total. Assets         1,092,962    1,246,645    1,506,515   1,768,306    2,036,027    2,330,731    2,6c9,004    3,035,640    3,409,840    1
a,
MIabilities and Capital
Ernployees' Tndwnity
Ymn (E2B)               826,105      978,443     1,137,009   1,321,187    1,522,948    1,748,281   1,997,467    2,270,659    2,564,541
Other Liabilities         149,730      147,58        237,783    304,976      349,382      395,059      478,100)     520,916      571,148
Total Liabilities      875,835    1,126,023     1,374,789   1,626,163    1,872,330    2,143,340    2,475,567    2,791,575    3,135,689
Capital                   117,127      120,622       131,726     142,143     163,697      187,391      216,437      244,065      274,151
Total Liabilitiea arn
Capital          1,092,962    1 ,246,645   1,506,515   1,768,306    2,036,027    2,330,731    2,692,004    3,035,640    3,409,840
_                                                        =         _
Xb m
0 
o )



- 61 -
ANNEY 12
P~ 2 c
WATE1R SUPPLY AND SIA0E SEMRF PRJECT
HIE
Cash FIDw Statement for Yeers Iied Deober 31,
(UPC oDD)
Historical                  Eatimted                                 Projeoted
1979         19fl          19)1         1w            193          19g4         1985          1996          1957
Operting Receipt-
Tin   ne                   48,815       55,354         60,68B       64,182       67,39:        8o,563        91,137      102,340       114,118
Service ircme               2,959        3,383          5,O63       7,252        10,408        10,146        10,736       11,393        12,091
Other                       5,8)2        5,910          7,370        6,051        2,951         7,659        8,924        10,374        12,CQ7
Total Revere            57,576        64,647        73,921       77,4e5       8D,749        95,368       110,797      124,107       133,236
Operating Eese
Aministrative EDTeses       8,702        11,746        15,522       21,370       21,099        22,542       24,085        25,749        27,500
Trncial Erpses              6,026        5,833          5,505       11,697       15,331        16,9D4        19,393       21,745        23,969
Other                        5s0         7,485         20,694       12,756       11,245        12,870        14,820       16,755        18,627
Total Erpes             15,308        25,064        41,721       45,823       47,675        52,316        58,298       64,249        70,096
uternal Cash Generation       42,268       39,583         32,200      31,662        33,074        46,052       52,499        59,958       68,140
Souroes
Internal Cash Gmeration   42,268        39,583         32,20        31,662       33,074        46,052       52,499        59,585        68,140
Erployee' Indemnity
Deposits (Net)          109,707       120,203       135,913      152,936       169,647      180,639       193,695      205,760       216,433
Housirg Systan
Deposi+t (Net)           14,534       (22,9:8)       56,039       11,731       31,693        18,806        19,459       22,137        26,902
TIan P rincipe  Repaen t   92,442        89,371       100,459       93,959       100,036      109,946       122,893      134,007       149,245
kDens                      11,450         2,694         5,205       16,812       17,759        19,599        21,004       22,331        22,720
Other                      2r,q69       71,918         60,948       57,197       29,723        26,68B        38,976       82,387        66,558
Total Soarces          297,370       300,781       390,764      364,197      3B1,932       401,730       448,526      526,530       549,995
Applications
Debt Service                  312          510            964        2,064        3,770         6,860        8,794        10,671        12,204
Treasury BSds              51,206        3,222         63,104       33,250       47,000        35,908        54,608      102,473        93,908
Other                      24,056          926            938        4,965        4,70M         5,512         6,324        7,336         8,583
New Lnems                 218,166       29B,302       324,529      321,019      327,213       352,602       377,980      405,100       434,30D
Total Applications     293,749       302,960       389,535      361,290      382,6B3       40flO,2       447,626      525,5se       548,995
Net Chage in Cash              3,621        (2,199)        1,229        2,899          (751)         950           900          950         1,000



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
SWCs' Summary Financial Data
Assumptions
1.         The EVGs form the basis for the financial projections and moni-
toring indicators. The EVGs provide a five year planning horizon and in-
clude, inter alia, past and projected service levels, investment programs
to meet these service levels, monitoring indicators and detailed financial
projections (balance sheet and income and cash flow statements). The EVGs
reviewed cover the years 1983-87 and include historical and current data
for 1981 and 1982.  The mission reviewed the EVGs of 23 SWCs.  Three SWCs
had not presented their EVGs at the time of appraisal.   Several modifica-
tions were made in the assumptions underlying the EVGs.
2.         The UPC is used as the monetary unit in the EVGs  because of the
high inflation rate experienced in Cruzeiros.   In 1979 and 1980, adjust-
ments to the UPC lagged considerably below the inflation rate. Since 1981,
the Government has maintained a policy of fully adjusting the UPC with in-
flation. This policy is expected to be continued.
3.        Volumes billed are based on projected service levels contained in
the EVGs. Average tariffs are based on the requirements of the National
Tariff Law (sum of operating costs, depreciation and debt service) and in-
clude tariff structure changes and acceleration of billing cycles for
several of the companies.
4.           Unaccounted-for water is projected to decrease 10% p.a. to a
minimum level of 20% in those SWCs with unaccounted-for water higher than
20% in 1982.   In those SWCs with reported unaccounted-for water of less
than 20%, no decreases are assumed.
5.        Inflation rates are estimated at 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in
1985 and 6% p.a. thereafter.
6.          Operating costs are projected by applying the general inflation
factors and certain assumptions, as follows:
personnel - gradual reductions in the number of employees per one
thousand water and sewer connections;
chemicals and power - increases in direct proportion to the in-
creases in water production; and
materials and other - increases in direct proportion to the in-
creases in the number of water connections.



- 63 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
7.             Current assets  and liabilities  are based on the following
assumptions:
accounts receivable - gradual reduction to two months of sales in
receivables for those companies with greater than two months sales as of
December 31, 1981.  In those SWCs with less than two months sales, no re-
ductions are assumed;
inventories - 1-1/2 months of operating costs less personnel and
power expenses;
other current assets, accounts payable and other current liabili-
ties - estimated December 31, 1982 value per the EVG adjusted annually for
inflation.



WATFR SUPPLY AND SEWERAG0  SIO =R PROJ=LI
SANACRE                                                                                                              CASAL
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                            SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987                                                      1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
TOTAL REVENUE                  117.00   147.91   203.32   274.42   391,90   443.28   523.25                       TOTAL REVENUE                  780.00  1046.15  1190.10  1412,77  1581.23  1985,79  2393.92
TOTAL COST                     157.00   179.59   217.54   249.91   287.88   321.28   379.26                       TOTAL COST                     764.00   667.16   845.05   973.88  1058.41  1228.00  1358.90
INC. BEFORE DEP.              -40.00   -31.68   -14.23    24.51   104.02   122,00   143.99                        INC. BEFORE DEP.                16.00   379.00   345.06   438.89   522.81   757.79  1035.02
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.           11.00     7.00     9.00    24.00    39.00    56.00    76.00                       DEPRECIATION I AMORT.           65.00   102.00   128.00   156.00   179.00   251.00   330.00
OFERATING INCOME              -51.00   -38,68   -23.23       0.51    65.02    66.00    67,99                      OFERATING INCOME               -49.00   277.00   217.06   282.89   343.81   506.79   705.02
TOTAL ASSETS                   657.00   741.31  1021.09  1669,61  2495.62  3378.62  4588.61                       TOTAL ASSETS                  6570.00  7133.99 10082,05 13196.93 16521.75 19795.54 22348.55
TOTAL LIABILITIES               85.00   158,00   239.00   436.00   594.00   713.00   878.00                       TOTAL LWIBILITIES             3Q01.00  3377.00  5267.00  7155.00  9190.00 12030.00 13981.00
EUITY                         572.00   583.31   782.09  1233.61  1901.62  2665.62  3710.61                       EQUITY                        3479.00  3756.99  4805.05  6041.73  7330.75  7765.54  8367.55
DiEBT SERVICE                    2.00     2.00      4.00    28.00    65.00    66.00    68.00                      DEBT SERVICE                   214.00   191.00   217.00   283.00   344.00   507,00   705.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                 0.00    80.00   238.00   615.00   755.00   784.00  1102.00                       TOTAL INVESTMENT              1941.00   429.00  2812.00  3085.00  3286.00  3245.00  2463.00
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00    75.00    83.00   214,00   201.00   164,00   213.00                       TOTAL LOANS                     83.00   372.00  2003.00  2043.00  2225.00  3125.00  2356.00
TOTAL GRANIS                     0.00     0.00   166.00   397.00   554.00   640.00   912.00                       TOTAL GRANTS                  1911.00    69,00   917.00  1045,00  1072.00   137.00   146.00
2 INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY       0.00     0.38      0.36     0.28     0.14    -0.06    -0.04                      X INC. IN TARIFF To COMPLY       1.00      0.03    -0.02      0.11     0.04      0.15      0.10
'. INC. ACT.!PROP. TAR.          3.00     0.08     0.20      0.17     0.14    -0.06    -0.04                      ' INC. iCl.iPROP. TAR.           0.00      0.13    -0.02      0.11     0.04      0.15      0.10
CAESA                                                                                                             ENBASA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                             SUMARY FINANCIAL DATA
1981     1982     19B3      1984     1985      1986     19B7                                                        1981     1982     1983      1984     1985     1986     1987
TOTAL REVENUE                   66.00    94.83   121.10   152.87   204.36   230.49   260.20                          TOTAL REVENUE                4770.00  5678.10  6369.29  7307.14  8342.15  9453.13 11242.60
TOTAL COST                      88.00   123.85   138.38   152.30   174.33   194.54   215.20                          TOTAL COST                    3596.00  3898.60  4296.02  4845.81  5511.02  6136.40  6994.44
INC. BEFORE BEP.               -22.00   -29.01   -17.27      0.17    30.03    35.95    45.00                         INC. BEFORE DEP.             1174.00  1779.50  2073.27  2461.32  2831.14  3316.73  4241.15
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.           10.00    14.00    20.00    27.00    30.00    36.00    45.00                          DEPRECIATION & AMORT.         605.00   768.10   832.00   924.00  1014.00  1108.00  1302.00
OPERATING INCOME               -32.00   -43.01   -37.27   -26.83      0.03    -0.05      0.00                        OPERATING INCOME              569.00  1011.40  1241.27  1537.32  1817.14  2208.73  2946.15
TOTAL ASSETS                   332.00   464.99   537.52   773.91  1107.92  5494.87  1914.87                          TOTAL ASSEIS                35521.00 41329.84 47803.11 55442.77 65055.41 74577.18 8405.50
TOTAL LIABILITIES               24.00    49,00    53.00    57.00    61.00    65.00    68.00                          TOTAL LIABILITIES           25011.00 24658.00 29319.00 34467.00 41149.00 48475.00 55929.00                  > .
EiiUITT                        308.00   415.99   484.52   716.95  1046.92  1429.87  1846.87                          EOUITY                      10510.00 6I671.84 18484.10 20975.77 2390c6.41 26102.18 28676.50
DEBT SERVICE                     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    .0.00      0.00     0.00                        DEBT SERVICE                 1688.00  1355.30  1241.00  1538.00  1917.00  2210.00  2945.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                69.00   124.00    63.00   125.00   134.00   148.00   165.00                          TOTAL INVESTMENT             7467.00  5674.00  6800.00  7949.00  9.1.000  9846.800 10483.00F
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00     0.00      0.00     0,00     0.00      0.00     0.00                        TOTAL LOANS                  4825.00  2595.00  5365.00  6069.00  7791.00  8686.00  9223.00
TOTAL GRANTS                   101.00    93.00    69.00   193.00   230.00   263.00   274.00                          TOTAL GRANTS                 4460.00  5858.00  1080.00  1525.00  1795.00   805.00   760.00
% INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY       0.00     0,70      0.59     0.38     0.14    -0.01      0.00                        1 INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      0.00     0.06     0.04      0.03     0.03     0.03     0.06
I INC. ACT.iPROP. TAR.           0.00     0.14      0.19     0.16     0.14    -0.01      0.00                        I INC. ACT.JPROP. TAR.          0.00     0.05      0.04     0.03     0.03     0.03      0.06



WATER SUPPLY AND SE4ERAGE SEXMTOF PR0O T
Samary PIE niaJL %t
CAGECE                                                                                                                    ChESE
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                                   SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
1981     1982      1983     1984      1995      1986     1987                                                            1981      1982      1983      1994     1985      1986      1987
TOTAL REVENUE               1047.00  1411-31 2163.36  2954-94  4049.99  4843.24  5626.78                                 TOTAL REVENUE                  2028.00  2375.00  2859,00  3271.00  3924.00  4639.00   l146.00
TOTAL COST                     927.00  1070.37  1443.99  1928.57  2614.26  2992.93  3411.29                              TOTAL  COST                    1772.00  1642,00  1954.00  2192.00  2514.00  2747.00  2981.00
INC, BEFORE DEP,               116.00   340.94   719.36  1026.27  1434.73  1850.30  2215.50                              INC. BEFORE DEP.                256.00   733,00   905.00  1079.00  1410.00  1892.00  2165.00
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.          330.00   303.00   418,00   482.00   534.00   628.00   713,00                              CiEPRECIATION I AMORT.          251,00   266.00   333.00   395,00   534.00   692.00   753.00
OPERATING INCOME              -214.00    37.94   301.36   544.27   900.73  1222.30  1502,50                              OPERATING INCOME                  5.00   467,00   572.00   694.00   876.00  1200.00  1412.00
TOTAL ASSETS                 15447.00 16484.64 20357.00 25767.27 32548.01 37552.31 42236.81                              TOTAL ASSETS                  12579,00 14566.00 22493.00 29040.00 32157.00 36161.00 37301.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES             9710.00 10880.00 13693.00 17736.00 22771.00 25616,00 27750.00                              TOTAL LIABILITIES              5826.00  6387,00 10940.00 14629.00 16681.00 19021.00 19380.00
ECUITY                        5737.00  5604.64  6674.00  8031.27  9777.01 11936.31 14486.81                              FOUITY                         6753.00  8179.00 11553.00 14411.00 15476.00 17140.00 17921.00
DEBT SERVICE                   221.00   310.00   301.00   544,00   901.00  1223.00  1503.00                              DEBT SERVICE                    456.00   536,00   572.00   685.00   877.00  1199.00  1414.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT              2762.00  1778.00  3445.00  5026,00  6284.00  4340.00  3869,00                              TOTAL INVESTMENT                1240,00  2301.00  7918.00  6526.00  3097.00  3922.00  1042.00
TOTAL LOANS                   1551.00  1522.00  2791.00  4327.00  5516.00  3532.00  3001.00                               TOTAL LOANS                     539,00  1157.00  4770.00  3988.00  2428.00  2862.00   980.00
TOTAL GRANTS                   964.00   257.00   809.00   871,00   939.00  1015.00  1099.00                               TOTAL GRANTS                    699,00  1242.00  3067.00  2484.00   576.00  1002.00         0.00
% INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY       0.00      0.14      0.15     0.08      0.06     0.09      0.05                           % INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY        0.00      0.13     0.05      0.14      0.11      0.18      0.11
7 INC. ACT,/PROP, TAR.           0.00      0.03      0.15     0.08      0.06     0.09      0.05                           S INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.            0.00      0.13     0.05      0.14      0.11      0.18     0.11
SANEAGO
-------                                                                                                                     CAENA
SUMHARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                                             -----
SUMMRY FIKACIAL DATA
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
-------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------                            1991     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1917
TOTAL REVENUE                 1951.00  2371.93  2681.15  3251.37  3849.06  4791.33  5660.73
TOTAL COST                    1737.00  1797.35  2045.36  2396.52  2737.98  3126.48  3508.35                                TOTAL REYENUE                   719.00    01.29  1097.00  1476.00  1727.40  2326.62  2t4.29
INC. BEFORE DEP.               214.00   574.58   635.79   854.85  1111.08  1664.86  2152.38                                 TOTAL COST                     859.00   908.41   973.30  1042.00  1197.40  1442.63 2623.09
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.          120.00   140.00   174.00   235.00   335.00   446.00   545.00                                ITC. AELORE DEP.               -141.00    -7.12   123.70   433.20   531.00  177.99  1023.19
OPERATING INCOME                94,00   434.58   461.79   619.85   776.08  1218.86  1607.38                                 DEIRECIATION 6 MORT.           105..00    1.12   13b.00   158.00   18N.00  977.99  2503.00
TOTAL ASSETS                 10051,00 13191.58 18373.10 25984.96 32597.04 38629.90 43892.28                                 OPERATINO INCO TE             -241.00  -120.12   -12.30   275.20   345.00   422.00   520.19
TOTAL LIABILITIES             6700.00  7930.00  9959.00 15074.00 20834.00 25832,00 29850.00                                 TOTAL ASSETS                 1093 6.00 14240.12 17051.3  20444.87 23473.70 27293.69 303s.19            rt
EQUITY                        3351.00  5261.58  0414.10 10910.96 11763.04 12797.90 14042.28                                 TOTAL  ASSETS2593.00  35349 00  4470.00  5420.00 2t92.30  S2827.00  9754.N 00
OIEBT SERVICE                  610.00   414.00   462.00   620.00   776.00  1220.00  1607.00                                 TOTAL LIABILITIES53.00  35400  4470.00  50.00 172.70  929l.00  90t4.00  
TOTAL INVJESTMENT             1015.00  2626.00  5033.00  7456.00  6448.00  5871.00  5090.00                                 EDVITY                        9343.00 11406.94 12581.91 15024.87 17291.70 19911.69 20626.899              I
TOTAL LOANS                   B14.00  149900  226400  545600  619900   59700   590,00                                        BT SERVICE                    151.00   154.00   239.00   286.00   345.00   423.00   520.00
TOTAL LOANTS                   514.00  1499.00  2264.00  5456.00  6199.00  5691.00  4953.00                                 TOTAL INVESTMENT              7143.00  4029.00  2037.00  3305.00  3412.00  3113.00  3063.00
TOTAL  GRANTS                 139T.00  1550.00  2768.00  2 ,00   249.00   174,00   136,00                                   TOTAL LOANS                    191.00   754.00  1042.00  1096.00  1447.00  1920.00  1759.00
, INC. IN TACRIFF TO CARPLY      0.00      0.09      0.01     0.04      0.04     0.09      0.05                             TOTAL SRANTS                   7209.00  3244.00  1275.00  2351.00  2213.00  1353.00  1374.00
XINC, ACT,,PROP. TAR.          0,00      0.14     0.01      0.04     0.04      0.09      0.05                             Z INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY       0.00      0.49     0.43     0.09      0.01     0.06      0.04
7 INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.           0.00     0.05     0.16      0.06     0.01      0.06     0.04



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY ANID SBlACGE SLOR TPPOJq
SiYx   F 1a~          T)E+o
5ANEMAT
SANESUL
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
198i      1982      1983       1984      1965      1986      1987                                                            1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
TOTAL REVENUE                     472.00   637.76   982,80  1425.5G0  1845.0                                                  TOTAL REVENUE                    580.00   722.52  1072.59  1426.79  1707609  2418.64  2635.77
TOTAL COST                       829,00   360.66   857.10  1103.00  1371.90                                                   TOTAL COST                       721.00   818.36   932.79  1323.50 19  1.49  1450.60  1584.86
INC, BEFORE DEP.                -357.00  -222.90   125.70   322.0   473.60                                                    INC. BEFORE DEP.                -141 .00   -94.82   139.80        4G320    616.20   968.04  1850.90
DEPRECIATION t AhORT.             109.00   113.00   154.70   211.30   248.70                                                  DEPRECIATION & AMORT.             69.00    89.00   136.00   213.00   285.00   337.00   396.00
OPERATINC INCOME                -466.00  -335.90   -29.00    111.20   224.90                                                  OPERATING INCOME                -210.00  -183.82       3.80   190.20   331.20   631.04   654.90
TOTAL ASSETS                    487800  6526,10  8105.77  9889.58 12199.93                                                   TOTAL ASSETS                    4572.O0  7322.17  9746.84 11647,09 13403.03 16814.07 20412.97
TOTAL LIABILITIES               2881.00  4001.00  5406.00  6915.00  8677.00                                                   TOTAL LIABILITIES               2339. 0   4874.600b478,00  7735.00  0716.00 11204.00 13925.00
EQUITY                           1997.00  2525.1T  2699.77  2974.58  3522.93                                                  EQUITY                          2334.oc  2448.17  3268.84  3912.39  4007.03  5610.07  6487.97
DEBT SERViCE                         GC,    30.GG00   163.80   223170   224,90                                                DEBT SERVICE                        5.G0    21.00    98.10   264.00   321.20   631.00   653.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                1773.00  1860,00  1818.00  1985.00  2274.00                                                   TOTAL INVESTMENT                2067.60  2588.00  2524.00  19021,00  1711. 00  3-390.003540
TOThL LOANS                     1216.00  1207,00  148'7O    1632.00  1939 00                                                 TOTAL LOANS                      97B.00  2316.00  1660,00  1412.00 o    246.00  2810.00  3062.00
TOTAL GRANTS                     662.00   872,00   249,00   244.00   364.00                                                   TOTAL GRANTS                     075.00   289.I 0   827.06   524.00        594.00   472. j0 393.00
'lINC. IN TARIFF TO CCOMPLO      0.00       1.69      0.54      0,33       .07                                              X iNC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY         3.00      G.23           1.23  0.28     0.12    -0.01    -0.01
INC. ACT./EROF, TAR.             0.00       0.23      0.28      0,23      0.07                                              .RC   ACT.iR0F, TAO,               '         COO       G.l-      0.21      o.I      -0.01     -0.01
a,
CA6EPA
COSANPA
-------                                                                                                                             SLMIARY FINACIAL DATA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                                                    _-_-___-__
1981     1982       1983    I194       1985
1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1987                                                                        -------------------------------------
TOTAL REVENUE                   1146.00  1325.00  1568.20  1990.00  2268.60
TOTAL REVENUE                   1205.00  1457.91  1688.49  2019.07  2552.83  2956.34  3448.27                                              TOTAL COST                      1092.00  1144.00  1179.60  1421.80  1562.60
TOTAL COST                      1039.00  0180.22  1341.83  1517.12  1742,71  1969,82  2260.95                                               INC. BEFORE DEP.                  54.00   181.00   388.60   568.20   706.00
INC. BEFORE DEP.                 166.00   277.69   346.66   501.93   810.12   986.52  1187.32                                              DEPRECIATION & ANDRT.            266.00   200.00   234.60   285.00   340.00
IEFRECIATION I AlORT,             171.00   167,00   220.00   302.00   407.G0    486.00   526.00                                            OPERATING INCOME                -212.00   -19.00   154.D0   283.20   366.00
OEERATING INCOME                  -S.00   110.69   126.66   199.95   403.12   308.32   661.32                                              TOTAL ASSETS                    7237.00  9051.00 11759.00 13835.00 16247.00
TOTAL ASSETS                    4789.00  6285.69  8519.36 11636.31 15297.43 16936.96 18049.28                                              TOTAL LIABILITIES               5742.00  7059.00  8672.00  9945.00 81163.00
TOrAL LIABILITIES               1625.00  2829.00  4581.00  7316.00  9918.00 10780.00 10969.00                                              EQUIT!                          1495.00  1992.'J  3087.00  3890.00  5084.00
00190                          3164.08  3456.69  3938,36  4320.31  3379.43  6156.96  7008.28                                              DEBT SERVICE                     232.00   266.00   258.40   333.20   366.00
DEBT SERVICE                      93.00   100.00   127.00   200.00   403.00   300.00   662.00                                              TLTA' -!"E2Str.c                 200.UU  ZZN L.U  I/I1.00  2125.00  2436.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                   0.00  1444.00  2112.00  3069.00  3602.G00  176,00  1035300                                              TOTAL LOANS                      250.00  1654.00  1790.00  1570.00  1645.00
TOTAL LOANS                        0.00  1294,00  1054.00  2888.00  2902.00  1232.00   676.00                                              TLTAt 348mI                      I19t.00   589.00  103b.00   659.00  102U.OO
TOTAL GRANTS                        0.00   151.00   326.00   171.00   697.00   341.00   361.00                                             I INC. IN TARIFF TO CONPLY         0.00      0.21      O.e      0.24      0.08
I INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY         0.00       0.14      0.00      0.12      0.16       0.02    -0.10                                       T I'.. ACT/PROP,  TAR.             0.00      0.13      0.10      0.21      0.08
iNC. ACT.PROP. TAR,              0.0       0.270      0.00      0.11      0.16      0.02    -0.10



BRAZIL
WATPE  SUPPLY AND SEWFRAGE SEXSOR PROJEXT
~~ary POnancia31 T)a
SANEPAR                                                                                                          COMPESA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                           SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
1981    182      1983     1984     1985      1986     1987                                                      19S1     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987
TOTAL REVENUE                4954.00  5841.73  7178.68  8212.55  9592.50 10648.83 11561.49                       TOTAL REVENUE                3530,00  4126.37  4994.09  5692.46  6277.06  7264.55  8123.24
TOTAL COST                   3456.00  3821.68  4486.16  5104.42  5889.77  6556.16  7254.64                       TOTAL COST                   2698.00  2762.85  3137.39  3551.04  3978.72  4477.53  4982.83
INC. BEFORE DEP.             1498.00  2020.05  2692.51  3108.12  3702,73  4092.67  4306.85                      INC. BEFORE DEP.               832.00  1363.53  1856.70  2141.42  2298,34  2787.02  3140.41
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.         790.00   900.00  1094.00  1285.00  1428.00  1550.00  1675.00                       DEPRECIATION g AMORT,         577,00   534.00   592.00   659.00   729.00   798.00   883.00
OPERATING INCOME              708.00  1120.05  1598,51  1823.12  2274.73  2542.67  2631.85                       OPERATING INCOME              255.00   029.53  1264.70  1482.42  1569.34  t989.02  2257.41
TOTAL ASSETS                30284.00 39297,05 4-7/- 56 50370.68 55869.41 61792.08 67973.92                       TOTAL ASSETS                29814.00 34304.53 38339.23 42887.63 47802.62 49335.82 49974.57
TOTAL LIABILITIES           21095.00 27372'0 21.i13.00 35477.00 39587.00 44031.00 48710.00                       TOTAL LIABILITIES           19426.00 21009.00 23104.00 26011.00 29609.00 29584.00 28455.00
EQUITY                       9189.00 ll'21505 13359.56 14893.68 16282.41 17761.08 19263.92                       EQUITY                      10388.00 13295.53 15235.23 16876.63 18193.62 19751.82 21519.57
DETT  SERVICE                1138.00  1294.00  1599,00  1823.00  2274.00  2543.00  2632.00                       DEBT SERVICE                 1205.00  1033.00  1265.00  1482.00  1570.00  1990.00  2257.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT             5022.00  9460.00  5264.00  5383.00  52,77.00  5699.00  5942.00                      TOTAL INVESTMENT             2646.00  4095.00  3765.00  4224.00  4568.00  1172.00   917.00
TOTAL LOANS                  3613.00    J1.00  4618.00  4740.00  4935.00  5330.00  5604.00                       TOTAL LOANS                  1816.00  2595.00  2777.00  3729.00  4496.00  1115.00   199.00
TOTAL GRANTS                 1105.00  .:203.00   645.00   639.00   341.00   369.00   338.00                      TOTAL GRANTS                 1365.00  2353.00   965,00   495.00    72.00    57.00    53.00
Z INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      0.00     0.05     0.09      0.06     0.07     0.05      0.03                     % INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      0.00      0.13     0.11      0.06     0.04     0.04      0.05
Z INC. ACT./PROP. TAR,          0.00     0.10      0.09     0.06     0.07     0.05      0.03                     % INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.          0.00      0.14     0.11      0.06     0.04     0.04      0.05                 o.
CAERN
AGESPISA                                                                                                           -----
--------                                                                                                 SU1MARY FINANCIAL DATA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                          ----------------------
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1986     1987                                                   -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
TOTAL REVENUE                1171.00  1324.16  1591.86  1870.40  2164.27  2450.83  2699.79
TOTAL REVENUE                 819.00   866.46  1055.08  1261,73  1443.99  1685.00  1917.31                      TOTAL COST                    894.00  1059.17  1228.84  1404.25  1595.49  1775.14  1957.62
TOTAL COST                    534.00   580.68   641.15   732.66   832.07   946.09  1061.58                      INC. BEFORE DEP.              277.00   265.00   363.02   466.14   568.78   675.69   742.17
INC. BEFORE DEP.              205.00   285,78   413.93   529.07   611.92   738.91   855.73                     DEPRECIATION & AMORT.          139.00   150.00   178.00   224.00   267.00   310.00   335.00
DEPRECIATION I AMORT.         165.00   157.00   177.00   196.00   217.00   260.00   306,00                      OPERATING INCOME              138.00   115.00   185.02   242.14   301.78   365.69   407.17
OPERATING INCOME              120.00   128.78   236.93   333.07   394,92   478.91   549.73                     TOTAL ASSETS                  6279.00  7795.99  9367.02 11134.17 12980.70 15409.20 17880.86    '-'
TOTAL ASSETS                 4710.00  5898.79  7114.72  8824.79 10577.71 12048.63 13544.36                      TOTAL LIABILITIES            4449.00  5445.00  6546.00  7751.00  9027.00 10919.00 12812.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES            3496.00  4128.00  4789,00  5560.00  6431.00  6968.00  7562.00                      EQUITY                       1830.00  2350.99  2821.02  3383,17  3953.70  4490.20  5068.86        >  -
EOUITY                       1214.00  1770.79  2325.72  3264.79  4146.71  5080.63  5982.36                      DEBT SERVICE                  150.00   188.00   185.00   242.00   302.00   366.00   407.00        '7
DEBT SERVICE                  171.00   176.00   237.00   333.00   395.00   479.00   550.00                      TOTAL INVESTMENT             1838.00  1704.00  1402.00  1578,00  1665.00  2267.00  2300.00         '
TOTAL INVESTMENT             1136.00  1091,00  1081.00  1503.00  1370.00  1105.00  1220.00                      TOTAL LOANS                   412.00   997.00  1193.00  1335.00  1445.00  2104.00  2131.00        >
TOTAL LOANS                  1111.00   666.00   800.00   980,00  1122.00   846.00   950.00                     TOTAL GRANTS                  1171.00   377.00   245.00   283.00   242.00   154.00   159.00
TOTAL GRANTS                   43.00   442.00   338.00   612.00   489.00   451.00   334.00                     % INC. IN TAiIFF TO COMPLY       0.00      0.06     0.08    -0.01      0.01     0.00      0.00
7 INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      0.00    -0.01     0.12      0.06     0.05     0.11      0.04                   7 10   ACT,/PROP, TAR.           0.00      0.00     0.00    -0.01      0.01     0.00      0.00
2 INC. ACT./PROP. TAR,          0.00    -0.07     0.12      0.06     0.05     0.11      0.04



RAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECrOR PROJECr
Sumnary Financial Data
CEDAE
1981          1982          1983           1984          1985          1986           1987
Total Revenues                 13,231         15,364         19,918       22,562         25,435        29,016         33,087
Total Cost                     11,925         12,814         14,916       16,223         18,178        20,017         22,310
Inc. Before Dep.                1,306          2,550          4,997        6,348          7,257         8,999         10,777
Depreciation & AnDrt.           1,122          1,690          2,510        2,958          3,333         3,961          4,338
Operating Income                  184           860           2,487        3,390          3,924         5,038          6,439                    00
Total Assets                   58,149         89,267         98,362      109,729        122,400       136,130        150,375
Total Liabilities              30,239         37,653         45,304       54,855         65,534        76,911         88,299
Equity                         27,910         51,614         53,058       54,874         56,866        59,219         62,076
Debt Service                    1,716          1,838          2,492        3,381          3,917         5,040          6,435
Total Investment               11,621         31,685          9,599       11,994         15,576        16,147         17,486
Total Loans                     9,106         8,794           9,056       10,949         12,152        14,236         13,431
Total Grants                      121         23,560                    -                    -
% Inc.in Tariff to coly           -               0.23           0.22         0.20           0.08          0.13           0.06
% Inc.Act./Prop. Tar.              -              0.13            0.22         0.20           0.08          0.13           0.06
rtz
P) X
m w
l,_.n



HL-AZL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWFRAGF GGEM flPOJECT
axnary Finao2al Da
COhRSAN
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                              ----------------------
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1986     1987                                                       -------- -------- ----------------------------------------
TOTAL REVENUE                122.00   124.71   242.71   394.22   551.31   717.58   922.38
TOTAL REVENUE                4535,00  5662.78  6882.53  8083.53  9280.95 10561.82 11757.34                           TOTAL COST                    129.00   150.70   217.71   307.22   365.31   458.58   591.38
TOTAL COST                   3700.00  4534.67  5188.40  5872.16  6566.07  7265.21  7994.38                           INC. BEFORE DEP.               -7.00   -25.99    25.00    87.00   186.00   259.00   331.00
INC. BEFORE DEP.              035.00  1128.11  1694.13  2211,37  2714.78  3296.61  3762,96                           DEPRECIATION & AMORT.          13.00    18.00    24.00    53.00    97.00   129.00   163.00
DEPRECIATION U AMORT.         545-00   492.00   733,00   982,00  1207,00  1432.00  1618.00                           OPERATING INCOME              -20.00   -43.99     1.00    34.00    89.00   130.00   168.00
OPEPATING INCOME              290.00   636.11   961.13  1229.37  1507.78  1864.61  2144.96                           TOTAL ASSETS                 1274.00  1944.01  5402.07  7047.44  8612.36 11445.25 14055.32
TOTAL ASSETS                19253,00 30038,11 37287.24 43225.61 49000.39 55215.00 61406.96                           TOTAL LIABILITIES              100.00   196.00  2468.00  3911.00  5194.00  7668.00  9927.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES           10459.00 17015.00 20406.00 23796.00 26756.00 29874.00 32916.00                           EQUITY                       1174.00  1748.01  2934.07  3136.44  3418.36  3777.25  4128.32
EQUITY                       8794.00 13023.11 16081.24 19429.61 22324.39 25341.00 28490.96                            DEBT SERVICE                   0.00     0.00      1.00    34.00    89.00   130.00   168.00
DEBT SERVICE                  487.00   719.00   961.00  1230.00  1509.00  1864.00  2144.00                           TOTAL INVESTMENT                0.00   698.00  3440.00  1630.00  1527.00  2a97.00  2708.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT             5108.00 11211.00  7171.00  5774.00  5649.00  5028.00  5028.00                            TOTAL LOANS                     0.00    96.80  2266.00  1474.00  1374.00  2608.00  2436.00
TOTAL LOANS                  3959.00  6781.00  3662.00  3748.00  3424.00  3652.00  3652.00                           TOTAL GRANTS                    0.00   617.00  1182.00   197.00   269.00   209.00   153.00
TOTAL GRANTS                 1527.00  3950.00  3408.00  1976.00  2176.00  2176.00  2176.00                            7 INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      0.00     0.54     0.12     0.12     0.20     0.05    -0.01
INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY      o,oo     0.11     0.14      0.09     0,09     0.09     0.07                          T INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.          0.00     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.20     0.05     0.01
i INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.          o.oo     0.16      0.14     0.09     0.09     0.09      0.07
DESO
CASAN                                                                                                       ----
-----                                                                                           SUMARY FINANCIAL DATA
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA                                                                                    ---------------
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987
a91     1982    1983      1984     1985     1986    1987                                              -
TOTAL REVENUE                 682.00   801.37  1043.21  1300.30  1573.36  1874.08  2144.70
TOTAL REVENUE               1719.00  2097.80  2624.69  3209.80  3714.21  4503.79  5787.23              TOTAL COST                     572.00   64.05   742.16   888.16  1093.56  1321.07  1552.60
TOTAL COST                  1765.00  2093.80  1993.42  2297.48  2607.60  2934.54  3261.80              INC. BEFORE DEP.               110.60   157.32   301.06   412.14   479.80   553.01   592.10
INC. BEFORE DEP.             -46.00     4.00   631.27   912.32  1106.61  1569.24  2525.43              DEPRECIATIIN I AMORT.           63.00   142.00   258.00   319.00   362.00   412.00   446.00
DEPRECIATION & ANORT.        195.00   153.40   299.00   380.00   447.00   630.00   887.00              OPERATING INCOME                47.00    15.32    43.06    93.14   117.80   141.01   146.10
OPERATING INCOME            -241.00  -149.40   332.27   532.32   659.61   939.24  1638.43              TOTAL ASSETS                  6663.00  8241.32 10381.37 12835.64 15200.10 16922.99 18556.07  
TOTAL ASSETS               10087.00 13113.82 16920.09 21964.41 27715.03 35082.27 41058.69             TOTAL LIABILITIES             1908.00  2397.00  3119.00  3755.00  4415.00  4720.00  5001.00         . z
TOTAL LIABILITIES           6069.00  7913.00 10373.00 14623.00 19608.00 26131.00 30854.00              EQUITY                        4755.00  5B44.32  7262.37  9080.64 10785.10 12202.99 13555.07       2 >
EQUITY                      4018.00  5200.82  6547.09  7341.41  8027.03  8951.27 10204.69              DEBT SERVICE                    36.00    31.00    43.00    93.00   118.00   141.00   146.00
DEsT SERVICE                 382.00   235.00   332.00   532.00   660.00   940.00  1639.80              TOTAL INVESTMENT              2972.00  1455.00  2051.00  2344.00  2235.00  1578.00  1467.00       t
TOTAL INVESTMENT            1281.00  2667.00  3265.00  4659.00  5532.00  7092.00  5682.00              TOTAL LOANS                   316.00   312.00   744.00   687.00   727.00   390.00   368.00        0
TOTAL LOANS                  576.00  1983.00  2621.00  4477.00  5347.00  6855.00  5442.00              TOTAL GRANTS                  2587.00  1010.00  1307.00  1657.00  1507.00  1187.00  1098,00
TOTAL GRANTS                1145.00  1362.00  1057.00   427.00   250.00   350.00   350.00             X INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY       0.00      0.10     0.09     0.07    -0.06    -0.05    -0.06
Y INC. IN TARIFF TO COMPLY     0.00     0.16     0.12     0.05     0.05     0.09     0.20              1 INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.          0.00      0.08     0.09      0.07    -0.06    -0.05    -0.06
7 INC. ACT./PROP. TAR.         0.00     0.04     0.12     0.05     0.05     0.09     0.20



WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SEMCOR PROJECT
Sumnary Financial Data
SABFSP
1981        1982        1983         1984        1985         1986        1987
Total Revenues             31,529      37,351        43,815     47,735       55,062      62,614       70,306
Total Cost                 21,356      22,751        25,505     28,310       31,376      34,723       38,398
Inc. Before Dep.           10,173      14,6C0        18,310     19,425       23,686      27,891       31,908
Depreciation & Amort.       4,729       5,355         6,185      7,064        8,652      10,187       11,119
Operating Income            5,444       9,245        12,125     12,361       15,034      17,704       20,709                     1
Total Assets              313,059     356,685       411,999    465,060      514,252     580,309      654,463
Total Liabilities         210,084     235,213       269,78B    335,441      335,088     378,005      427,682                    
Equity                    102,975      121,472      142,211     158,619     179,164     202,304      226,781
Debt Service                9,760      10,753        12,126     12,365       15,055      17,700       20,710
Total iavestnert           58,7C7      43,856        49,074     45,926       42,895      59,568       67,531
Total Loans                45,186      31,569        38,118     38,292       35,714      51,553       59,976
Total Grants                7,602      16,072        16,562     12,748       11,284      12,162       11,549
% Inc.in Tariff to comply       -           0.13         0.08        0.03        0.09         0.07        0.06
% Inc.Act./Prop. Tar.          -            0.13         0.08        0.03        0.09         0.07        0.06
o x
rt
,-



BRAZIL
WATIER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECrOR PROJFCr
SWCs' Financial Performance
Year Projected to Meet Financial Targets
Recovery Plan
SrArE (SWC)                Compliance          Positive        Rate of Return        Debt Service         Target I/
with NL          Cash Flow         - 0t        - 4%      Ratio - 1.3          UPC 000            1983      1984    1985
Acre (SANACRE) 2/
Alagoas (CASAL)                            1983               1983          1983       1983          1983
kmapa (CAESA) 2/
Amazonas (C(SAMA)                          1983               1983          1983       N.A.          1983
Bahia (EMRASA)                             1983               1983          1983       1984          1983
Ceara (CAGECE)                             1983               1983          1983       1984          1983
Espirito Santo (CESAN)                     1983               1983          1983       1983          1983
Federal District (CAESB)                   1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Goias (SANEAGO)                            1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Maranhao (CAEMA)                           1985               1984          1984       1984 3/        1984                               251.3     10.8      0
Mato Grosso (SANEMAT)                      1985               1984          1984        -             1984                               192.8    112.5      0
Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL)               1985               1984          1983        -             1983                               94.3      73.8      0
Minas Gerais (COPASA)                      1983               1983          1983       N.A.           1983
Para (CDSANPA)                             1983               1983          1983       1985          1983
Paraiba (CA!EPA)                           1985               1983          1983        -             1983                               104.4     50.0      0
Parana (SANEPAR)                           1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Pernambico (CXMPESA)                       1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Piaui (AGESPISA)                           1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Rio de Janeiro (CEDAE)                     1983               1983          1983       1984           1983
Rio Grande do Norte (CAERN)                1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Rio Grande do Sul (CORSAN)                 1983              1983           1983       1983          1983
Rondonia (CAERD)                           1983              1983           1983       -             1983
Roraim (CAER) 2/
Santa Catarina (CASAN)                     1983              1983           1983       1984          1983
Sao Paulo (SABESP)                        1983               1983           1983       1983          1983
Sergipe (DESO)                             1983              1983           1983        -            1983
1/ Recovery plan target represents the shortfall in maeting the NML objectives, which specify that operating reveries should equal the sum of operating
costs, depreciation and debt service.
2/  These SWCs will not comply with the NML by 1985 and are excluded from the project.                                                                     >
3/ Rate of return drops to 3% in 1985.
N.A. - NDt available for mission review.
0 u



TEAZIL
WATER SPY AND S0WVMAWE.               PRO
Monitoring Indicators
SANACRE                                                                                                       CASAL
MONITDRING INDICATORS                                                                                       MONITORING INDICATORS
19B1     1982      19B3     1984      19B5     1986      19B7                                               1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
POPULATION - 000               144.I 0   152,00   160.00   168.00   177.00   187.00   197.00                POPULATION - 000              10i8,00  1056,00  1097.00  1136.00  1182.00  1228.00  127B.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         t5.80    19.90    22,20    25.00    28.00    31.00    34.00                WTER CONNECTIONS - 000          112.00   138.00   161.00   182,00   192.00   218.00   234.00
Z SERVED WATER                   0.54      0,65     0.69      0.74     0.78      0.82     0.86             X SERVED WATER                    0.71      0.78      0.73     0.80      0.81      0.89     0.92
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000       0.00      0.50     2.60      5.00     9.00    11.00    18.00               SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      8300       9,00    10,00    11.00    12.00    15.00    19.00
Z SERVED SEUERAGE                0.00      0.02     0,08      0.15     0.24      0.29     0.46              I SERVED SEWERAGE                0.04      0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05      0.06     0.07
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. N3       5.13      5.90     6.58      6.96     7.93      8.92      9.98             VOLUME SOLD WATER -NLN. 83      23.40    29.03    33.07    37.00    40.00    44.00    47.99
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3      7.34      9.02     9.55      9.67    10.60    11.54    12.54               VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. K3    33,90    40.20    45.16    47.74    50.16    55.00    59.99
Z UNACCT'D. WATER               36.00    34.60    31.10    20.00    25.20    22.70    20.40                 Z UNACCT'D. WATER               30.97    27.79    25.01    22.51    20.26    20.00    20.00
AVG. RED'D. TARIFF              33.14    30.75    32.73    37.01    38.39    36.18    34.80                 AVG, REO'D. TARIFF              38.49    28.76    31.04    34.33    35.60    40.01    44.94
AVG, ACT./PROP. TARIFF          22.22    24.08    28.85    33.62    30.39    36.18    34.80                 AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF          20.01    31.52    31.04    34.33    35.60    40.81    44.94
Z OPERATING RATIO                1.44      1,26     1.11      1.00     0.83      0,85     0.87              X OPERATING RATIO                 1.06     0.74      0.82     0.80      0.70      0.74     0.71
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                236.00   247.00   2B2,00   296.00   313.00   319,00   359.00                 TOTAL EMPLOYEES                074.00   945.00  1123,00  1188.00  1179.00  1262.00  1285.00
EMP./OOO CONNECT.               14.94    12.11    11.37       9.87     8.46      7.60      6.90             EMP./000 CONNECT.                 7,34     6.43      6.57     6.16      5.78      5.42      5.08
2 PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.64      0.65     0.65      0.64     0.63      0.61      0.62             2 PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSIS           0.67     0.61      0.62     0.61      0.60      0.59      0.57
X DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY             0.10      0.19     0.22      0.25     0.23      0.20      0.19             X DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY              0.45     0.46      0.51     0.53      0.55      0.60      0.62
X SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.19      0.19     0.18      0.17     0.17      0.17      0.17             X SALES/RECEIVABLES               0.11     0.11      0.11      0.11     0.11      0.11      0.11
I RATE OF RETURN                -0.10    -0.07    -0.03       0.00     0.04      0.03      0.02             X RATE OF RETURN                 -0.00     0,06      0.04      0.04     0.04      0.05      0.05
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               5.00      9.66    10.69      3.13     2.66      3.02      3.35             DEBT SERVICE RATIO                0.11     2.04      1.63      1.58     1.55      1.52      1.51
Z CONT. TO INVESTMENT            0.00      0.90     0.13      0.08     0.12      0.16     0.13              X CONT. TO INVESTMENT            -0,07     0.39      0.05      0.05     0.05      0.07      0.13
EPBASA
CAESA
_----                                                                                                       PWNITORING INDICATORS
MONITORIN6 INDICATORS                                                                                                 -----------
1901     1902     1903      1904     1985     198b      1987
1981     1982     1983      1984      1985     1986    1Y7                                                         -------- -------- --------  --           -- -
POPULATION - 000             4027.00  4314.00  4634.00  4935.00  5228.00  5537.00  5858.00
POPILATION - 000               130.00   145.00   155.00   166.00   181.00   198.00   216.00                            WATER CONNECTIONS -000         651.00   704.00   700.00   852.00   927.00  1002.00  1080.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         16.00    1B.00    20.00    22.00    25.00    28.00    31.00                            Z SERVED WATER                   0.73     0.75     0.75      0.78     0.60      0.81     0.04
X SERVED WATER                   0.72      0.74     0.77      0.80     0.83      0.85     0.86                         SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      62.00    67.00    75.00    82.00   104.00   112.00   126.00
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000       1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     2.00      2.00                        l SERVED SEWERAGE                0.07     0.07     0.07      0.07     0.09     0.09      0.10
I SERVED SEWERAGE                0.05      0.04     0.04      0.04     0.03      0.06     0.06                         VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. K3    135.00   149.61   162.96   180.04   201.01   210.96   242.06
VOLLUE SOLD WATER -MLN. N3       4.80      5.42     6.40      6.91     8.24      9.23    10.46                         VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. P3   237.60   245.27   251.94   263.96   201.57   294.89   356.96
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3      7.00      7.97     8.99      9.32    10.74    11,69    13.07                          2 UNACCT'D. WATER               41.92    39.00    35.32    31.79    28.61    25.75    32.17               m
I UNACCT'D. WATER               31.43    32,00    28.80    25,92    23.33    21.00    20.00                                                                                                                                        W
AVG. RED'D. TARIFF             28.94    30.22    31.34    32.1B    33.20    34.16    36.32              o
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF              18,40    20.46    21.67    22.37    21.32    21.19    21.16                            AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIF           28.61    30.09    31.34    32.10    33.20    34.16    36.33
AVG. ACT,/PROP, TARIFF          12.00    13.63    16.19    18.75    21.32    21.19    21.16                            T OPERATING RATIO                0.00     087      0.01     0.79      0.70     0.77      0,74
I OPERATING RATIO                1,48      1.45     1.31      1.10      1.00     1.00      1.00                        TOTAL EMPLOYEES               4353.00  4700.00  4950.00  5200.00  5550.00  5793.00  6070.00
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                179.00   230.00   229.00   234.00   236.00   236.00   236.00                            ENP.l000 CONNECT.               6.11      6.10     5.79     3.57      5.38     5.20      5.00
EMP,/000 CONCT,                 10.84    12.11    10.90    10.17        9.08     7.87     7-15                         0 PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.57     0.61     0.60      0.60     0,61     0.60      0.59
I PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.67      0.67     0.64      0.63     0.60      0.58     0.55                         I DEDT/DERT & EQUITY            0.69      0,59     0.60     0.01      0.62     0.64     0.65
X DEBT/DEBT t EQUITY             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    P0.0        0.00                        I SALES/RECEIVADLES              0.17     0.17     0.17      0.17     0.17     0.17      0.17
X SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.15      0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15                         I RATE OF RETURN                0.02      0.03     0.03     0.04      0.04     0.05     0.05
X RATE OF RETURN                -0.16    -0.22    -0.15    -0.10       0.00      0.00     0.00                         DEDT SERVICE RATIO               0.67     1.20     1.62      1.56     1.52      1.47     1.42
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                                   I                                                   CONT. TO INVESTMENT          -0.27      0.09     0.10     0.10      0.00     0.09      0.09
X CONT. TO INESTHENT            -0.25      0.54     0.30      0.51     0.93      1.05      1.12



FPAZIL
WATFE SUPPLY AND SOERAGIE S9 XR PR0JET
Monitoring  Indicators                                                      CAES
CAMECE
OONITORING INDICATTRS
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                               ---------------------
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987
1981     1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987                                                     --------------------------------------------------------
PMPULATION - 000               1176.00  1209.00  1239.00  1267.00  1292.00  1315.00  1336.00
POPULATION - 000              2054.00  2198.00  2291.00  2590.00  3001.00  3187.00  3375.00                         WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         297.00   311.00   322.00   331.00   340.00   348.00   355.00
WATER CONNECTIONS -000         180.00   257.00   322.00   413.00   546.00   599.00   657.00                         I SERVED WATER                    0.95     0.95      0.96      0.97     0.97      0.98      0.98
I SERVED WATER                   0.38      0.49     0.59      0.67     0.76      0.80      0.84                     SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000    193.00   200.00   245.00   269.00   320.00   333.00   346.00
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      37.00    39.00    65.00    88.00   112.00   138.00   164.00                         Z SERVED SEWERAGE                 0.50     0.61      0.73      0.79     0.92      0.94      0.96
X SERVED SEWERAGE                0.06      0.06     0.09      0.11     0.12      0.14      0.16                     VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3    117.95   120.92   126.86   125.48   126.56   127.33   127.71
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3      39.51    55.91    72.88    90.15   115.71   125.00   134.97                         VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. H3   152.23   156.02   159.09   156.85   158.20   159.16   159.63
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3    53.36    79.25    99.15   118.38   147.34   156.25   168.72                          X UNACCT'D. WATER                22.52    22.50    20.26    20.00    20.00    20.00    20.00
X UNACCT'D. WATER               25.96    29.45    26.50    23.85    21.47    20.00    20.00
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF                9.60     9.67    10.19    11.58    12.84    15.17    16.83
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF              22.92    23.75    24.65    26.72    28.40    30.90    32.52                         AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF            8.55     9.67    10.19    11.58    12.84    15.17    16,83
AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF          20.84    21.38    24.65    26.72    28.40    30.90    32.52                         X OPERATING RATIO                 1.00     0.80      0.80      0.79     0.78      0.74      0.73
I OPERATING RATIO                 1.21    0.97      0.86      0.82      0.78     0.75      0.73                     TOTAL EMPLOYEES                1660.00  1751.00  1963.00  2078.00  2281.00  2356.00  2424,00
TOTAL EMPLOYEES               1264.00  1485.00  1854.00  2298.00  2885.00  3089.00  3294.00                         EMP./000 CONNECT.                 3.39     3.43      3.46      3.46     3.46      3.46      3.46
EHP./OOO CONNECT.                5.84      5.02     4.79      4.59      4.38     4.19      4.01                     X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS           0.54     0.63      0.66      0.66     0.68      0.68      0.69
Z PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.69      0.70     0.70      0.70      0.69     0.69      0.68                     I DEBT/DEBT I EGUITY              0.44     0.44      0.49      0.50     0.52      0.53      0.52
X DEBT/DEBT S EQUITY             0.61      0.65     0.66      0.68      0.69     0.67      0.65                     I SALES/RECEIVABLES               0.14     0.14      0.14      0.14     0.14      0.14      0.14
I SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.22      0.22     0.21      0.20      0.19     0.18      0.17                     X RATE OF RETURN                  0.00      0.04     0,04      0.04     0.04      0.04      0.04
X RATE OF RETURN                -0.03      0-.0     0.03      0.04      0.07     0.08      0.09                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO                0.64      1.41     1.70      1.70      1.70    1.70       1.60
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                0.81     1.32     2.66      2.18      1.90     1.85      1.83                     X CONT. TO INVESTMENT             0.58    -0.08      0.04      0.06     0.18      0.18      0.80
X CONT. TO INVESTMENT           -0.91    -0.04      0.13      0.11      0.11     0.22      0.31
SANEAGO                                                                                                                      CAEMA
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                                      MONITORING INDICATORS
1981     1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987                                                              1981      1902     1903     1984     1905      1986     1987
POPULATION - 000              2037.00  2159.00  2369.00  2636.00  2791.00  2947.00  3090.00                                 POPULATION - 000              1163.00  1214.00  1275.00  1338.00  1406.00  1476.00  1552.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000        235.00   261.00   296.00   343.00   394.00   446.00   500.00                                  WATER CONNECTIONS - 000        110.00   127.00   139.00   181.00   213.00   234.00   245.00
X SERVED WATER                   0.55      0.58     0.60      0.62      0.68     0.73      0.78                              I SERVED WATER                  0.52      0.58     0.60     0.74      0.83     0.87      0.87
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      64.00    76.00    84.00   105.00   117.00   144.00   166.00                                  SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      32.00    33.00    33.00    40.00    43.00    60.00    64.00
X SERVED SEWERAGE                0.16      0.17     0.17      0.19      0.20     0.23      0.26                              t SERVED SEWERAGE                0.15     0.15     0.14      0.16     0.17     0.22      0.23
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3      95.23   103.92   119.52   137.19   157.40   177.95   199.50                                  VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3      24.50    28.76    33.07    42.99    50.72    59.76    63.74
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. H3   118.31   128.74   148.07   169.95   194.99   220.46   247.15                                   VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3    50.90    51.26    54.04    66.75    74.59    03.93    86.02        
X UNACCT'D. WATER                19.51    19.28    19.28    19.28    19.28    19.28    19.28                                 1 UNACCT'D. WATER               52.00    43.90    3S.B0    35.60    32.00    28.80    25.90
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF               16.21    16.29    17.11    17.81    18.50    20.03    20.99                                 AVG  RED'. TARiFF               31.11    29.30    29.62    25.99    25.94    28.65    29.83              o
AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF           14.91    16.94    17.11    17.81    18.50    20.03    20.99                                 AVG. ACT.PROP. TARIFF           19.77    20.68    23.912    5.79    25.94    28.65    29.83
X OPERATING RATIO                0.95      0.82     0.83      0.81      0.80     0.75      0.72                              2 OPERATING RATIO                1.34     1.15      1.01     0.81     0.S0     0.82      0.80
TOTAL EMPLOYEES               2566.00  2874.00  2915.00  3086.00  3165.00  3279.00  3330.00                                  TOTAL EMPLOYEES               1569.00  170B.00  168O.00  1989.00  2176.00  2012.00  2102.00
EMP./OOO CONNECT.                8.59      8.53     7.67      6.89      6.19     5.56      5.00                              EMP./000 CONNECT.               11.03    10.68      9.77     9.00     0.50     7.37      7.05
7 PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.64      0.69     0.66      0.64      0.62     0.60      0.57                              I PERSONNELITOTAL COSTS          0.56      0.63     0.60     0.58      0.56     0.55     0.54
X DEBT/DEBT S EQUITY              0.63     0.57      0.52     0.56      0.63     0.66      0.67               t                DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY             0.22     0.21      0.24     0.24     0.26      0.29     0.30
X SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.25      0.25     0.23      0.21      0.19     0.18      0.17                              I SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.40      0.40     0.35     0.30      o.25     0.20     0.17
X RATE OF RETURN                  0.01     0.05      0.05     0.05      0.04     0.05      0.05                              1 RATE OF RETURN                -0.00    -0.04      0.00     0.04      0.03     0.03     0.04
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.47      1.56      1.54     1.51      1.55     1.44      1.40                              DEBT SERVICE RATIO              -0.91    -0.02      0.53     1.53      1.56     2.10      1'99
X CONT. TO INVESTMENT           -0.91      0.04      0.05     0.04      0.06     0.07      0.11                              I CONT. To INVESTMENT           -0.04      0,03   -0.11      0.05      0.07     0,17



WATR SJPY s   S& EAQE SOLIU  PR8               7T
SANEMAT                                   Njnitoring  Indicators                                                            SANESUL
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                                        MONITORING INDICATORS
1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986      1987                                                              1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      19B7
POPULATION - 000                 656.00   769.00   868.00   949.00  1050.00  1164.00  1289,00                                 POPULATION - 000                 863.00   957.00  1063.00  1171.00  1250.00  1332.00  1419.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000           93,00   115.00   134.00   151.00   183.00   201.00   222.00                                 WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         116.00   137.00   162.00   174.00   184.00   208.00   217.00
I SERVED WATER                     0.64      0.67      0.69      0.72      0.78      0.78      0.78                           7 SERVED WATER                     0.62     0.66      0.70      0.68      0.68     0.72      0.70
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000         9.00    17.00    25.00    29.00    35.00    42.00    45.00                                 SEWERASE CONNECTIONS - 000        23.00    32.00    32.00    33.00    34.00    35.00    43.00
Z SERVED SEWERAGE                  0.06      0.10      0.13      0.14      0.15      0.16      0,16                           1 SERVED SEWERAGE                  0.13      0.15     0.14      0.13      0.13     0.12      0.14
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3        33.00    36,86    45.01    53.00    63.99    71.15    78,59                                 VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3       28.90    35.35    46.09    50.76    54.45    64.57    68.80
VOLUME PROD. WATER -11LN. M3    51.00    56,71    65.70    74.02    85.89    92.41    99.10                                    VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3    51.60    58.42    71.57    74.69    76.52    87.20    89.77
X UNACCT'D, WATER                 35.29    35.00    31.50    28.40    25.50    23.00    20.70                                 1 UNACCETD. WATER                43.99    39.50    35.60    32.04    28.84    25.95    23.36
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF                26.06    32.67    23.08    25.54    25.39                                                   AVG. REG'D. TARIFF                15.79    18.78    20.40    23.90    25.30    30.80    30.52
AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF            12.14    14.97    19.21    23.63    25.39                                                   AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF            15.24    16.63    18.72    22.69    25.39    30.80    30.52
X OPERATING RATIO                  1.99      1.53      1.03      0.92      0.88                                                l OPERATIN  RATIO                1.36      1.25      1.00     0.87      0.81      0.74     0.75
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                  B01.00   918.00   B91.00   994.00  1186.00                                                   TOTAL EMPLOYEES                 842.00   063.00   829.00   884.00   922.00  1081.00  1108.00
EMP./000 CONNECT.                  7.85      6.95      5.60      5.52      5.44                                                ENP.1000 CONNECT.                 6.03      5.11     4.27      4.27      4.27      4.45     4.26
X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS            0.58      0.62      0.56      0.56      0.56                                               X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS            0.61     0.64      0.61      0.60      0.60     0.60      0.60
0 EBT/DEBT I EQUITY               0.56      0.60      0.65      0.69      0.70                                               2 DEBT/DERT & EQUITY               0.47      0.64     0.65      0.65      0.63     0.65      0.67
X SALES/RECEIVABLES                0.18      0.18      0.17      0.17      0.17                                               X SALES/RECEIVABLES                0.23     0.23      0.22      0.21      0.20     0.19      0.17
Z RATE OF RETURN                  -0.14    -0.09    -0.01        0.02      0.03                                                I RATE OF RETURN                 -0.08    -0.06      0.00      0.02      0.03      0.05     0.05
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                -9.69    -4.26       0.83      1.50      2.16                                               DEBT SERVICE RATIO                -1.80    -3.42      1.85      1.74      2.08     1.68      1.76
X CONT. TO INVESTMENT             -0.08    -0.14    -0.03        0.02      0.07                                                2 CONT. TO INVESTMENT            -0.07    -0.04      0.00      0.08      0.19      0.12     0.15
CA6EPh
COSANPA                                                                                                                        ---
COSA NP A                                                                                                                 MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                                          ----
1981     1982      1903      1984     8985    196        1987
1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986      1987                                                                            ---- -------- -------- -------- --
POPULATION - 000               1543.00  1601.00  1661.00  1718.00  1782.00  1854.08  1916.00
POPULATION - 000                1616.00  1705.00  1799.00  1890.00  2002.00  2113.00  2230.00                                   WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         232.00   246.00   261.00   27b.00   297.00   309.00   374.69
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000          201.00   218.00   236.00   256.00   283.00   308.00   334.00                                   7 SERVED WATER                     0.75     0.77      0.79      0.80     0.82      0.83      0.85
X SERVED WATER                     0.67      0.69      0.71      0.73     0.76      0.79      0.88                              LEVERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000       53.00    55.00    58.o0      62.00    66.08    69.00    73.0o
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000        13.00    13.00    13.00    13.00    13.00    22.00    69.00                                   1 SERVED SEWERAGE                 0.16      0.17      0.17      0.18     0.19      0.19      0.19
X SERVED SEWERAGE                  0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04      0.06      0.17                              VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3       45.50    48.32    50.99    52.99    55.50    58.99    63.01
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3        75.03    79.47    93.12   100.09   110.03   119.53   127.69                                   VOLUME PROD. WAFER -MLN. 93    83.00    88.02    05.84    83.52    82.70    83.78    84.52 
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3   138.57   142.68   145.22   147.82   155.10   161.88   167.01                                      z UNACCTD. WATER                 45.18    45.10    40.60    36.54    32.09    29.09    26.03
z UNACCT'D. WATER                 45.85    39.87    35.88    32.29    29.06    26.16    23.54                                                                                                                                               D00
AVG. REQGD. TARIFF               18.82    21.44    23.52    27.36    28.79
AVG. RE1D. TARIFF                 12.02    14.52    15.22    16.97    19.72    20.19    IB.OB                                   AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF           17.73    19.90    22.00    28.67    28.79                                  oI
AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF            12.70    15.20    15.22    16.97    19.72    20.19    18.0R                                   I OPERATING RATIO                 1.19      1.01      0.90     0.86      0.84
% OPERATING RATIO                  1.00      0.92      0.92     0.90      0.84      8.83      0.81                              TOTAL EMPLOYEES                1605.00  1680.00  1592.00  1686.00  1786,00
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                 1150.00  1222.00  1275.00  1329.00  1409.00  1477.00  1615.00                                   EMP./OOO CONNECT.                 5.63      5.58     4.90      4.99      4,99
EMP./000 CONNECT.                  5.37      5.29      5.12     4.94      4.76      4.48      4.01                              Z PERSONNEL,'TOTAI COSTS          0.66     0.07      0.66      0.66      0.66
X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS            0.29      0.53      0.53     0.52      0.51      0.51      0.51                              1 DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY              0.78      0.70     0.74      0.72      0.69
X DEBT/DEET 0 EQUITY               0.32      0.43      0.53     0.62      0.64      0.63      0.60                             X SALES/RECEIVABLES                0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10
Z SALES/RECEIVABLES                0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16     0.16      0.16      0.16                              Z RATE OF RETURN                 -0.03      0.00     0.02      0.03      0.0'
X RATE OF RETURN                   0.08      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.04      0.04      0.05                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO               -0.31      0.00      1.63      1.76     2.14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 2.17      2.06      3.04     2.73      2.13      2.08      1.89                              Z CONT. TO INVESTMENT            -0.90    -0.09      0.05      0.i2      0.i5
X CONT. TO INVESTMENT              0.08      0.12      0.11     0,10      0.10      0.30      0.49



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND ShWEAGE S301P71  PRO=
SANEPAR                             Monitoring  IndicatCrs
SANEPAR                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPESA
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                        MONITORING INDICATORS
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986      1987                                                  1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986      1987
POPULATION - 000             4077.00  4387.00  4681.00  5000,00  5428.00  5773,00  6103.00                   POPULATION - 000             3546.00 3663.00  38o6c  3935-00 4C71-00 41S7.o 4327.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000       8000.o    910.00  1007.00  1101.00  1201.00  1293.00  1376.00                  WATER CONNECTIONS - 000       545.00   578.00   634,00   678.00   720.00   764.00   810.00
X SERVED WATER                  0.79     0.83     0.86      0,88     0.89     0.90     0,90                  Z SERVED WATER                   0.67     0.69     0.73      0.76     0,78     0.80     0.82
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000    230.00   272,00   307.00   335.00   367.00   388.00   406.00                   SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000    127.00   137.00   151.00   166.00   184,00   206.00   240.00
Z SERVED SEWERAGE               0.21     0.25     0.26      0.27     0.27     0.27     0.27                  X SERVED SEWERAGE                0.15     0.16     0.17      0.19     0.20     0.22      0.24
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN, M3    161.20   179.31   197.21   211.92   231.02   245,00   257.92                   VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3    153.00   164.59   178,03   189.98   198.03   216.00   225.99
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3   215.00   233,90   249.63   264.90   288.78   306.25   322.40                   VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN, M3   259.00   258.34   264,37   269.05   269.28   283.50   287.63
X UNACCT'D. WATER              25.02    23.34    21.00    20.00    20.00    20,00    20.00                   X UNACCT'D. WATER               40.93    36.29    32.66    29.39    26.46    23.81    21.43
AVG, REO'D. TARIFF             19.80    21.99    25.33    26,81    28.63    29,92    30.73                   AVG. REO'D. TARIFF              17.S4    18.76    20.92    22.00    22.90    23.80    24.97
AG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF         20.94    23,14    25.33    26.81    28,63    29.92    30.73                   AVG. ACT,/PROP. TARIFF          16,54    18.85    20.92    22.08    22.90    23.80    24.97
X OPERATING RATIO               0.86     0,81     0.78     0.78      0.76     0.76     0.77                  2 OPERATING RATIO                0.93     0.80     0.75      0.74     0.75     0.73      0.72
TOTAL EMPLOYEES              3119.00  3299.00  3577.00  3739.00  3997.00  4117.00  4230.00                   TOTAL EMPLOYEES               3293.00  3626.00  3797.00  4020.00  4244,00  4487.00  4730.00
EMP4/000 CONNECT.               3.03     2.79     2.72     2.60      2.55     2.45     2.37                  EMP./OO0  CONNECT.               4.90     5.07     4.84      4.76     4.69     4.63      4.50
X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS         0.51     0,56     0.56     0.55      0.55     0.54     0.53                  X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.69     0.67     0.67      0.67     0.68     0.60     0.68
X DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY            0.68     0.69     0.69     0.69      0.70     0,70     0.71                  X DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY             0.64     0.60     0.59      0.60     0.61     0.59      0.56
X SALES/RECEIVABLES             0.19     0.17     0.17     0.17      0.17     0.17     0.17                  X SALES/RECEIVABLES              0,16     0.16     0.16      0.16     0.16     0.16      0.16
X RATE OF RETURN                0.04     0.05     0.06     0.06      0.07     0.08     0.08                  XRAIE OF RETURN                  0.01     0.04      0.06     0.06     0.06     0.07      0.07
DEBT SERVICE RATIO              1.42     1.76     1.75      1.77     1.68     1.66     1.69                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.85     1.51      1.64     1.60     1.63     1.54      1.52
Z CONT. TO INVESTMENT           0.11     0.10     0.20     0.24      0.26     0.27     0.29                  X CONT. TO INVESTMENT            0.08     0.21     0.19      0.20     0.21     0.02      1.19
CAERN
AGESPISA
--------                                                                                               MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                        ---------------------
1981     1982     1984     1985      1986     1987     1987
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986      1987                                                     __- -           __  _ _  _                         --------
POPULATION - 000              976.00  1083.00  1147,00  1211.00  1281.00  1367.00  1427.00
OPULATION - 000               920.00   965,00  1013.00  1063.00  1115.00  1171.00  1229.00                   WATER CONNECTIONS - 000       160.00   194.00   213.00   230.00   250.00   265.00   281.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000       123.00   144,00   152.00   167.00   183.00   199.00   214.00                   X SERVED WATER                  0.75      0.82     0.85     0.87     0.90      0.89     0.91
X SERVED WATER                  0.69     0.73     0.74     0.77      0.80     0.83     0.85                  SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000     12.00    14.00    23.00    32.00    42.00    54.00    66,00
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      5.00     5.00     5.00     5.00      5.00     8.00    12.00                  T SERVED SEWERAGE               0,06      0.06     0.09     0.12      0.15     0.18     0.21
% SERVED SEWERAGE               0.03     0.03     0.02     0.02      0.02     0.03     0.05                  VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3     38.60    45.84    51.12    55.20    60.00    63.60    67.44
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3     31.40    35.91    37.50    41.12    45.00    48.98    52.57                   VOLUME PROD, WATER -MLN. M3    63.50    68.83    73.66    75.72    79.37    81.43    84.30
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3    52.80    56.77    56.02    58.55    61.46    64,54    67.14                   Z UNACCT'D. WATER              39.21    33.40    30.60    27.10    24.40    21.90    20.00         . 
X UNAECI'D. UATER              40.53    36,75    33.06    29.77    26.79    24.11    21,70
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF             24.95    26.09    26,56    26.19    26.58    26.68    26.56
AVG. RED'D, TARIFF             25.61    23.73    25.13    26.56    27.89    30.91    32.11                  AVG. ACT,/PROP. TARIFF          24.68    24.68    26.56    26.19    26.58    26.68    26.56         4 
AYG, ACT./PROP. TARIFF         24.05    22.46    25.13    26,56    27.89    30.91    32.11                   X OPERATIrO RATIO               0.88      0.91     0.88     0.87     0.86      0.85     0.85        o
% OPERATING RATIO               0.05     0.5     0.78     0,74     0.73      0.72     0.71                  TOTAL EMPLOYEES              1168.00  1321.Q0  1412.00  1511.00  1601.00  1674.00  1733.00         s
TOTAL EMPLOYEES               015.00   872.00   094.00   948.00  1000.00  1069.00  1131.00                   EMP./000 CONNcT.                6.77     6.35      5.98     5.77     5.48      5.25     4.99
EMP./000 CONNECT.               6,39     5.85     5.69     5.51      5.32     5.16     5,00                  X PERSONNEL/itUAL COSTS         0.64      0.64     0.63     0.64     0.63      0.64     0.63
2 PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS         0.57     0.58     0.58     0.57      0.57     0.57     0.57                  Z DEBT/DEBT D EQUITY            0.70      0.68     0.69     0.68     0.68      0.70     0.71
Z DE8T/DEBT 0 EQUITY            0.73     0.69     0.66     0.62      0.60     0.57     0.55                 X SALES/RECEIVABLES              0.20     0.20      0.19     0.18     0.17      0.17     0.17
X SALES/RECEIVABLES             0.22     0.22     0.13     0.20     0.19      0.18     0.17                 X RRTr CC P[ETYrO                0.03     0.03      0,04     0.04     0.04      0.04     0.05
2 RATE OF RETURN                0.03     0.03     0.05     0.07      0.08     0.08     0.08                 DEBT         tNT1oE REi0         2.47     1.91      2.52     2.40     2.29      2.22     2.18
DEBT SERVICE RATIO              1.84     1.86     2.00     1.89      1.86     1.87     1.91                  X CONT. TO INVESTMENT           0.20     0.16      0.19     0.21     0.23      0.18     0.20
X CONT. TO INVESTMENT           0.01     0.19     0.28     0.13      0.24     0.36     0,40



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAkE SECTOR PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
CEDAE
1981          1982           1983           1984           1985          1986            1987
Population -000                      -           9,345          10,105        10,315        10,531          10,752         10,964
Water Connection-000              1,885          2,028           2,130         2,171          2,282          2,368          2,523
% Served Water                       -               0.87            0.84          0.84           0.87           0.88           0.92
Sewerage Connections-000          1,258          1,314           1,349        1,369          1,411          1,480           1,569
% Served Sewerage                    -               0.56            0.53          0.53           0.54           0.55           0.57
Volume Sold Water-MLN.m3            804.70         809.20          868.30        871.70        899.30          919.50         961.00
Volune Prod. Water -MLN.m3         1313.40        1359.30         1365.70       1296.80        1275.60        1251.90        1262.80
% Unacct'd. Water                    38.73          40.47           36.42         32.78          29.50          26.55          23.90
Avg. Required Tariff                 10.42          11.44           12.82         15.38          15.96          17.96          19.13
Avg. Act./Prop. Tariff                9.30          10.48           12.82         15.38          15.96          17.96          19.13
% Operating Ratio                     0.99           0.94            0.88          0.85           0.85           0.83           0.81
Total Employees                  10,931         11,167          12,010        12,122         12,757         13,262         14,116
Emp./000 Connect.                     3.48           3.34            3.45          3.43           3.45           3.45           3.45
% Personnel/Total Costs               0.67           0.69            0.69          0.69           0.69           0.70           0.70
% Debt/Debt & Equity                  0.52           0.42            0.46          0.50           0.54           0.57           0.59
% Sales/Receivables                   0.17           0.15            0.15          0.15           0.15           0.15           0.15
% Rate of Return                      0.00           0.02            0.03          0.04           0.05           0.06           0.06
Debt Service Ratio                     0.92          1.50            2.10          2.00           2.00           1.90           1.80
% Cont. to Investment                 0.06          -0.01            0.18          0.24           0.21           0.24           0.25                m  z
U,
oIz



WATER SUPPLY AND .SF5EEAGE S0rI=B PPWFVT
CORSAN                                 Monitoring  Indicators                                                        CAERD
-- ---                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                                  -hlTORIN6-INDICATORS
1981     1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986      1987                                                         ---   -- ----                19E4      19E5 ---- - -    --
_ - - -   -- - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - --__ _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _           - -  -             - -- - - -    
POPULATION - 000              3390.00  3505.00  3603.00  3692.00  3782.00  3868.00  3955.00                             PDPULATIDN - 000               172.00   194.00   346.00   392.00   447.00   506.00   577.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000        822.00   887.00   947.00  1002.00  1052.00  1097.00  1142.00                             WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         16.70    22.40    39.60    59.00    71.00    82.00    98.00
X SERVED WATER                   0.85      0.89     0.92      0.95     0.97      0.99      1.00                         Z SERVED WATER                   0.51     0.55      0.55     0.72      0.76     0.78     0.82
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000      66.00    79.00    99.00   120.00   142,00   166.00   193.00                             SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000       2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00     2.00    13.00    20.00
X SERVED SEWERAGE                0.07      0.08     0.10      0.01     0.13      0.15     0.17                          Z SERVED SEWERAGE                0.06      0.05     0.03     0.02      0.02     0.12     0.17
VOLUME S0LD UATER -ALN. H3    177.00   193.40   202.96   215.95   225.97   236.03   244,07                              VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. M3       5.00     6.70    11.79    17.91    21.56    24.93    29.32
VOLUME PROD, WATER -MLN. 83   213.00   224.78   235.89   250.99   262.63   274.33   283.67                              VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. 83      9.00    10.89    18.04    26.02    29.95    33,35    37.93
X UNACCT'D. WATER               16.90    13.96    13.96    13.96    13.96    13.96    13.96                             Z UhACCT'. WATER                44.44    38.40    34.31    31.15    28.03    25.23    22.70
AVG. REO'D. TARIFF              22.81    26.02    31.16    33.94    36.86    40.03    42.65                              AV6. REQ'D. TARIFF              15.72    20.70    16.86    18.92    22.71    23.84    23.55
AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF          23.54    27.26    31.16    33.94    36.86    40.03    42.65                             AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF          13.41    15.07    16.86    18.92    22.71    23.84    23.55
Z OPERATING RATIO                0.94      0.89     0.86      0.85     0.84      0.82      0.82                          Z OPERATING RATIO                1.16     1.35     1.00     0.91      0.84     0.82      0.82
TOTAL EMPLOYEES               4297.00  4679.00  4958.00  5210,00  5445.00  5650.00  5861.00                             TOTAL EMPLOYEES                164.00   210.00   272.00   384.00   449.00   563.00   696.00
EMP./000 CONNECT,                4.84      4.84     4.74      4.64     4.56      4,47      4.39                          EMP./000 CONNECT.                6.63     8.61     6.54      6.29     6.15     5.93      5.90
X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS          0.64      0.71     0.71      0.71     0.71      0.71      0.71                         X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS           0.69     0.68     0.61     0.61      0.60     0.60      0.60
7 DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY             0.53      0.56     0.54      0.54     0.54      0.53      0.53                          Z DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY             0.03     0.07     0.45      0.55     0.60     0.67      0.70
2 SALES/RECEIVA8LES              0.13      0.13     0.13      0.13     0.13      0.13     0.13                          X SALES/RECEIVABLES               0.48     0.40     0.35     0.30      0.25     0.20      0.17
X RATE OF RETURN                 0.03      0.06     0.06      0.05     0.05      0.06      0.06                          2 RATE OF RETURN                -0.02    -0.05     0.00      0.01     0.02     0.02      0.02
OEBT SERVICE RATIO               I 88      1.71     1.90      1.94     1.94      1.91      190                           DEEBT SERVICE RATIO              0.00    -0.02    28.05      2.67     2.17     2.08    2.07
Z CONT. TO INVESTMENT           -0.05      0.05     0,10      0,17     0.23      0.26     0.31                           X CONT. TO INVESTMENT            0.0C     0.01    -O.01      0.00     0.05      0.04     0.06
CASAN                                                                                                        DESO
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                                                     MONITORING INDICATORS
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1986     1987                                              1981     192       193       1984     18        1'6       1987
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -  -----  -----  --- - -                                         -----  ----- -  -       -----_ _  __ __ 
POPULATION - 000             1733.00  1902.00  2020.00  2142.00  2269.00  2401.00  2537.00             POPULATION - 000                565.00   592.00   663.00   773.00   B77.00   992.00  1091.00
WATER CONNECTIONS - 000       286000   336.00   385.00   433.00   475.00   511.00   547.00             WATER CONNECTIONS - 000         113.00   124.00   139.00   163.00   186.00   208.00   231.00
W SERVED UATER                  0.59     0.07      0.72     0.77     0.80     0.81     0.82            I SERVED WATER                    0.88      0.92     0.92      0.93      0.93     0.93      0.93
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000     22.00    27.00    31.00    52.00    61.00    08.00   102.00            SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS - 000         6.00     6.00      6.00      6.00    25.00    50.00    75.00
Z SERVED SELERA6E               0.03     0.05     0.06      0.09     0.10     0.14     0.15            X SERED SEWERAGE                  0.03     0.04      0.04      0.03     0.13      0.22      0.30
VOLUME SOLD WATER -MLN. 83     78.48    94.07   104.04   116.70   127.68   137.11   145.98            VOLIE SOLD WTER -HN.  83         24.48    27.65    33.36    39.12    44.64    49.92    55.44
VOLUME PROD. WATER -MLN. M3   110.52   124.92   133.78   145.88   159.00  171.39   102.40              VOLIK  PROD. WATER -MLN. H3    34.97    37.27    43.45    49.46    55.S0    62.40    69.30
U UNACCTID. WATER              28.99    24.70    22.23    20.00    20.00    20.00    20.00            X t#CCT'D. WATER                 30.00    25.81    23.23    20.91    20.00    20.00    20.00
OQ
AVG. 0101D. TARIFF             20.10    21.47    21.80    22.81    23.96    26.15    31.33             MG. REO'D. TARIFF               23.68    26.49    28.23    30.09    28.14    26.64    25.12             M
AVG. ACTIPROF. TARIFF          18.56    19.38    21.80    22.81    23.96    26.15    31.33            AVG. ACT./PROP. TARIFF           24.09    25.96    28.23    30.09    28.14    26.64    25.12            oCx
Z OPERATING RATIO               1.14      1.07     0.87     0.83     0.82     0.79      0.72          X OPERATING RATIO                 0.93      0.99      0.96     0.93      0.93      0.9       0.93        o
TOTAL EMPLOYEES              2274.00  2401.00  2535.00  2048.00  2748.00  2870.00  2962.00            TOTAL EMPLOYEES                 807.00   924.00   957.00  1044.00  1210.00  1384.00  1532.00
EMP./000 CONNECT.               7.38      0.01     6.09     5.46     5.13     4.79      4.56          EMP./000 CONNECT.                 6.77      7.11     6.60      6.18      5.73     5.36      5.01
Z PERSONNEL/TCTAL COSTS         0.00     0.62      0.60     0.59     0.50     0.57      0.50          X PERSONNEL/TOTAL COSTS           0.66     0.69      0.67      0.65      0.66     0.66      0.66
Z DEBT/DEBT & E0tl!TY           0.58     0.59      0.t0     0.00     0.70     0.74      0.75          I DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY              0.29      0.27     0.29      0.28      0.28     0.27      0.26
Z SALES.REC'  -j                0.21     0.21      0.20     0.19     0.18     0.17      0.17    X        SALES/RECEIVA8LES              0.18     0.18      0.17      0.17     0.17      0.17      0.17
O RATE OF RETURN               -0.03    -0.02      0.03     0,04     0.05     0.05      0.00          Z RATE OF RETURN                  0.03     0.00      0.01      O.OI     0.01      0.01      0.01
DEBT SERVICE RATIO              0.22     0.30      2.18     1.91     1.80      1.81     1.63         DEBT SERVICE RATIO                4.56      7.11      8,70     5.37      4.93      4.77      5.01
l CONT. TO INVESTMENT          -0.15    -0.0t      0.10     0.09     0.09     0.09      0.15          X CONT. TO IINESTIENT             0.03     0.17      0.15      0.16     0.19      0.31      0.37



WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SEUTOR PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
SAEP
1981          1982          1983          1984          1985         1986            19&7
PoVulation -OCO                15,129        15,697         16,282       16,899         17,519        18,195        18,896
Water Conmection-OCO            2,868         3,125          3,273        3,428          3,591         3,737         3,918
% Served Water                      0.86          0.90           0.90)        0.91           0.92          0.92          0.93
Sewerage Connections-OCO        1,510         1,651          1,737        1,829          1,922         2,028         2,136
% Served Sewerage                   0.45          0.47           0.48         0.49          0.49           0.50          0.51
Volume Sold Water-MN.m3          1067.00       1141.90        1219.10       1278.50       1341.90       14C9.50       1489.50
Volume Prod. Water -MLNN.n?      1443.00       1533.50        1582.87      1612.04        1677.35       1761.&0       1861 .8
% Unacot'd. Water                  26.06         25.54          22.98        20.69          20.00         20.00         20.00
Avg. Required Tariff               19.53         22.40          24.20        24.93          27.22         29.20         30.93
Avg. Act./Prop. Tariff             19.85         22.41          24.20        24.93         27.22          29.20         30-93                         mx
% Operating Ratio                   0.83          0.75           0.72         0.74          0.73           0.72          0.71
Total Employees                20,726        21,368         22,151       22,864        23,602         23,474        25,383
Erp.//OCXO Connect.                 4.74          4.47           4.42         4.35          4.28           4.25          4.19
% Personnel/Total Costa             0.63          0.64           0.64         0.64          0.64           0.63          0.63
% Debt/Debt & Equity                0.67          0.66           0.65         0.66          0.65           0.65          0.74
% Sales/Receivables                 0.25          0.25           0.23         0.21          0.19           0.18          0.17
I Rate of Return                    0.05          0.05           0.06         0.06          0.06           0.06          0.06
Debt Service Ratio                  1.10          1.40           1.50         1.70           1.70          1.70          1.60
% Cont. to Investnent               0.10          0.01           0.12         0.19          0.24           0.19          0.31
e>>
(D M
0 x>



- 79 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Economic and Social Analysis
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Marginal Cost Calculations
1.         The sample of investment projects analyzed represents about 40%
of total project costs and was selected from studies (RTPs) that were
ready at appraisal. The sample covers about 13 states and reflects project
types, investment weights, and regional differences expected to prevail in
future investments under the project. No sewerage subprojects from capital
cities were included in the sample because RTPs for those subprojects were
unavailable at appraisal.  Subprojects in capital cities are, however, ex-
pected to yield similar results to those in large cities. Overall invest-
ments for sewerage in capital cities are expected to be very small.  Eco-
nomic rates of return (ERR) have been calcilated for water, sewerage, and
water and sewerage for subprojects consolic&ted on the basis of rommu.nity
size (capital, large and medium cities, and sma 1 c)mmunit3, (At-achment.,
1-5).   ERRs were also calculated for individual subprojects  (details in
project files).  The ERR was estimated for consolidated water and sewerage
investments in large and medium cities at present and covenanted tariffs,
and for the project as a whole.   The results and weighted averages are
shown in Table 5.1.  The marginal cost for the investments has been esti-
mated as the average long term incremental cost of the project investment
and complementary investments.  The incremental values of the consolidated
samples are summarized in Table 5.2, and further details are given in this
Annex and the Project File. The analysis of the marginal cost and ERR have
been estimated separately for individual project investments in the sample
for consolidated projects based on community types and for the consolidated
samples of water supply, sewerage, and water and sewerage investments.
2           Revenues generated by the sample projects have been used as a
proxv for economic benefits.   Present tariffs used in the anlaysis were
those -f July 1982.  Covenanted tariffs (levels of tariffs required by the
financial covenant) were expressed in July 1982 prices.  Although the same
tariff structure is used for all cities within a SWC, the average tariff is
always higher in the capital and large cities because of the effect on the
average of industrial and commercial users, and of the higher proportion of
large residential users who purchase water at excess consumption charges (2
to 2.5 times than for minimum consumption).   In the samples analyzed, the



- 80 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
average tariffs in medium cities appear higher than those in large and
capital cities.   This may be explained by the effect of high tariffs in
some states from which the medium cities samples were selected. Severage
charges for the most part are between 80-100% of water tariffs.
3.            Traditionally, ERRs are not calculated for sewerage projects
alone since charges are related to the volume of water used, and it is not
possible for consumers to indicate their willingness to pay for each ser-
vice independently, and because a large proportion of the population lacks
sewerage services.  Furthermore, there are no rates for sewage treatment.
The reason why ERR calculations for sewerage alone are presented here is
that it was possible to separate revenue receipts for sewerage.   The re-
suits severely underestimate benefits.   All investments are expressed in
July 1982 UPC and include engineering and physical contingencies. Foreign
exchange has been shadow priced at 1.15 times the official rate of ex-
change.   The labor shadow price was set at 0.9 times the average wagee
Project investments, as well as complementary investments to be made by the
SWCs during and after project execution, have been included in the analy-
sis.  Complementary investments are mainly house connections, which would
be largely financed by urban developers, contributions to construction (BNH
urban poverty housing programs) and some connection fees. Treated water in
many cities will be substituted for water being provided without or with
partial treatment.
Selection Criteria
4.           The justification of each individual subproject will be made
using either the long-run average incremental cost (marginal cost) calcu-
lated on the basis of the investment program of the project and its comple-
mentary works, or the internal financial rate of return (IFR) (Annex 5).
Projects in which the present tariff or that to be implemented in the near
future exceeds 75% of the marginal cost or those with an IFR of 5% I/ or
more would be approved.   Projects not meeting these criteria will be de-
signed to standards affordable to the population. Such projects would also
only be approved if their impact on the incidence of poverty or health im-
provement would be substantial and if there is evidence that such projects
could contribute to the overall economic growth of the areas to be served.
The use of marginal cost simplifies project selection, provides useful in-
sights of cost structures, and is easy for policy makers to understand. On
the other hand, the use of the IFR also provides sector institutions addi-
tional flexibility to approve projects that have satisfactory returns on
investment subject to the preparation of financial analyses of the projects
and their effects on the SWCs based on projected cash flows.   For small
communities, investment per capita costs would be used as the selection
1/ 60% for sewerage, or water supply projects in cities with less than
RN, nnn .           (-  -r  m  1 / TV 8



- 81 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 3
criterion and would be applied to subprojects or groups of subprojects car-
ried out in such communities.   Marginal costs will give very useful sta-
tistics on per capita investment costs, operating expenses and the cities
where tariff surcharges and intensive metering should be applied.
Economic Rate of Return including Consumer Surplus
5.        The ERRs, whether at present or covenanted tariffs measure only a
part of a project's benefits. The results of the EER can get closer to the
full economic return if the consumer surplus is included.   The consumer
surplus can be estimated if the price elasticity is known.   Two points on
the demand curve are known: the average charges (Y1) and consumption (X1),
and the price paid by urban poor to water vendors (YO) for very small
amount of water (XO).  An exponential function of the form Y=Ce-bx can be
fitted between these points. The ratio (k) between the social and economic
benefits perceived by the users and the ERR will be the area below this
function divided by the benefits estimated by the traditional ERR (X1, mul-
tiplied by Y1). The integration of Y= Ce-bx between Xo and X1 provides the
Area A=(X0-X1) (YO-Y1)/ln(YI/YO). The project benefits, including consumer
surplus, are then K times higher than those measured by the ERR.
K = (Y1-YO)/(Y1ln(Y1/YO) = (l-YO/YL)/ln(Y1/YO)
6.         Urban poor purchase small amounts of water (20 liters per capita
per day or about 2-3 m3 per family per month) at prices 4 to 6 times the
average price for piped water. For a ratio of Yo to Y1 of 4, k = 2.20, and
the consumer surplus can be estimated as the ERR at a tariff equal to 2.2
times the average tariff.   The weighted average rate of return for water
supply in the capital cities sample including the estimated consumer sur-
plus, is included in Table 5.1.
Urban Poverty
7.         The levels of urban poverty, defined as families earning a mone-
tary income of three regional minimum salaries or less, were estimated by
the appraisal team (Annex 16) using the information available from the 1980
census results and other previous household surveys conducted by the IBGE.
The number of urban poor presently served is generally low because the
overall service levels are low (for water supply, 69%) and persons with
higher income usually receive piped water first.   The analysis of incre-
mental population for the sample is in the project file and for the project
as a whole, in Annex 16.  The impact on poverty and affordability of pro-
ject services is also detailed in Annex 16.



-82 -
ANNEX 15
ATTACHMENT 1
VATER BLPLY I S_E        SECTR PRECT
ATER SEPLY CSIO ATIS6
(at Prnsnt Tariff Rate)
(RTI '000 a of Detoar i92)
rE4R           1983        1984       1985        1986        1987        19__        1989       1996        1991        1972        193        1994        1995        1986        1797       1998
CAPITAL 1 816 CITIES
Total Costs                 1475.48     1832.60     922.10      197,86      171.87     165.38      360.77      193.48     1432.08     250.58      291.12      291.31      213.34     21B.49     1557.48     1564.79
Total RewerKes                 0.00      20.83      794.28      190.33     265.96      349.61      435.43      529.70      619.02     694.62      803.27      914.55     1000.44     1064.43    1135.70     1221.08
met Benefits               -1475.48   -1811.77    -127.83        -7,53       94.09     184.23       74.66      336.22    -813.06      444.04      512,16      623.24      787.10     845.94    -421.78    -343.71
8ED0 CITIES I WATER DIST
Total Costs                 1714.62     1011.78     486.19      243,39      130.67     141.17      145.51      197.30      179.28     199.9       186.29      168.55      168.24      167.01     le7.56      150.96
Total Reveris                 72.20       76.46     149,88      196,89      230.03     255.75      284.20      313.51      341.62      372.30     3n.932      420.51      435.41     451.64      468.73      481.11
met Benefits               -1642.41     -93732     -336.31      -46.51       9936       114.59     138.70      116.21      162.35      177.31     213.03      251.97      267.17      284.63     281.17      334.15
TOTAL CITIES
Total Costs                 3110.09    2693,45     1292.96      421.40     285.53      290.66      489.91      373.98     1594.57     433.77      460.62      443.06      364.79     368.71     1728.24     1698.96
Total Reyenes                 72.20      87.28      909.13      337,19      444.35     552.12      664.77      786.92      904.36    1010.63     1146.31     1278.78     1379.56     1459.79    1548,14    1645.91
Met Benfits                -3037,89   -2i60.17     -383.83      -84.21      158.82     261.45      174.86      412.94    -690,21      576.85      685.69      835.72     1014.77     1091.07    -180.09      -53.06
MATER SPPcY TOTAL
(Cilies,3 I.Com,
Total Costs                 3385.09     205247     1414.38      447,34      308.63     312.64      512.36      396.07     1617.45     456.66      483.50      465.94      387.67     391.60     1751.12     1721,5
Total Reveores                72.20      113.59     966.45      403.52      512.29     621.67      735.93      859.51      976.95     1083.21    1218.94     1351.36     1452.15     1532.37    1620.73     1718.49
Net Benefits               -3312.89   -2738.80    -453.93       -43,83      203.67     309.03      223.57      462.64    -640.51      626.55      735.z4      885.42     1064.48     1140.78    -130,39       -3.36
YEAR           1m99        2000       2001        2002        2003        2004       2005        2006   2007-2015
CAPITAL 1 110 CITIES                                                                                                               a)        At covenanted  tariffs  (see Table  5-1)                           IO.S
Total Costs                  266.62     271.74      275.22      284.56      291.48     292.57      296.94      301.44      264.60  Sensitivity  to:
Total Reuns                 1485.45     1557.68    1631.18    1703.95      1792.38    1076.94     1967.65    20863.05    2061.05
Met Benefits                1218.83     1285.94    1355.96     1419.39     1580.90     1584.37    1670.71     1761.61     1798.45  b)        10%  increase  in Investment                                      G.2
c)       100  increase  In  Investment and 100
NED. CITIES I WATER DIST                                                                                                                        lower benefits                                                 7.1
________________________                                                                                                           d)        Including  estImated  consumer surplus
Total Costs                  153.24     151.96      153.16      154.62     140.39      140.39      140.39      148.39      148,39              with  100  in-rease  in  Investment and
Total Revenoes               487.57     492.92      58O.B4      507,04     507,04      507.04      507.04      507.04      507.04              Operating  Costs and Voline Sold
Met Benefits                 334.33     340.96      347.68      352.42     366.66      366.66      366.66      366.66      366.66              reduced  by ioo  (for capital cies
aggregate)                                                    26.5
TOTAL CITIES                                                                                                                       a)        TwO year delay  in  Benefits                                     7.3
f)       0 weight or. water supply  subprosects
Total CaSts                  403,06     406.91      411.58      422.39      415,07     416.16      420.54      425.03      388.19            reviewed                                                       100
Total Reonues               1916.73     1994.32    2075.74     2154.70    2243.14     2327.69     2418.41     2513.61     2513.81
Met Benefits                1513.67     1587.41    1664.15     1732,32     1828.06    1911.53     1997.87     2088.78     2125.62
MATER .WPLY TOTAL
)Cities,Sml.Coe,                                                                                                                                         SUM0MARY OF MARGINAL COSTS ANALYSIS  -
Total Costs                  425.94     429.79      434.47      445.27     437.96      439.05      443.42      447.91      411.07                               EQUIVALENT VALUES FOR 1983
Total Reseeues              198.32     2066.90    2148.32    2227.29       2315.72    2400.2B     2491.00     2586.39     2SB6.39
Met Benefits                1563.37     1637.11    1713.86     1782.02     1877.77    1961.23     2047.58     2138.4b     2175.32             Discount Rate - 310                      Project Life - 33 years
-___ - -----                       ___________--   -----                      --------- ---------   a)              PV  of Investments                                           8,Oq4.8
b)       PV of Operating  and Maintenance  Costs                      1,185.7
c)       PV of Other Revenues                                           421.2
d)       PV of Volume Sold                                         370,243.1
e)       Marginal Cost ORTN/m3                                             0.0239
f)       Average Tariff (ORTN!/13)                                         0.0220
tlET PRESEYT 9UN1E AT 11.07  66.                                                                                                   g)        0 Tariff/Marginal Cost                      3                    92
INTEFML RATE OF 7ETUR =   11.1                                                                                                     h)       Equivalent Annual Pop. Served (10 )                            691.3
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 11.Ol - -1253.                                                                                                i)        Investment per Person Served  (ORTN)                             11.7
11TERML RATE OF RETUN =   6.11                                                                                                     j)        Equivalent Arnual Connections                                  137 .4
MET PRESENT 9ALUE AT 11.01   -1181.                                                                                                k)        Investment per Conn. Served                                      58.8
INTERAL RATE OF RETUPt =   9.4l
MET PRESENT  ALUE AT 11.01 = -1282.
INMERtAL RATE OF ETURN =   9.37



- 83 -
ANN7EX 
aZIL
WATER 199.0I SE8f SECTO PWICT
NIR SUIPtY CMStIh3T105
fst Canwtid Tariff Rat")
()TN 'X00 n of Octtbr I92)
am00           1983        1984        1985       1986        1987       1988        1989        199         19         1992        1993        I994       1            996        197         1998
CArITAL i 810 CITIES
Total Casts                 1475.48    1832.60      922.10      197786     171 87      165.38      360.77      193.48    1432.08      250.58      291.12     291.31      213.34      218.49    1557.48     1560,7)
Total Reve-s                   0.00      24.80      803.05      221.53     306.71      401.13      497.80      604.21     704.10      792.80      913.90    1041.85     1140.84    1205.56      1276.17    1360.81
Net 8e4.fsts               -1475.48    -1807,.0    -119.05       23.67     134.84      235.74      137,03      410,73    -727.99        2. 22     622.78     750.54      927.49      987.07    -281.30     -203.n9
NED. CITIES I WATER DIST
Total Costs                 1714.62    1013.78      486.19      243.39     130.67      141.17      145.51     197.30      179.28      19.99       186.29     168055      168.24      167.01      187.56     150.96
Total Rrs                     72.20      81.93      167,13      218.62     256.85      286.87      317.35      351.20     382.59      416.47      446.67     470.12      487.53      506.64     526.41      541.23
Net Beseflts               -1642.41    -931.86    -319.06       -24,77     126.18      145.70      171.84      153.89     203.31      216.48      260.37     301.57      319.29      339.63     038.86      390.26
TOTAL CITIES
Total Costs                 3110.09    2693.45    1292.96      421.40      285.53      20.66       489.91     373.98     1594,57      433.77     U60.62      443.06      364.79      368.71     1728.24    1690.96
Total Reveaes                 72.20      95.26      930.07      383.90     504.42      627.02      752.33     890.f9    1022.23      1144.81     1296.11    14U7.51     1563.91     1647,74    1738.13     1837.58
Net ePfits                -3037.89   -2598.IB    -362.89       -37.50      218.90      336.35      262.42     516.97    -572.34       711.04      835.49    1004.46     1199.13     1279.03       9.09      138.60
WATER SIIPPLY TOTAL
(Co ltes .SI.Coe
Total Costs                 3385.09    2852.47     1414.38      447.34     500.63      312.64      512.36     396.87     1617.45      456.66     483.50      465.94      387.67      391.60     1751.12    1721.R5
Total Reveses                 72.20     125.62      989.07      459.05     582.46      706.89      83404      974.30     1105.58     1228.16     1375.46    1530.86     1647.26     1731,09     1821.48    1920.93
Net  aef-?sts              -3312.89   -2726.85    -425.31        11.70     273.83      394.25      321.68     577.43    -511.87       771.50      895.96    1064.92     1259.59     1339.50      70.36      199.08
RATE 0F RETURN ANALYSIS
YEAR          I19          2000       2001        2002        2003       2004        2005        2006   207'7-215
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~ -~~~- ~    At. pr'soLt t-r                    5      S)1o
CAPITAL . b20 CITIES                                                                                                               Oooait.;Cty  to:
Ttal Costs                   266.62     211,74      275.22     284.56      291.48      292.57      206.94     301.44      264.60   b)       10   lncreae?    i. - 7vestmen.t                              9.4 4
Total Ro s                  1622.76    1094.36     1767.20     1839.31    1926.97     2010.75     2100.65    2195.19     2195.19   c)       1CE  Increase  ir. toost-oot and  10l
,3t Betflts                 1356.14    1422.62    1491.98      1554.75    1635.48     1718.18     1803.71    1893.76     1930.60               lower benefits                                             8.1
4)       two year  delay in Peneflta                                    .
NED. CITIES 8 WATER DIST                                                                                                           a)            - yeIght 0   awte,r aupply aubprojeotl
------------------------                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eviewed                              100
Total Costs                  153.24     151.96      153.16      154.62     140.39      140.39      140.39     140.39      140.39
Total Resss                  548.18     554.00      561.44      568.23     568.23      568.23      568.23     568.23      560.23
Wet Bewfits                  394.94     402.04      409.29      413.61     427,85      427.05      427.85     427.85      427,85
TOTAL CITIES
Total Costs                  403.06     406.91      411,58     422.09      415.07      416.16      420.54     425.03      3M.19
Total Re s                  2106.48    2183.90     2264.18     2343.09    2430.74     2514.52    2604.43     2698.97     2698.97                            SU?IYARY OF MFARGINAL COSTS ANALYSIS
Wet kfielts                 1703.42    1776,99     1852.60     1920.70    2015.67     289.36      2183.89    2273.94     2310.78
EQUIVALENT VALUES FOR 1773
WATER SUP91.Y TOTAL
-- - --- - ----- - --                                                                                                                         Diocount Rats  = 11i                          Project Life = 33 years
(Citiess 'Se1. Coma,
Total Costs                  425.94     429.79      434.47      445.27     437.90      439.05      443.42     447.91      411.07   a)       PV of Investments                                        8 074.8
Total Rcewa s               2189.83    2267.25    2347.53      2426.44    2514.09     2597.87     2687.78    2782.32     272.72   b)         PV of O-rat-ag  and Kialntna...            Clots        1, 75.7
WIt 1Btfts                  1763.89    1837.46     1913.07     1981,17    2076.13     2158.83     2244.36    2334.41     2371.25   o)       PV of Other Re-eoass                                        421.2
_______                  --- ______ _)   PV of Velune Sold                                                                                                              370,243.1
------- ----- -- -- --~ ~ ~ ~ --~~~~ ---- -----a)                              Marginal Coat ORTN/M3                                        0.0237
f)       1983  Tariff ~0RTN/FM3                                        0.0252
g)       0 Tariff/M-rginal Coot                                     105
h)       Equivtaent Annual Pop. S aerv                              691.3
i)       C-s-t..nt per Person  STrved                                11.7
NET  q'T VMUE Al 11.01  66~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                            j~)      Equlvafent  Anonal Con..ertions                             13ot4
NE1  y.J  VAXLUE 04112 lI.Ot - .                                                                                                   k)        Caveotwent per Coon. Ser-ed                                 358.4
INTERNAL RATE OF RETUN =  12.40
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 11.O1   -959.
INTERWL RATE OF RETURN z   7.4t
NET PRES9NT VALUE AT 11.0t  -343.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   10.5
NET PRESENT VALUE AT lI.32 = -369.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   10.5S



AhNA 3.M3
SSIEM CMTIU
(at Pinset Tariff tets)
(am 'noo - of k-. 191)
YEAR              1903         1994          098           1996         199           1999          199           1MO          1991          192           193          1944          199           1996          1997         199
MEDIUM9 CITIES
Total' Costs                      247.60        41.50        147.15        129462        89,19         79.39         31.49         95,11        93.64         36.29         99.54        040.02        66.61        100.42        97.13         92.87
Total Reasns                        0.00         13.10      , 24.60         33.00        35.50         40.20         42. 40        42.60        56.90         59,1LO        61,40        63.60         68.90         71.20         89.60        92.60
(Rot Be..sTots                   -267.00       -30.40       '140,55        -96.62       -53.69        '39.61         10.91        '49.51       -36.84         22.82        137.34        25.54          2.29        '29,22         -7.53         0.27
BITG CITIES
Total Costs                      1T16.58      2456.50       1607.91        79. 71      1024.93       1064,54       2160.73      2251.23        99.34         386,6.3      996.02        M9. 73        332,40        336,77       484.30        341.65
Total Ret,-os                       0 .00      711.92        731.71        734.13       771.09       1295,49       1164.42       969.43       1004.31       1336,46       999.75       1125.57       1149.13       1203,22      1219.47       1234.68
Set Sotlrts                    -1716,58      -1744.60       -076.20        -58.58      -250.74        220,96       -996.30     -1291.90        109.23        649.02        103.73       360.94        860.73        966,45       735.17        092.00
SEWER02E TOTAL
Total Cost;                    1.904.10       2500.00       1775.06        922.34      1114.02       1144.42      2192,22       2346,34        979,72        422.91        994.56       933.75        404.31        439.19       501.43        4.14.72
Total Se--se                        0.00       670.76        803.23       070,66        804.88        924.15       1390.70      1270.51       I063.23       1099.20      1127.05       1207.10       1260.07      1293,90       1309.27       1327.45
Net B-rrots                    -19034.10     -1823.24       -971.63        -51.68      -309.15       -220.37       -881.51     -1375.83         94.51        676.38        129.48       433.35       926.5          8 44,71      727.84        992.93
RATE 0F 815379 ANALYTSIS
TESS              1999         21000        21001          2002          2003         2004          2005          2006          2007   23008-2027
--------            --                                      ----~---                                                                                                 a       tcvoat4 trfs (e                            al       . 
'otal Cos.ts                       94.62        05.30         86,06         67.86        08.06         49.16         42.54         42.62        42.76         37.76 b)   10%   increase  in  Ino-etsent                                                    6.2
Totl -e-ns                     921.90        98.23        116.60       114.90        121.30        126.70        132.00       032.30        132.60        132.60 c)   10%  increase.  in  Investen.t  sAn  10%
Not B-nsito                        50.20         12.82        20.54         27.04         33.24        77.54         89.44         89,64        89,84         94,.84           low-r  benefits                                                             4.9
d)   Dec  year  delay  in  Benefits                                                   5.0
0511 CTIES                                                                                                                                                           .)            .ight  on  aster  sopyoly  ssobpro)scts
------------                                                                                                                       ... J. ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~evssd                                     100
Total Costs                      661.63        345.23        365.38       347.07        347.83        349.23        247.43       267. 43       267.43        267.43
Total Ren-o-                     1243.04      1242.03       1261.11       1277.43      1229.32       1297.40       1299.50      1290.58       129B.75       129. 75
Nst R-fitot                       002.22       894.01        892.73        930.37       931.49        940,16       1030.07       1335.15      1031.32       1031.32
SEWERAG0 TOTAL
Total' Costs                      706.24       430.61        051.44        434.93       435.89        398,39        309,99       310.39        310,19        302.19
Total R--sos                    1379.90       1340.32       1307.86      1785.21.      1407.90       1424.16       1429,61      1430.08       1438.35       1431.35                        SUMMAY  OF  KALRI80NAI, COSTS  AJI62LYOSI -
Not Be-fits                       633.65       909.71        906.42        950.28       972.31       1022.76       1119.62     1.120.79       1120.16       1126.16
------  -----  -----  -----  -----  -     --  ----- - - - ------                                  -               -- ---- -- - --                                    EQOCVALE9T VALUES FOR 1.983
Discount Rate - Il%                             Project Life   45 year
)   VP  of  Invesosnts   (103)                                              9,693.1
NET P9E00N7 VALUE AT 11.00   -414.                                                                                                                                   6)   Pt of  Operating  and  Maintenance-  Costs  (103)                          1,514.9
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN          4,30                                                                                                                                c)   Pt  of  Other  Revenues  (103)                                             2,506.1
NET PRESENT VALUE 0T111,00   -2016.                                                                                                                                  6)   P9  of  Volume  so14  (1.02)                                            956,501.4
24TE9NAL RATS DS RSTSt9N .      7.0 e%)   Marginal  Cost  ORYTN/R3                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0155
NET PRESENT VAoLUE 09 11.03   -2355.                                                                                                                                 f)   Average  Tariff  (00ThF/X3)                                                      0.0203
10T09NAL ST'S OF 9T71N9=    7.40                                                                                                                                     g)   6  Tariff/Marginal. Cost                                                      131
h)   Fquivalent  Annul  Pop. Serred  (103)                                        781.2
0)   Inveetment  per  Person  Served                                                12.4
.1)  Rqunl-est Annul Csen*ctisn                                                  115.5
k.)   Imn,.stuent  par  Cona. Served                                                83.9



- 85 -
ANM  15
ATTACUINT 4
JRAZIL
OATER ItALY I SE0 E SECTOR PROJECT
SEIERASE CMSIDAT10I1
lat Cramtet Tarif Rtes)
(IRTN '000 as Df October 1982)
YEAR            1903        1984        1905        1986        1987       1988         1989        1O        1991         1992         1973       1994        0995        1996        1997        1998
MED Un CITIES
Total Costs                  267.60        43.50     167.15      129.62       09.19       79.88       31.49       95.11       93.64       36.28       98.54       40.02       66.1        100.42      97.13       92.E7
Total Re.enues                 0.00       23.14       43.96       51.00       53.78       59.09       61.48       63.97       77.21       79.73       82.25      132.07       142.31     152.57      100.51      191.67
Net Beoerfts                -267.60      -15.36     -123.19      -78.62      -35.41      -20.79       29,-9      -31.14      -16.43       43.45      -16.29       92.05       75.70       52.15       83.38       9E0
011 CITIES
Total Costs                  1716.58    2456.50     1607.91      792.71      1024.83     1064.54    2160.73     2251.23       085.08     386.63      896.02      793.73      337.40      338.77      484.30      341.65
Total Re-e,.es                 0.00      766.98      798.12      925.74      070.08      1403.74     1296.47     1110.12     1152.10     1191.01    1159.27     1343.42     1366.74     1375.69     1392.00     1408.45
let Benefito               -1716.58    -1609.52     -809.73       33.02     -154.76      339.21     -864.25    -1141.10      267.01      804.38      263.25      549.69     1029.34     1036.92      97.71      1066.80
SEtERAGE TOTAL
Total losts                  1904.18    2500.00     1775.06      922.34     1114.02      1144.42    2192,22     2346.34      978.72      422.91      994.56      833.75      404.01      439.19      581.43      434.52
Total Reoenues                 0.00      795.13      842.10      076.73      923.86      1462.83     1357.96    1174.09     1229.31      1270.74    1241.52     1475.49     1509.05     1528.26     1572.51     1600.11
Net Bese9ots               -1974,18    -1704.07     -932.93      -45.60    -190.16       318.41     -834,26    -1172.24      250.59      047.03      246. 96     641.74     1005.04     1089.07      991.09     1165.59
RATE OF RETURN  ANALYSIS
TEAR           1999        2000        2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007   2000-2027
ah       At present tariffs  (see Table 5.1)                             7.4
MEDIUM ^ITIEB
9E2Ils9 - -  - -Tl --                                                                                                                            S e n s i t i v i t y   t o o
Total Cost;                   44.62       05.30       86.06       07.86       08.06       49.16       42.56       42.66       42.76       37.76
Total Revenues               201.95      212.21      220.45      244.71      261.10      208.57      294.08      m25.20       295.53      295,53 b)      101  increase  in  Investment                                    8.2
Net BeneT:ts                  157.33      126.B3      142.39      156.05      173.04      239.41      752.32      252.54      252.77      257.77 c)       LOt increase  in- Inverstment and  101
lower benefits                                               6.9
BIG cIrES                                                                                                                                        d)       twIo year delay  in  Benefits                                   7.5
._-- -------                                                                                                                                 e)       '1 weight on  water supply  subprojects
rTtal Costi                  661.63      345.23      365.30      347.07      347.13      349.23      267.43      267.43      267.43      267.43              reviewsd                                                   lOO
Total Reseoues               1410.61     1420.70     1430.07     1457.02     1459.89     1400.90     1481.7     1481.87     1401.87     1481.87
Net Benefts                  756.99      1003.55     1073.49     1109.96     1112.06     1131.75     1214.44     1214.44     1214.44     1214.44
SEWERAiE TOTAL
Total Costs                  706.24      430.61      451.44      434.93      435.09      398.39      309,99       310.09      310,19      305.19
Total Roenses               1620.56     1640.99     1667.32     1701.73     1720.99     1769.55      1776.75     1777.07     1777.40     1777.40
Net Renefots                  914.32     1210.30     1215.07     1266.01     1285.10    1371.15      1466,76     1466.97     1467.21     1472.21                      SU8YT OF  ARGITNAL COSTS ANALYSIS
---------------- -------- ----------------                       ___             E__                        _QUIVALENTT YALUE E -OR 1983
Discount Rate - 11%                   Project Lila  - 45 years
NET PRESENT BLIE AT 11.00   13.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN     11.2Z                                                                                                               a)        PP  of IOperstients                                       9 693.1
NET PRESENT YkLUE AT I.0    -957.                                                                                                               b)       PV of Opteratirg ae      d veine  2t,ce Costs               1516.5
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   9.41                                                                                                                6)       PP of Otuer Reveuo         s                               55,58601
MET PRESENT NkKAL!RT 11.01 *-94U.                                                                                                               d)       PV of Volume Sold                                        556,501.6
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =    9.6Z                                                                                                               e)       Marginal Cost ORT/M3                                             0.0155
f)       Avenge  1983 Tariff (ORTN/M3)                                    0.0230
g)       % Tariff/Marginal Cost                                        148
h)       Equivalent Annual Pop. Sored                                  781.2
i)       Investment per Person  Sarved                                  12.4
i)       Fquivalent Annual Connections                                 115.5
ka)      Investment per Coon. Sansd                                     83.9



-86 -                                                               ANNEX iS
ATTACHMENT 5
R'AZIL
WATER SUFPLY I SE6E8AE SECTDR LIAt PROJECT
9811L4U I B13 CITIES AOREEIATION
(at Present I Coevemnted Tariff Rates;
1DRTN '000 as of October 1982)
TEAR            1        2       3        4        5        6        7       8        9       10       11       12      13       14       15       16       17      18       19       20       2:       22       22       24
PRESENT TARIFF RATES
'otal Costs                3852.17 3467.34 2247.91 1162.39 1244.54 1289.44 2518.45 2554.12 1175.20  642.10 1202.66 1021.54  594.16  630.93  793.71  610.22  984.22  607.31  629.33  6:4.28  61'.2:  '6Z.':I'Z.::  4''.::
Total Revenues               72.20  764.04  945.26 1086.72 1058.72 1211.50 1711.55 1629.03 1456.95 1534.70 1592.39 1771.96 1785.98 1832.58 1875.04 1905.61 1924.51 1930.28 1965.74 19S9.30 201,.?7  202Z.24 2^ZZ.C7  2C-34.
Net Benetits              -3779.97-2703.30-1302.65   -75.68 -185.91  -77.94 -806.91 -925.29  21.726  892.60  389.73  750.42 1191.83 1201.65 1081.33 1295.39 1040.30 1322.98 1336.41 1375.02 1410.97  1464.'Z 1''E.17 :'59.761
CCvENANTED TARIFF RATES
Total Costs               3052.17 3467.34 2247.91 1162.39 1244.54 1289.44 2518.45 2554.32 1175.20  642.10 1202.66 1021.54  594.16  630.93  793.72  610.22  884.22  607.31  629.33  614.28  601.21  563.51   .,'5..  175.':
Total Reoe, .es              72.20  890.39 1001.50  1121.90 1211.89 1090.36 1722.09 1582.23 167.43 17265.09 1775.21 2050.44 2168.74 2154.94 2210.27 2261.26 2288.69 2114,93 2348.71 2389.91 2409.17247.72                           2424
Net Dene!"ns              -0779.97-2576,95-1246.41  -40.49  -32.64  500.87 -796.37 -972.08  502.20 1122.98  572.55 1029.90 1514.58 1523.91 01421.15 1651.17 :464.42 11717.625 1719.317, 1775.62 1826.1 on :94.21 176-9.0217.1
RATE  OF RETllRN  ANALYSIS  AT  COVERZANTED  TARIFFS                                           RATE  OF RETURIN  ANALYSTS  AT  PRESENT  TARIFFS
YEAR           25   26-33   34-45
------ -------------------------------------          a)         At present  tariffs  (see  Table  5.2)                               7.3         a)         At covenantad  tariffs  (see  Table 5.1)                              9.3
PRESENT TARIFF RATES                                  Sensitivity  to:                                                                            Sensitivity  to:
Tcta! losts                 475.31  470.31  305.19  b)           10i   increase  in  Investment                                       8.0         b)         10%  increase  in  Investment                                         6.1
Tctal Revenues             2035.44 2035.44 1431,35               19   increase  in  Investment  and  io%                                         c)         10%  i-reas.  in  I.v..tm.ht and  105
Net Berefits               1560.12 1565.12 1126.16                  lower benefits                                                     6.8                      lower benefits                                                     4.8
COVEN4NTED TARTFF RATE'                               d)         two  year delay  in  Benefits                                        7.3         6)         two  year  delay  in    B .Ren.efit s                                 7.3
a)        %  weight  on  subprojecte  analyzed                               100            e)        8weight  on  supply  subprojects  analysed                         100
Tota! Costs                 475.31  470.31  305.19
Total Re,eo'ues            2465.58 2465.50 :777.40
Net Benef:ts               1990.2' 1975.27 1472.2:
SUMMARY OF MARGINAL COSTS ANALYSIS                                                                SUMMARY OF MARGINAL COSTS ANALYSIS
NET PRESENT vALUE AT 11.0%   -3477.                                                  EQUIVALENT  VALUES  FOR  1983                                                                   EQUIVALENT  VALUES  FOR  1983
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN        7.3Y
NET PRESENT VALE 97 11.01   -1672. YDiecount Rate -  11%                                                    Project Life  - 45 years                           Discount Rate  - 119.                              Project Life  -  45  years
INTERNAL R908 OP RETURN        9,3Z
a)        PV  of Investments                                            12,982.5           a)         PV  of  Investments                                           12,9B2.5
4)        PV of Operating and Maintenance Costs                           1,953.1          b)         PV of Operating and Maintenance Costs                           1,953-1
c)        PV  of Other Revenues                                           2,784.8          o)         PV  of Other Revenues                                           2,784.8
d)        PV  of Volume  Sold                                          682,631.3           d)         PV  of Volume  Sold                                          682,631.3
a)        Marginal  Cost ORTN/M3                                                0.0155   a)           Marginal  Cost  ORTN4/M3                                              0.0155
f)        Average  1983  Tariff  (ORTN/M3)                                      0.0230   f)           Av-rage  1983  Tariff  (ORTN/M3)                                     0.0230
g)        % Tariff/Marginal  Cost                                            148           g)         %  Tariff/Marginal  Cost                                           131
h)        Equivalent  Annual Pop.  Served                                 1,055.4          h)         Equivalent Annual  Pop. Served                                  1,055.4
i)        Investment  per Person  Served                                      12.3         i)         Investment  per Person  Served                                      12.3
j)        Equivalent  Anrual Connections                                     168.7         j)         Equivalent Annual  Connections                                     168.7
k)        Investment per Coon.  Served                                        77.0         k)         Invest.ent  per Conn. Served                                        77.0



eATIR STPP=X ANM SlR;A)GE 39   F PRO=
FOFJLATION SEVPM IN 19P7 AND UBBAN 12hWY IMAC' 7H MAW
ThcuBrhi of Per79ts2. 1nCrere+l Va-a  Betwe. lP4-47 a/
WATsI SUPPLY                                                             SIEA(
TTcrmern*al                              f7iran Pbor                                              Increnental    d Poor tn
'Jrbbr                 PoJroe  op. Serv3i  Pop. Serv.   'Jrbn Poor   Icrmrentl   tIn Incrern+tl                 C3erved of   JrcrraEl7    Urbn lbr      Imrrer+>a
State        Pop2laix          r         by 1937       Up. +o IC7      Served  1Por Served   PednIartas   Pop. Sre    Tb1 Pp-                p              Served      B___f___a
Ronxionia 1/
Acre               196.7        L06.7      160.6 (9P6)         59.4      79.1 (75) 5/   41.3            71             90.9         46            77.9            0.4            i
Rorbim              159.0        49.9       5L.0 ('051")       19.2      41.0 (ML0)      10.1           55             54.7         41            21.9            8.9           41
AmapaE             215.8        116.9      1189. (9f6)         60.p      c0.6 (79)       41.6           60              q.7          5             3.9            -              -
A,,z,i,,n   1/  i,166.9         676.7      9r3.4 (DIf)        469.7      443.3 (66*)    l19.6           25            1?3.4         11            90.5           16.9           19
T%zM             2,2320.0     1,449.5    1,P29.6 (G)          550o.    1,049.1 (721)    3q.8            77             71.0          3-                           -              -
Merannao         1,754.4      1,280.7    1,473.6 (92f)        492.1      964.9 (75-%)   362.7           74            405.0         23           224.9           95.5           38
Thzii            1, 11.2        996.5    1,157.9 (,Fw)        455.4    Y99.2 (84W)      355.6           79            256.0         19           1-2.6           55.3           45
C0re             3,374.R      2,396.1    2,934.9 (94*)       1,475.8   1,996.1 (74)   1,161.5           7q            540.0         16           330.&          122.0                          i
RIO Norfe        1,427.0      1,027.4    1,294.3 (9")         3D6.3    8P4.7 (832)      227.q           74            299.7         21           196.7           22.9           12
Faraiba          1,91L6.0     1,3}9.7    1,629.6 (995)         520.6   1,11.3 (9010     251.9           70            4.40.7        23           136.9           34.4           27
Permohv-buco     4,527.4      3,C2Q.2    3,501.7 (98          915-9   2,293.5 (761)     650.5           91          1,.57.4         24            3.2           145.5           7
At,-                            E 1,3.0  ?.0  1,170.0 (901)   583 .0    754.0 (5)       430.4           92            195.0         15           153.4           22.9           15
Sergi,e          1,091.0        792.8    1,01q.0 (9w)         409.0      680.8 (q9*)    276.3           68            207.0         10             -              -              -
Ban1a            9,958.0      3,749.1    4,347.3 (94*)       1,389.4   2,7,8.4 (74dr)    W9.7           68            568.0         i0           229.7           80.4           35
.  lerai. 1/  11,220.0        6r,977.6   10,l39.0 (9(       7,271.8   5,395.6 (MI)   1,f83.4            25          7,293.0         65          2,415.5        1,457.0          60
a3pirito Setnto    1,363.0      831.4    1,295.3 (94')        373.5     754.q (91*)     276.8           74            105.0          8            33.3            -              -
Rio le Jeeiro   10,964.0      4,924.2   10,097.8 (92!)       1,57F.5   3,958.0 (2)    1,098.3           70          6,271.4         57           875.3          131.6           15
SeLo %-Ovlo     189,16.0      7,936.3   17,630.0 (97%)       2,894.R   6,670.3 (84,    1,379.7          48          9,619.1         51          1,322.7         757.1           42
Parwia           6,1 (T .1    3,356.7    5,431.9 (")         1,405.9   2,695.4 (937%    763.8           54          1,5(7.1         25           358.8           43.9           12
Serta Clataira    2,937.1     1,319.5    2,105.0 (83*)        631.6      Ff8.0 (67*)    435.2           70            319.9         13            157.3           3.2            2
Rid NuL          5,955.0      1 ,958.0    3,955.0 (1YO        640.2   1,958.8 (10(      453.6           71            676.3         17           T30.4            6.7             2
Mato Sui         1,419.i        923.1      993.4 (701(        248.5      347.4 '48        9.8           40            201.5         14             51.1           1.3             3
l1to ,,ro,a9o    1,232.5       c77.1        9.2 (77%)         335.2      476.9 (62()     216.9          56            217.0         17            94.0            3.0            3
7fias            3,090.4      1,fF.i    2,410.5 (73r          qc5.0      314.3 (17*)     49.0            5            763.2         25            3f33-3         23.9            6
DistrLs Vedaerel  1,366.4       464.6    1,311.7 (96*)        124.9      409.9 (34       63.9           51          1,770.4         93           402.7          318.6           79
"YYAL           83,456.7     4,8,9F4.9   78,952.2 (89d)     23,963.9  37,675.3 (78F)  L0,00A.2          S0.1       32,526.3         37          8,897.7        3,349.3           38
m m
a/ - Anout 12.2 ndlion 1o re perwn3, alrneiy  nec+.ei will tri+t frm imprwed  ate J1ity, Servce, preae ari rLtkirt+y.
oa'
1/ o-'& aS yet xuiveilaols or very en+ttve.
/  ()  Of toal P      tpla.ion
3/ (*) w of ,rt poor.



BRAZ IL
WATER SIJPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
AFE1RABILITY OF M    M CCNSLUMVfON (MDN1HLY VALLES).  TARIFFS, flNINM SAtARIES
AND ORTN 1/ AS OF NOVEMBER 1982
I   Mininm    I        Charges for        IMnimnnI    Mnthly Charge as a          I MJnthly Charges as a Percentage
Consunption IMinimm Consunption (Cr$) I SaLary  I Percentage of Min. Salary  I of Maxinum Allowed by Tariff Law 1/
I             I           I   Water and   I          I           I    Water and   I                I    Water and
State          I              I  Water   I   Seerage    I   Cr$   I  Water   I    Sewerage    I         Water     I    Sew-rage
1.  Rondonia         I      20      1 343.80   1      515.70    1  20,462 1   1.53   1        2.52      1      52                55
2.  Acre             I      15      1 444.45   1      711.72    1  20,462 1   2.17   1        3.48      1      68       1        76
3.  Roraima          1      20      1 382.20   1      611.52    1  20,462 1   1.85   1        2.99      1      58       1        65
4.  Anapa            1      10      1 178.90   1      313.08    1  20,462 1   0.87   1        1.53             27       1        33
5.  Amazonas         1      12      1 410.88   1      410.88        20,462 1   2.0L   I       2.01      1      63       1        63
6.  Para                    10      1 171.20   1      342.40       20,462 1   0.8'4   1       1.67      1      26       1        37
7.  Maranhao         I      10      1 362.80   1      616.70    1  19,780 1   1.83   1        3.12      1      55       1        66
8.  Piaui            I      15      1 405.00   1      729.00    1  19,780      2.05   1       3.69      1      62       1        78
9.  Ceara            I      10      1 275.70   1      551.40    1  19,780 1   1.33   1        2.79      1      42       1        59
10. Rio G. Norte     I      10      1330.00   1       594.00    1  19,7801   1.67   1         3.00      1      50       1        63
11. Paraiba                 10      1251.00   1       502.00    1  19,780 1   1.27   f        2.54      1      38       1        54                         O
12. Pernambuco       1      10      I 239.00   1      478.00    1  20,462 1   1.17   1        2.34      1      36       1        51
13. Alagoas          I      10      1 414.50   1      829.00    1  19,780 1   2.1)  I         4.19      1      63       1        88
14. Sergipe          I      10      1 419.00   1      754.20    1  19,780 1   2.12   1        3.81      1      64       1        80
15. Bahia            I      12      1 375.00   1      750.00    1  20,462 1   1.83   1        3.67      1      57       1        80
16. Minas Gerais     I      10      I 250.10   I      500.20    1  23,6001   1.06   1         2.12      1      38       1        53
17. Espirito Santo   I      10      1 348.00   1      469.80    I  23,600      1.43   1      1.99      1       53       1        50
18. Rio de Janeiro   I      15      1 143.09   1      286.18    I  23,600 I   0.61   1        1.21     1       22       1        31
19. Sao Paulo        I      15      1 394.02   1      723.62    1  23,600 1   1.67   1        3.07     1       60       1        77
20. Parana           I      10      1 310.87   1      621.74    I  23,600 1   1.3'  I         2.63     1       47       1        66
21. Santa Catarina   1      15        444.00          888.00    I23,600 1   1.88   1         3.76      1       68       1        95
22. Rio G.Sul        I      10      1288.00   1       576.00    I  23,600I   1.2'!  I        2.44      1       44       1        61
23. Mato Sul         I      15      1 382.05   1      764.10    1  20,462 1   1.87   1       3.73      1       58       1        81
24. Mato Grosso      I      20      1 513.20   1      769.80    1  20,462 1   2.51   1       3.76      1       78       1        82
25. Goias                   15     1 320.70   1       641.40    1  20,462 1   1.57   1       3.14      1       49       1       68
26. Distrito Federal I      15     1 158.10   1       316.20    1  23,600 1   0.67   1       1.34      1       24       1        34
I         ~     ~I    I                I         I           I                I                Io 
Total Average    I             I          I                I          1   1.57   1       2.79      1      50       1        63
1/ For water 0.35 of one ORIN or Cr$657.31; for water and sew-rage 0.5 of one ORIN or Cr$939.01.



- 89 -
ANNEX 17
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A) Selected Reports and Studies on The Sector
1.  Tabulacoes Avanzadas do Censo Demografico 1980-IBGE
2.  Sipnose Preliminar do Censo Demografico 1980-IBGE
3.  Censo Nacional do Saneamento Basico 1973-BNH
4.  Censo Nacional do Saneamento Basico 1978-BNH
5.  Pesquisa Nacional do Saneamento Basico 1974-BNI
6. PRODISAN - Programa de Desarrollo Institucional das Companhias
de Saneamento do Brazil - BNH
7.  Metodo de Pesquisa Nacional Para Amostra de Domicilios na
Decada do 1970 - IBGE
8. Indicadores Socias 1979 - IBGE
9. Codigo de Aguas - Ministerio das Minas e Energia
10. Anuario Estadistico do Brazil 1980
11. Catalogo Brasileiro de Engenharia Sanitaria e Ambiental - ABES
12. BNH Basic Legislation
13. Sanitation Sector Credit Lines (BNH)
14. National Tariff Law and Regulations
15. Avaliacao do Programa das Pequenas Comunidades - FSESP - BID
16. Acceso a Infra-Estrutura de Saneamento Basico e Mortalidade - IBGE 1981
B) Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Global Feasibility Studies of the SWCs (1982)
2. Audited Financial, Statements of SWCs
C) Working Papers
1. Financial Data for BNH and SWCs
2. Detailed Calculations of Marginal Cost and Rate of Return for a Group
of Subprojects
3. Sector Information
4. Detailed Calculation of Costs






IBRD 16948
------Fp .. R,
60                                                                                    4P
Fn,nzi
4ATER SOPPLY: f9ND, GEWERAGE
LEVELS"BY STATE
t9 3/1387
VENEZUELA
N-.-. N                                                                   AME1
7
FREI`,C14
GUIANA                                                       %
COLOMBIA
RORAIMA'
4TX A NjC  qCEA A/
AMAPA
Lk
MARANH,O
C)  N  A                                      p  A                                                             c
r
"A-
PERNAMBUC,
A C  R E                                                            .................
Y
A
M  A T 0
P E R U                               ROND6NIA
G  R  0  S S 0
J                                           GOIAS
BRAIILj
wte, S.pply                     BOLIVIA                 MATO GROSSO",                         M  N S  G F R A I S
DO SUL
ESPRft
5AN
IA. PAII
J                JRIO
`AAN
PARAGUAY
7,-LI
State Bwndo,ios
IANTA'CATARIN
te-ati-l londo,ies
RIC GRANDE                       I . I                          0  406    300    50b
KiLOMEtfA6
ARGENTINA                       DO    SLJL                                            MfLES
URUGUAY6)



