OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 2249 BR
Loan Assumption Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL - CEF
Dated             _      / V      , 1987


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2249 BR
LOAN ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  / Y        , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL - CEF (hereinafter
called CEF).
WHEREAS (A) By a loan agreement, dated Ma-ch 30, 1983,
between the Bank and Banco Nacional da Habitac.o (hereinafter
called BNH), (such agreement as amended to this date, hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement), the Bank made a loan (hereinafter
called the Loan) to BNH in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three hundred two million three hundred thousand
United States dollars (US$302,300,000) in the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B) By a guarantee agreement dated March 30, 1983, between
the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement), the Guarantor guaranteed the obligations of BNH in the
Loan Agreement contained, in the terms and conditions set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
(C) By Decree Law No. 2.291 of the Guarantor of November 21,
1986, BNH was merged into CEF, a public enterprise established by
Decree Law No. 759 of the Guarantor dated August 12, 1969, being
provided that CEF was to succeed BNH in all of its rights and
obligations, including BNH's obligations under the Loan Agreement;
(D) The Guarantor and CEF have requested the Bank to agree
to the undertaking by CEF of all of BNH's covenants, agreements
and obligations in the Loan Agreement contained or referred to,
and for that purpose, to enter into this Agreement and into tne
agreement with the Guarantor referred to below;
(E) The Guarantor has agreed to confirm its obligations in
the Guarantee Agreement contained with respect to CEF in a
supplemental guarantee agreement (hereinafter called the
Supplemental Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith;
(F) The Bank has agreed to the Guarantor's and CEF's
requests based on the representations made by the Guarantor and
CEF about the finances and operations of CEF; and
WHEREAS, upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank and CEF have agreed to enter into this Agreement (hereinafter


﻿-2-
called the Loan Assumption Agreement) upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth, which include amendments to the
Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context requires otherwise, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, and in the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Other Loan Assumption Agreements" means the agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and CEF by which CEF
assumed 1 .e rights and obligations of BNH under Loans 1009-BR
(Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1309-BR (Second
Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1525-BR (Greater
Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project), 1654-BR (Sites
and Services and Low-cost Housing Project), 1656-BR (Northeast
Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1823-BR (Southern States Water
Supply and Sewerage Project), 1850-BR (Third Minas Gerais Water
Supply and Sewerage Project) and 1970-BR (Water Supply and
Sewerage Project); and
(b) "Other Supplemental Guarantee Agreements" means the
agreements of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the
Bank by which the Guarantor confirmed, supplemented and maintained
its guarantee and other obligations in respect of Loans 1009-BR
(Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1309-BR (Second
Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1525-BR (Greater
Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project), 1654-BR (Sites
and Services and Low-cost Housing Project), 1656-BR (Northeast
Water Supply and Sewerage Project), 1823-BR (Southern States Water
Supply and Sewerage Project), 1850-BR (Third Minas Gerais Water
Supply and Sewerage Project) and 1970-BR (Water Supply and
Sewerage Project).


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Loan Assumption
Section 2.01. CEF hereby assumes, and agrees to carry out and
fulfill, all of the covenants, agreements and obligations of BNH
in the Loan Agreement contained or referred to, and the Bank
hereby recognizes the succession of CEF to the rights of BNH under
the Loan Agreement, and, consequently, CEF is hereby substituted
for BNH as a party to and Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. All action taken under the Loan Agreement by
BNH shall be valid and binding on CEF as though CEF had been BNH
and the coming into effect of this Agreement shall not affect any
right acquired or obligation incurred or the consequences of
action taken or omitted to be taken by the Bank or BNH under the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Not later than December 31, 1987, CEF shall
furnish to the Bank the results of the review of its organization
being carried out by the University of Sao Paulo and Fundacao
Getulio Vargas.
(b) CEF shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the proposals of the above-referred review relating
to the CEF's sanitation sector organizational arrangements and
procedures.
ARTICLE III
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 3.01. The Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
1.   The Preamble is amended by:
(a) substituting "Banco Nacional da Habitacao" in the first
paragraph by "Caixa Economica Federal-CEF";
(b) adding after the letter (A) in paragraph (A) of the
words "Banco Nacional da Habitacao (hereinafter called BNH), which
has been succeeded by;"
(c) deleting paragraph (c);
(d) adding the word "and" at the end of paragraph (B); and


﻿(e) designating paragraph (D) as paragraph (C).
2.   Section 1.02 is amended by:
(a) substituting the words "under the direction of" in
paragraph (h) by "by BNH and is being carried out by";
(b) substituting the words "the Borrower's" in paragraph
(j), (k) and (r) by "BNH's" and adding after the words "thereof)"
in the same paragraphs "and being carried out by the Borrower";
(c) substituting the words ""COSAN" means Carteira de
Operacoes do Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento, an office" in
paragraph (1) by ""DESAN" means Departamento Central de
Saneamento, a department";
(d) substituting the word "cruzeiro" in paragraph (p) by
"cruzado";
(e) deleting paragraph (q);
(f) designating paragraphs (r) and (s) as paragraphs (q) and
(r), respectively; and
(g) by adding the following new paragraphs (s) and (t):
"(s) "FCVS" means Fundo de Compensaro de
Variar,es Salariais, the Guarantor's Salary
Equivalency Fund established by Resolution
No. 25/67, dated June 16, 1967 of the Board of
Directors of BNH; and
(t) "FGTS" means Fundo de Garantia do Tempo
Servico, the Guarantor's Employee Indemnity Fund
established by the Guarantor's Law No. 5.107, dated
September 13, 1966."
3.   Section 2.02 is amended by:
(a) deleting the word "and" after sub-paragraph (a) (iv) and
adding the word "and" after sub-paragraph (a) (v);
(b) adding the following new sub-paragraph (iv) to paragraph
(c) thereof:
"(iv)   Any expenditures incurred between
November 30, 1986 and January 31, 1987;"


﻿- 5 -
(c) substituting the words "cruzeiros" and "cruzeiro" in
paragraph (f) by the words "cruzados" and "cruzado", respectively;
and
(d) substituting the date December 31, 1986 in paragraph (k)
by December 31, 1987.
4.   Section 2.03 is amended by substituting the date December 31,
1986 in paragraph (c) by November 30, 1987.
5.   Section 2.04 is amended by substituting the word "COSAN" in
paragraph (b) with the word "DESAN".
6.   Section 3.01 is amended by deleting sub-paragraph (g) (i) (c)
and its substitution by the following:
"not later than December 31, 1987, a plan to meet
the financial performance referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement not later than in year 1989;"
7.   Article III is amended by adding the following Section 3.08:
"Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall maintain
organizational arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
purposes of the management, monitoring and coordination
of the execution of the Project and PLANASA, such
arrangements to include a central unit in charge of
planning, supervision and control of PLANASA and
evaluating Sub-projects to be financed with the proceeds
of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall staff the unit referred to
in paragraph (a) above with an adequate number of
officials with suitable qualifications and experience.
(c) The Borrower shall not change the
organizational arrangements referred to in this Section
without the Bank's prior concurrence."
8.   Section 4.01 is amended by substituting the words "Laws
No. 4,380 of August 21, 1964 and No. 5,762 of December 14, 1971,
and Decree No. 75,512 of July 23, 1973, as amended from time to
time" by "the Guarantor's Decree Law No. 2291 of November 21,
1986, and Decree No. 93,600 of the same date and its Annex."


﻿- 6-
9.   Section 4.06. is amended by:
(a) deleting paragraph (a) and its substitution by the
following:
"(a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
Companies and States to take all such action
(including timely action with respect to the
setting or adjustment of each Project Company's
rates for its water supply and sewerage services)
as shall be necessary to cause, in each calendar
year, each Project Company's revenues from water
supply and sewerage services together with all its
other operating revenues to reach not less than the
sum of its operating costs, depreciation charges
and debt service, provided however, that the
timetable for the implementation of this Section
shall be in accordance with each Project Company's
plan referred in Section 3.01 (g) (i) (C), as
approved by the Borrower and the Bank;" and
(b) deleting the words ", as provided in the
Legislation" in sub-paragraph (b) (ii).
10. The following new Section 4.09 is added to the Loan
Agreement:
"Section 4.09. Not later than December 31, 1987, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
reconciliation satisfactory to the Bank of the accounts
of the FGTS funds    -d ministered by the Borrower, in
calendar years 198' and 1986."
11. Section 7.01 is amended by deleting the address of Banco
Nacional da Habitacao and its substitution by the following:
Caixa Economica Federal
Setor Bancario Sul
Quadra 4, Lote 34
CEP 70070, Brasilia, D.F.
Brasil
Telex:
(061) 1365
(061) 3864


﻿- 7 -
12. Schedule 5 is amended by deleting the words "the Tariff Law
and" in paragraph B. (14).
Section 3.02. A full text of the Loan Agreement as amended to
this date, including the amendments herein contained, is set forth
in the Annex to this Loan Assumption Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date
Section 4.01. (a) This Loan Assumption Agreement and the
amendments to the Loan Agreement herein contained shall become
effective on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to CEF and
the Guarantor notice of its acceptance of evidence that: (i) the
Loan Assumption Agreement has been registered with Banco Central
do Brasil; (ii) the execution and delivery of the Loan Assumption
Agreement and the Supplemental Guarantee Agreement on behalf of
the parties thereto have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action; and (iii) the
execution and delivery of the Other Loan Assumption Agreements on
behalf of CEF and the Other Supplemental Guarantee Agreements on
behalf of the Guarantor have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental and corporate action and all other
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Other Loan
Assumption Agreements and the Other Supplemental Guarantee
Agreements pursuant to the provisions of such agreements have been
met, except for the effectiveness of this Loan Assumption
Agreement and the Supplemental Guarantee Agreement.
(b) As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to
the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing: (i) on behalf of CEF that
the Loan Assumption Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified, and executed and delivered on behalf of CEF and is
legally binding upon CEF in accordance with its terms; and (ii) on
behalf of the Guarantor, that the Supplemental Guarantee Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by and delivered on behalf of
the Guarantor and is legally binding upon the Guarantor in
accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE V
Addresses
Section 5.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of any notice required or permitted to be given pursuant
to this Agreement:


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 48423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CEF:
Caixa Economica Federal
Setor Bancario Sul
Quadra 4, Lote 34
CEP 70070 Brasilia, D.F.
Brasil
Telex:
(061) 1365
(061) 3864
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representative thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-. 9 -
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL - CEF
By
Authorized Representative


