Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 20501
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(22610)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$78 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Rural Development 2
Africa Region
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Naira
Naira 8.854 = USS 1.00 (at Appraisal, 1990)
US$ 1.00 = Naira 90.0 (at Completion 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABU          Ahmadu Bello University, Samaru/Zaria
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
AERLS        Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services Units of the
Institutes
ARMTI        Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ARCN         Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria
ASD          Agricultural Science Department Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
CGIAR        Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CRIN         Cocoa Research Institute for Nigeria
FACU         Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FGN          Federal Govemment of Nigeria
FIIRO        Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi
FMST         Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
FMANR        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMARD        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FRIN         Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria
FSR          Farming Systems Research
HRDP         Human Resource Development Plan
IAR          Institute of Agricultural Research
IART         Institute of Agricultural Research and Training
ICIPE        International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology
IITA         International Institute for Tropical Africa
ILCA         International Livestock Center for Africa
ICRI         Lake Chad Research Institute
MANR         Ministry of Agricultural and Natural Resources (State)
MTRM         Ministry of Technology Review Meeting
NACAR        National Advisory Council for Agricultural Research
NAERLS       National Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Service
NAPRI        National Animal Production Research Institute
NARI         National Agricultural Research Institutes
NARP         National Agricultural Research Project
NARSP        National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan
NCA           National Council for Agriculture
NCRI          National Cereals Research Institute
NCRP          National Coordinated Agricultural Research Program
NCST          National Council for Science and Technology
NIFFR         National Institute for Freshwater and Fisheries Research
NIFOR         National Institute for Oil Palm Institute
NIHORT        National Institute for Horticulture Research
NIOMR         National Institute for Oceanography and Marine Research
NITR          National Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research
NLPD          National Livestock Project Department
NRCRI         National Root Crops Research Institute
NRSP          National Research Strategy Plan
NSPRI         National Stored Products Research Institute
NUC           National University Commission
NVRI          National Veterinary Research Institute
OAU           Obafemi Awolowo University, Ilfe-Lfe
ROS           Research Grant System
RRIN          Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria
SAP           Structural Adjustment Plan
SPAAR        Special Program for African Agricultural Research
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:       Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:        Eugene Terry



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEM[ENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 2
S. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       7
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                        8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     10
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






JProject ID: P002092                                        Project Name: AG. RESEARCH
Team Leader: Eugene Robert Terry                            TL Unit: RDV
ICR Tpe: Core ICR                                           Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: AG. RESEARCH                                    L/C/TFNumber: 22610
Country/Department: NIGERIA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment; AR - Research; XX -
Unidentified
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/12/87                                  Effective:  11/01/91           06/03/92
Appraisal:  03/01/90                                    MTR: 01/01/98              01/19/98
Approval:  06/11/91                                  Closing:  12/31/98            12/31/99
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: FEDERAL GOVERMENT OF NIGERIA /FEDERAL MINISTRY OF SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY
Other Partners: None
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                          Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:      Yaw Ansu                                   Koch Weser
Sector Manager:       Joseph Baah Dwomoh                          Anand Seth
Team Leader at ICR:   Eugene Terry                               Ashok Seth
ICR Primary Author:   Rosemary M. Cubagee; Eugene
Terry
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
[nstitutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to develop an institutional framework for the improvement of research
management systems so that priorities are in accordance with national development objectives, the needs of
farmers, and sustainable use of natural resources. Complementary objectives were for the development and
effective deployment of human resources at all levels, rehabilitation of infrastructure of the NARls, and for
an increasing emphasis on high priority research.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions in the overall project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The principal project components were: (i) Research System Development; and (ii) Strengthening of the
Research Institutes.
3.4 Revised Components:
None.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although a quality at entry review was not performed, the project objectives at project preparation were
appropriately defined, and were relevant to the needs of the country's agriculture sector, the Government's
sector strategy, and the Bank's country assistance strategy at that time. On this basis quality at entry is
rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory despite the significant scientific achievements in
agricultural research, technology generation and dissemination (see Box 1, Section 4.3, and also Section 9 -
Partner Comments). The project sucessfully revitalized and initiated the enhancement of the research
capacity of the Nigerian National Agricultural Research Institutes (NARIs), which had been severely
depleted as a result of a severe funding decline in the 1980s. The project was instrumental in introducing
effective research management procedures, namely priority setting, planning, budgeting, and monitoring
and evaluation. The project strengthened the capacities of the research institutes by providing essential
equipment such as vehicles, computers, laboratory and field research facilities and other infrastructure. It
also financed rehabilitation of buildings, and provided badly needed funding for priority research programs.
One of the significant outcomes of the project was the establishment of the Nationally Coordinated
Agricultural Research Programs (NCRPs) which has succeded in the development of improved crop and
animal genetic material and improved agricultural production tools and techniques relevant to the national
agricultural development and food security objectives of Nigeria. An equally important outcome of the
project is the establishment of a viable Research Extension Farmer Input Liaison System (REFILS) which
has improved the flow of information and relevant feedback from farmers to the NARIs and vice versa.
- 2 -



Achievements of the NCRPs:
Major achievements recorded in arable and horticultural crops research implementation include amongst
others, development and release of eight varieties of sorghum with good food and matting qualities and
yield advantages of 250-375%. Three cowpea varieties that are resistant to Striga/Alectra, insect pests and
diseases have been released. Downy mildew and striga resistant maize open-pollinated varieties yielding
2-3 tons/ha earlier developed were popularised for control of the diseases in endemic areas. A rice variety
FARO51 that is highly tolerant to devastating African rice gall midge (AfRGM), a heat tolerant wheat
variety LACRIWHIT- I yielding 4-5 tons/ha in farmers plots, and six widely adapted free modulating and
shattering resistant soybean varieties have also been released. Improved varieties ready for release include
four low-cyanide and pest resistant cassava varieties (TMS71762, TMS00447, TMS00033 and
NR84292), 2 early maturing millet varieties SOSAT-C88 and GB8735 with yield advantage of 250-280%
over local varieties, 4 okra lines including the spineless LD88 which is good for export, 3 plantain and two
banana selections that are resistant to black sigatoka disease. Some of these are already being grown by
farmers in areas where on-farm testing were conducted in their selection process.
The development of many new varieties of crops resistant to various diseases, pests and environmental
stresses has led to improved productivity and yield of such crops. Generally, most of the research
objectives in the sub-sector were achieved with adoption rates of above 50% recorded in many of the
improved varieties in various studies conducted.
In spite of these significant technical achievements, the management of the financial assets of the project
was unsatisfactory, resulting in the suspension of critical components of the project as proposed in the
objectives. Among the key components that were negatively affected and remain incomplete are the
research grant scheme, the human resources development plan, the installation of seed production facilities
and other major NARIs civil works. Project counterpart funds were prematurely suspended due to the
suspension of disbursement of the Petroleum Trust Funds from which a significant part of the counterpart
funds was obtained. The implementation of the procurement plan was highly unsatisfactory, due to
contracting for goods and services which were found to be the result of bid rigging with collusion between
project staff and suppliers, or otherwise not in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement
violations and general inefficient management of project funds resulted in significant financial losses to the
project and to Government
4.2 Outputs by components:
Research Systems Development (RSD). The first objective of the RSD is to provide operational support
for the National Advisory Committee for Agricultural Research (NACAR) and to strengthen the
Agricultural Science Department (ASD) of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST).
NACAR, in its capacity as an independent advisory body. played an effective role in accelerating project
implementation, and provided guidance to ASD of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (FMARD). In May 1996, an Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria (ARCN) was created
by decree to replace NACAR, and to further facilitate the implementation of agricultural research projects.
It is expected that the ARCN's statutory powers will strengthen its capacity for a more effective advocacy
role for NARP as compared to the limited role played by NACAR in this regard. The project has
strengthened the research management capacity of the ASD, specifically in the areas of agricultural
research priority setting, research project planning and budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, and
information management systems. However, due to the decline in financial support from the Government
counterpart sources, the desired enhancement of budget controls that were required under this component
were not realized.
-3-



The second objective of the RSD, which was for the development of National Agricultural Research
Strategy Plan (NARSP), was achieved. This plan was prepared for implementation over a fifteen-year
period (1996-2010) through a highly participatory process, involving a large number of different
stakeholders. The process involved multidisciplinary teams in each of the five main agricultural zones at
which level research priorities were formulated, and then aggregated to the national level. A basic
assumption in the NARP plan preparation was for the provision of a second phase of NARP to be executed
over a seven-year period. The NARSP, however, did not identify sources of long-term financing for its
effective implementation on a sustainable basis.
The third RSD objective, the establishment of a Research Grants Scheme (RGS), was only partially
achieved in that it was initiated, but not well managed. It was established to promote agricultural research
in the universities as well as the private sector, to ensure that these organizations become full participants
in the national agricultural research system. Under the RGS, principal investigators were trained in project
planning, monitoring and evaluation, and grants were made to successful applicants for work to be carried
out over a period of three years. However, the closure of universities due to a series of civil unrest during
the initial implementation of the scheme and delays in releasing of funds and reimbursement of expenditures
resulted in low draw-down of the RGS funds. In all, 34 projects were initiated and 19 were rated
satisfactory with 70-80 percent completion. Some of these funds were eventually reallocated to other
activities in the project with the concurrence, of the World Bank on a no-objection basis. The scheme would
require a major revision in terms of its operational modalities if it is revived.
The fourth objective of the RSD was to develop a Human Resource Development Plan (HRDP) through a
comprehensive inventory of the NARIs staffing, with details on profiles and technical and support staff
ratios. The plan also included a skills gap analysis and indications for future training needs of the NARls.
Under the plan, capacity building program for managerial, scientific, technical and administrative staff was
initiated. Short-term local and overseas training in research management, and short-term local group
training in computer appreciation, for both scientists and non-scientists, were also provided. Most of the
senior management staff (Assistant Director level or equivalent and above) in all the institutes attended one
form of research management training or the other between 1994 and 1997. The trainings were found to
have positively impacted on the management of research programmes in the NARls. A total of 347 staff of
the NARIs attended overseas training visits, conferences, workshops and study attachment during the
project period while 676 staff were trained locally in computer appreciation, research management,
computerised accounting system, varietal maintenance and breeder seed production technology and
audio-visuals. The computer appreciation training was judged as the most successful of all the post-HRDP
training programmes. As a result of the training, most of the institutes' scientific staff have now become
computer literate and can process and analyse their data.
Long-term academic training for Master of Science (M.Sc) and Doctorate (Ph.D.) programs was also
initiated. Funding constraints resulted in the suspension of some of the training programs, and the
majority of the Ph.D. candidates have not yet completed their programs. Other programs that were
suspended include those proposed for: (i) library documentation and computerization; (ii) administration for
institutes' secretaries; (iii) use of CAREMIS (at the NARls); (iv) NCRP coordinators; (v) NARI seed unit
officers; (vi) auditors; and (vii) research management for newly appointed institute directors.
The major causes of the slow implementation of the training component were the delay in the completion of
human resources development plan and skill-gap analysis, delayed ministerial approval and slow response
of the institutes to requests by NARP management for training nominations and documentation. The
skill-gap analysis was conducted in 1994 while the training plan was completed in 1996 and approved only
- 4 -



in 1997.
The newly establised Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria (ARCN) will undertake a comprehensive
review of staffing patterns, skills-mix, performance level and relevant qualification of all agricultural
research and development staff for the effective implementation of the next phase of the NARP.
The fifth objective of the RSD was for a Technical Assistance (TA) Program in which three specialists
were recruited as advisors for research management, agricultural research strategic planning, and financial
management. The advisors for research management and strategic planning completed their assignments
and departed in 1994, while the financial management specialist's contract was extended so that he could
act as the project manager through June 1997. The research management advisor had a national
counterpart attached as an understudy early in the assignment. This contributed significantly to the
effective acceleration of certain aspects of project implementation. The national counterparts, however,
for the other two advisors did not have a long enough period of attachment to maximize the benefits from
on-the-job experience. The procurement violations and the resulting financial losses to the project and
Government were partially the result of this lack of coordination.
Strengthening of Research Institutes (SRI). The first objective under SRI component was for the
rehabilitation of infrastructure and provision of funds for repair and/or purchase of equipment considered
essential for implementing the agreed priority programs. A range of infrastructure rehabilitation activities
were initiated, including civil works, and procurement of a large number of assorted equipment, vehicles,
and computers for use by the NARls. The project procured over 10,300 equipment (vehicles, tractors,
motorcycles, generators, computers, printers and laboratory equipment) (see Annex). Over 60 percent of
the vehicles procured are now out of commission due to lack of spare parts and inappropriate maintenance.
The ICR mission revealed that more vehicles were purchased than originally envisaged, and that this led
partially to a situation where some vehicles could not be provided with spare parts when necessary. Some
of the computers and printers procured under the project are in need of maintenance, and not fully utilized
due to frequent power outages. A major civil works undertaken, was the construction of a USD 1.9 million
Central Research Laboratory Complex, which is supposed to house ARCN. This facility is, however,
among those that are still incomplete due to lack of counterpart funds. There are some rehabilitation
works which, although completed, still have substantial outstanding balances to be settled with the
contractors (see Annex). These suspensions have had negative impacts on the progress of the work of the
NARIs concerned, and have resulted in impeding some crucial NARIs' activities.
The second objective of SRI component was for the establishment of Priority Research Projects
(PRPs)/Nationally Coordinated Research Programs (NCRPs). One hundred and twenty-one research
projects in selected priority areas were implemented by the 18 NARIs in lieu of the preparation of the
NARSP. Most of these projects became part of the 29 NCRPs that were implemented from July 1996 on
the completion of the NARSP. Three agricultture universities and 23 faculties of agriculture, veterinary
medicine, international agricultural research centers, the private sector, and Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), have participated in the implementation of the NCRPs. NCRPs are now an
effective mechanism for conducting applied agricultural research, and for mobilizing the efforts of research
scientists in NARIs, regional and international institutions to address researchable problems of agricultural
development. They have become important mechanisms for collaboration with the network of Consultative
Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) centers, (i.e., the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture, the West Africa Rice Development Association, the International Center for Research in the
Semi-Arid Tropics, the International Livestock Research Institute, the International Potato Institute, and the
International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management). The capacities of the NARIs were also
enhanced because the areas in which collaboration have been established with CGIAR provide good
- 5 -



complementary between the work of the NARIs in commodity improvement and natural resources
management.
In response to the need to integrate relevant aspects of natural resources management into the farning
systems, and to establish some balance with the emphasis on commodity research, a Soil and Water
Management (SWM) Component was added during project implementation. An attempt was also made to
reorientate the on-going Soil and Water Management Research (SWMR) C'oiiiponent to facilitate the
participation of the Nigerian program in the African Soil Fertility Initiative based on expectations for
funding from this project. The implementation of this, however, coincided with the funding declines in
1997. As a result no tangible progress was made.
The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) collaborated with other agencies in the development
and release of new varieties of arable and horticultural, forest and tree crops, and provided support for
research in cattle, sheep, goat, pigs and poultry and fisheries. NARP also provided support for
socio-economics and policy research, extension research, agro-processing, and storage technologies
research resulting in the design and fabrication of various types of simple machines and implements.
NARP procured and installed some of the seed production and processing equipment for the continuation
of work on breeder and foundation seed production and National Seed Services (NSS) linkage arrangement.
A total of nine seed units were established at a selected set of NARIS. From the accumulated experience of
NARP's seed technology projects, a seed technology manual for varietal maintenance and breeder and
foundation seed production was produced and published.' Boreholes were also installed to provide for
off-season seed production and multiplication. There are still, however, some seed production equipment
which have arrived at their appropriate locations, but are yet to be installed. A request has been made to
the Government for the Federal National Agricultural Research Department (FNARD) officials to use their
good offices to facilitate visa extension for the installation specialist to complete his tasks.
The final objective of the SRI Component is to strengthen research extension linkage. The project
established Research Extension Farmer Input Linkage Systems (REFILS) to improve linkages between
research and extension, and to ensure that farmers' problems are reflected in the planning of research
programs. This research-extension network involves the five zonal coordinating institutes which provide
technical support to the Agricultural Development Programs (ADPs) for diagnostic surveys, on-farm
adaptive research and technology review meetings. The Zonal NARIs provide training of extension agents
and farmers, link farrners with input agencies, and provide mobility and supervision for extension agents.
Close cooperation with Local Government Authorities and Farmers Organizations has been established to
enhance the participatory approach in the REFILS and to share running costs. As a result, REFILS now
constitute an effective feed-back channel to research on the impact of the technologies developed.
Technology adoption studies were commissioned to further verify and document the contributions of the
project to enhanced economic value of agricultural products and by-products to the Nigerian economy. The
findings of the studies are undergoing final review and revision, but preliminary data indicate significant
returns to the investments in research. The studies indicate that the technologies generated by the NARIs
and disseminated through the ADPs had positive adoption rates and a positive impact on the Nigerian
economy. Economic rates of retums (ERR) were 55% for improved cassava varieties, 25.8% for improved
potato varieties, 46% for downy-mildew resistant maize varieties, 31.5% for open pollinated maize, 29%
for improved soybean varieties, 14.4% for improved sorghum, 46% for improved rubber clones, and 42%
for hybrid fish (Hetero-Clarias).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Only preliminary data are available. See Section 4.2.
- 6 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Only preliminary data are available. See Section 4.2.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated as modest, because NARP succeeded in providing
only the initial stimulus which was badly needed for the reorganization of the NARIs. There is now need
for sustained effort to maintain this momentum so that the NARIs can utilize their participation in the
project to continue to identify priority targets for agricultural research and development so as to meet the
demands of their clients. The project has improved the capacity of the research institutions to better
synchronize their research efforts with the activities of the national extension system (ADP's Unified
Agricultural Extension System (UAES)). This synchronization has made it possible for smallholder farm
families to quickly benefit from improved agricultural technologies and services. The impact of an
improved research management system for the NARIs, especially with regard to research planning and
budget allocation has however been significantly minimized due to inadequate support from Government
through counterpart funds. The result has been a widespread loss of budgetary controls which was an
essential objective of the improvement of the research management system.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation (1992-1999) coincided with the period during which Nigeria was undergoing a
range of social, political and economic problems. These naturally had negative impacts on the overall
performance and outcome of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was negatively affected by inadequate Govemment counterpart funding, lack of a sound and
transparent financial management system, and delays in the appointments of Technical Assistants. Serious
deficiencies in fund management. especially in procurement, resulted in substantial loss of funds to the
Govemment and the project. Indeed, the Bank declared misprocurement for the contracts which were
affected by bid rigging with collusion between project staff and suppliers, or otherwise not procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was negatively affected by a high turnover of project coordinators. Between November 1993
to November 1999, six coordinators managed the project, four of which spent less than six months on the
job due to disagreements with the Agricultural Science Department.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$104.1 M. out of which, Government contribution was
estimated at ULS$26.1 M. However, at closing, the actual project cost was US$89.7 M and Govemment
contribution amounted to US$7.8 M. Also. at the close of the project actual project costs per project
component were not available. However, disbursement records indicate that under goods, consulting
services, technical assistaicie and training there was an overdraw of US$7.3 M (see Annex).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The sustainability of the project was assessed as unlikely since for the immediate future, agricultural
research in Nigeria will continue to depend almost exclusively on public funding support. The current
- 7 -



situation is such that the NARIs do not have adequate internal budgetary allocations to maintain their
infrastructures, vehicles, and the equipment procured with NARP funds. The sustainability of NARP, in
particular, and the institutional sustainability of the Nigerian agricultural research system. in general, is
threatened if public funding is not increased and more efficiently managed. During the ICR mission. the
Government announced that a major review of the activities of all agencies and institutions engaged in food
security projects will shortly be undertaken with a view to rationalizing their structures and functions. This
review will no doubt have implications for the sustainability of NARP.
A resource mobilization strategy is required with options for sources of financing, and an assessment of
how funding sources may be diversified. This is imperative, given the multi-stakeholder-vested interest in
agricultural research, and its role in promoting agricultural development. The potentials for
commercialization of research must be carefully assessed to avoid an overestimation of the level of research
funding that could be generated from that source.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NARP has developed a concept paper proposing follow-up actions as part of a seven-year project, to
ensure continuity and sustenance of the achievements during this current phase. The focus of this second
phase would be on technology generation for poverty alleviation, especially within rural communities,
which is in line with the World Bank's mission recommendations. In addition, the NARIs have prepared
operational plans for an interim project implementation phase for the period 2000-2002 with a breakdown
of the financial requirements for the target activities. Priority activities for this transition phase would
include establishment of centers of excellence at NARIs for Integrated Pest Management, Soil and Water
Management, Environmental Protection and Biodiversity, and Seed Technology. The ICR recommended
that during this transition phase, the proposals for biotechnology in the recent (May 1999) consultant's
report be further reviewed for incorporation in a revised NARSP. In view of the rapid advances related to
genetically modified organisms, appropriate steps must be taken to assess the risks and benefits of
biotechnology for use in Nigerian agricultural research.
The Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria, which will have executive powers, is expected to greatly
facilitate the implementation of the activities proposed in this next phase. A high priority of the ARCN,
once it is constituted, will be to review the short- and long-term plans for agricultural research, and to
provide leadership in prioritizing these activities. The ARCN will work closely with the FNARD to
formulate strategies for long-term sustainability of the financial support for agricultural research. It is
proposed that ARCN will review the current NARP Headquarters/Secretariat staff, with a view to deciding
on their eventual deployment.
The plans for an interim phase notwithstanding, the misprocurement issues continue to impede any
substantive discussion with the Bank for follow-up activities. The Bank has made it clear to the
Government that it will be unable to support any further credits for the Agriculture and Rural Development
Sector until the Government implements agreed measures to reform procurement procedures in the sector,
and also takes appropriate disciplinary measures against those involved in the misprocurement.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The project's objectives were consistent with the needs of Nigeria's agriculture sector and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy at the time. It however suffered from a high turnover of project coordinators,
in that between November 1993 to November 1999 six coordinators managed the project four of which
spent less than six months on the job. Project implementation (1992-1999) coincided with the period during
- 8 -



which Nigeria was undergoing a range of social, political and economic problems.
7.2 Supervision:
The mid-termn review was held in November 1995 and the conclusions were as follows:
*  the development of National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan (NARSP) was completed in
September 1995.
*  Research-Extension-Farmer linkages program was further strengthened by the introduction of the
concept of Village Adoption Approach.
*   The FGN assured the review team of payment of Naira 356 million as counterpart funding before
March 1996.
*   Project management improved considerably but counterparts for the two long term consultants
(NARSP Advisor and Financial Management Advisor) had not been appointed.
Although the performance ratings for the various mission cycles (PSR) were consistently satisfactory (1990
- 1998) the ICR revealed that the Project Task Manager was assigning these ratings purely on the research
output of the project, and that these ratings did not reflect the major deficiencies of financial and
institutional management. The ICR determined that an inordinate amount of supervision time was spent in
interactions mostly with external specialists reviewing the progress in the project. The mid-term review for
example was conducted by 67 specialists, 11 of which were IDA staff, 4 IDA consultants, 11 CGIAR
scientists, and 31 local consultants (see Annex 4). While these interactions may have served to improve the
technical content of the research programs, they were at the expense of vital supervision time which could
have been devoted to reviewing procurement and other implementation performance and compliance with
guidelines.
The supervision deficiencies in Bank performance were most significant in procurement as highlighted by
the June 1999 Procurement Audit, and partially confirmed by the ICR. The key areas of procurement
deficiencies were in: (i) non-compliance with procurement processes, especially in bid invitations and bid
evaluations; (ii) contract awards; (iii) contract management; (iv) documentation and physical verification.
There was abundant evidence of (v) a lack of procurement planning, contract packaging and procurement
scheduling leading to uneconomic procurement and lack of transparency; (vi) lack of transparency in the
choice of firms selected under shopping procedures, leading to costlier procurement and unacceptable
procurement practices; (vii) manipulation of shopping procedures providing scope for fraud and corruption.
There was also evidence of (viii) absence of appropriate provisions relating to per-shipment inspection, and
manufacturers warranty in the bidding documents. The ICR confirmed that the project was supplied with
refurbished or used equipment, or equipment not meeting specifications or end-user needs usually leading to
losses to the Government. There was also evidence of unsatisfactory collection of liquidated damages and
inaction against delinquent contractors.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borroweres performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory as regards project identification,
preparation and appraisal. It participated fully in discussions concerning project component identification.
-9-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance on project implementation was deficient, characterized by a lack of critical
attention to the need for proper monitoring of the financial management of the project. This resulted in the
procurement deficiencies. There was clear evidence of lack of communication within FMARD and partner
ministries and other associated agencies. This resulted in either inadvertent dereliction of responsibilities,
or a deliberate exploitation of the lax management and supervision.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was implemented by the Federal Ministry of Science and lTechnology (FMST). FMST's
performance was affected by mismanagement. There was a high turnover of project coordinators.
Between November 1992 to December 1999, six coordinators managed the project, four of which spent less
than six months on the job due to disagreement with the Agricultural Science Department. At project
preparation, oversight for NARP was assigned to the FMST, but in November 1992, just prior to the
project's effectiveness date, the ASD, and oversight for the project were transferred from FMST to
FMANR. Oversight responsibility was transferred to yet another ministry in June 1999, when the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) was created.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are important lessons to be learned from the implementation of the NARP:
1. Major deficiencies in performance with regard to financial management and procurement were due to the
fact that the selection process for the personnel for these tasks was not as rigorous as was demanded for a
project of this importance and magnitude. It is imperative, therefore, to identify and appoint staff with the
appropriate qualifications, and an excellent track record for financial management and procurement
responsibilities.
2. The performance of the financial consultant was highly deficient especially when he was required to act
simultaneously as the NARP project manager. This arrangement created a situation where the work load of
this officer was so excessive as to result in inefficiencies. It is vital to ensure that the checks and balances
in project financial management be ensured through the separation of these two functions.
3. The project Task Manager was negligent in his supervision of the management of the financial assets of
the project, especially the procurement of goods and services. Clearly more time and effort was devoted to
the technical aspects to the detriment of the management aspects. It is imperative that due diligence be
maintained as rigorously for the management as well as the technical aspects of a project of this nature.
4. Some of the equipment purchased for the project would have been more useful if the end-user NARIs
staff were adequately consulted and in a timely manner. Some measure of decentralization of procurement,
and also a comprehensive procurement procedures package, including installation and end-user training
would have been useful.
5. The inability of the NARIs to continue with the research and development activities that had been
initiated under this project when the counterpart funds were prematurely terminated highlights the
- 10 -



importance and need for a long-term resource mobilization and allocation strategy for projects like the
NARP. It also highlights the need for the diversification of funding sources for agricultural research for the
sustainability of the Nigerian National Agricultural Research System.
6. Because the NARIs had been starved of research funds for over a decade, the provision of IDA funds
through NARP stimulated tremendous interest in attracting funds for projects that were useful and relevant,
but inevitably, some that were not rigorously selected. It is important for project managers to internalize the
need for rigorous priority setting for project identification.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Objective:
The objective of the Project were to:
1.    Develop an institutional framework and improve research management system in Nigeria.
2.    Develop and effectively deploy human resources at all levels.
3.    Rehabilitate and strengthen the agricultural research infrastructure, including support high priority
research and research-extension linkages.
Major Achievements Under Project:
Major achievements recorded in arable and horticultural crops research implementation include amongst
others, development and release of eight varieties of sorghum with good food and malting qualities and
yield advantages of 250-375%. Three cowpea varieties that are resistant to Striga/Alectra, insect pests and
diseases have been released. Downy mildew and striga resistant maize open-pollinated varieties yielding
2-3 tons/ha earlier developed were popularised for control of the diseases in endemic areas. A rice variety
FARO51 that is highly tolerant to devastating African rice gall midge (AfRGM), a heat tolerant wheat
variety LACRIWHIT- I yielding 4-5 tons/ha in farmers plots, and six widely adapted free nodulating and
shattering resistant soyabean varieties have also been released. Improved varieties ready for release include
four low-cyanide and pest resistant cassava varieties (TMS71762, TMS00447, TMS00033 and
NR84292), 2 early maturing millet varieties SOSAT-C88 and GB8735 with yield advantage of 250-280%
over local varieties, 4 okra lines including the spineless LD88 which is good for export, 3 plantain and two
banana selections that are resistant to black sigatoka disease. Some of these are already being grown by
farmers in areas where on-farm testing were conducted in their selection process.
The development of many new varieties of crops resistant to various diseases, pests and environmental
stresses has led to improved productivity and yield of such crops. Generally, most of the research
objectives in the sub-sector were achieved with adoption rates of above 50% recorded in many of the
improved varieties in various studies conducted.
- 11 -



Forestry and Tree Crops
The Forestry and Tree Crops sub-sector has six NCRPs - Forestry/Agro-Forestry, Sericulture and Wildlife
coordinated by FRIN, Cocoa, Oil-palm and Rubber coordinated by CRIN, NIFOR and RRIN respectively,
and involving twenty-seven collaborating institutions. CRIN also conducts research on Kola, cashew,
Coffee and Tea, NIFOR on other palms and RRIN on gum arabic.
Achievements recorded in the sub-sector include selection, development of rapid multiplication methods and
distribution of six popular savanna multi-purpose tree species such as Parkia biglobosa, useful for food,
fodder and medicinal purposes. Backyard methods of rearing cane rats and giant African snails were
developed and popularised. Selection of cocoa accessions that show resistance to Phytophthora pod rot
disease and capsids have resulted in "CRiN ELITES" clones with yields of 1800 - 3000 kg/ha/year
compared with yields of about 450 kg/ha/year by Amelonado clones hitherto grown in Nigeria. Fresh seeds
of oil-palm and sprouted nuts of superior materials of second cycle breeding populations yielding 20-25
ffb/hectare (25% higher yielding than existing EWS 4 variety are being supplied to farmers. Budded
stumps of improved rubber clones NG800 and NG900 series with yields of 2,500 -3,500 kg/ha/year dry
rubber compared with 300 - 400kg/ha/yr. Have also been produced to meet farmers' demand.
Improved technologies and rapid method of producing planting materials in forestry and tree crops have
resulted in appreciable increase in quantity of planting materials in some cases above immediate farmers'
demand.
Livestock
A total of 14 PRPs later subsumed in 4 NCRPs were implemented in the sub-sector coordinated by 3
research institutes (NAPRI, NVRI and NITR). Cattle, sheep, goat, pigs and poultry were the main focus
of the project under the sub-sector.
Livestock research under the project sets out to improve the productivity potentials of various breeds and
types of livestock and poultry found by natural selection in various zones and improve their adaptation to
other areas in the country. It also aims at the identification of feed resources to expand the spectrum of
feed ingredients, evaluation and dissemination of optimal nutritional requirements, genetic improvement,
pasture seed development, control of diseases as well as improved management practices.
The main achievements were in the promotion of the techniques of artificial insemination as a tool for
breeding, development of NAPRI Shika Brown" parent layers, multi-locational testing of commercial
layers for adoption of high performance day old chicks, adaptation of quails to 4 out of 5 agricultural zones
in Nigeria as well as efforts to develop a local technique for hatching ostrich eggs. Existing dairy
production systems are being improved through strategic supplementation of lactating cows with dual
purpose legume forages like lab-lab or groundnut haulms which can increase milk yield in critical dry
season periods by as much as 100%. Six forage grasses and 12 forage legumes have been selected,
multiplied and distributed for commercial cultivation and range management. These have also enhanced
small-holder fattening schemes for cattle and enhanced farmer income from improved pasture seed
production and distribution. Furthermore, small-scale milk processing techniques have also been developed
with capacity for processing 200 litres of milk/day into yoghurt, butter and cheese as well as a milk
chuming equipment to improve the consistency, flavour and shelf-life of yoghurt.
For disease control measures, 3 local herbs have been identified for possible control of coccidiosis in
chickens, attenuation of PPR virus for vaccine production, local formulation for the control of
dermatophilosis, a common animal skin disease in cattle, in addition to pharmaceutical preparations for
- 12 -



control of coccidiosis. Other achievements include the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) for the tse-tse
and trypanosomiasis using a combination of traps, chemical attractants, insecticide impregnated screens
and chemotherapy employed to reduce tse-tse population to 5% in riverine areas of Niger State. Peste des
petits ruminantes (PPR) homologous vaccine for sheep and goats and FMD vaccines were developed and
successfully tested in the field. Many other vaccines are also under various stages of development and
quality assessment. These include goat and sheep pox vaccine, lumpy skin disease vaccine and Mereks
disease vaccine.
Fisheries
Research on fisheries deals with marine and freshwater fisheries and encompasses both capture and
aquaculture fishing systems. A total of two NCRPs were implemented in the sub-sector and coordinated by
two institutes (NIOMR and NIFFR). A major thrust of research is in a stock assessment of various species
in all the agro-ecological zones. Other research areas include the development of fingerling production,
identification of alternative fish feed sources, selection of proper gear and on-farm evaluation of the'
Magbon-Alade' smoking kiln.
Major achievements were in the development of a hybrid catfish that records 2kg within ten months
compared to its parents H. longifilis and C. angularis that grow only to 900gm and 250gm respectively
within the same period. Four new lines of fast growing hybrid catfish have been developed. An indigenous
zooplankton Moina micrura common in freshwaters in Nigeria has been identified and mass produced for
feeding of lavae and fry of catfishes and other hybrids in hatcheries and ponds has commenced. This
break-through has successfully replaced the need for imported Artemia zooplankton. An internationally
acceptable Turtle Excluder Device (TED) was designed and fabricated for Nigeria's shrimp industry
prompting the United States of America to lift an earlier ban on shrimp importation from Nigeria.
A cost-effective diet (fish feed) for aquaculture was developed for South East zone using wheat bran, blood
meal and palm kernel cake to obtain 4 - 6 tons/hectare/year from a polyculture of C. gariepinus and
Tilapia. 'Magbon-Alade' fish smoking kiln was improved upon to make it acceptable by reducing batch
time from 18 to 4 hours. This has positively impacted on labour productivity in fish smoking.
Soil and Water Management
The soil and water management research received little attention under NARP until 1997 when
Medium-Term Research Plan (MTRP) on soil/water management research was formulated as part of the
Soil Fertility Initiative for sub-Saharan Africa. NACAR has also created a Technical Sub-Committee on
Soil and Water Management as part of new emphasis being given to Sustainable Land Management (SLM)
and Soil Fertility Initiative (SFI) for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). One NCRP with twelve research themes
covering soil and water management, soil/water conservation, soil fertility management and land evaluation
is being implemented with IAR&T as the national coordinating NARI and the five zonal NARIs serving as
zonal coordinating institutes. A framework for monitoring soil and water management research has been
developed using the matrix approach for identifying high priority projects and community participation. A
Land Information Network Office (LINO) is being established at IAR&T. This will include the provision
of hardware and software on GIS and other relevant information for sustainable land management.
Agro-processing and Storage
Given the wide variety of crops and livestock produced in Nigeria, the drudgery of many post-harvest
- 13 -



operations, especially for women, and the challenges of storing and transporting food products over a long
distance in a tropical climate, NARP provided support to FIRRO and NSPRI in addition to the research
programmes of several other institutes' agro-processing and storage technologies research. Various types of
simple and affordable machines and implements were designed, fabricated, tested and promoted for
indigenous mass production and dissemination. Such machines include the brown sugar processing plant,
groundnut shedder, small-scale processing equipment for oil-palm, ginger splitting machine and
multipurpose dryers to mention a few. A diffused light store structure for Irish "seed" potato, vegetable
basket for keeping leaf vegetable fresh and fruit transporting crates have been improved upon and their use
promoted.
The popularisation of soybean through the development of local soybean-based products, is one of the
major success stories of Nigerian agriculture in the past decade. Under NARP, promotion of different
soybean recipes has led to increased local trading of soybean food products with attendant improvement in
nutritional status of many Nigerians. Several of these products are targeted at infants and school children.
Socio-Economic Policy
The overall objective was to initiate a pro-active policy research expected to provide information to the
policy-makers with a view to ensuring that the year-to-year macro-economic and sector-specific policies
promote agricultural production and development. NISER and collaborating institutions (Central Bank of
Nigeria and National Planning Commission), carried out one research theme: "Characterisation of
Socio-Economic Factors Influencing the Demand for Locally Produced Agricultural Raw Materials by
Industrial Enterprises." The findings which have been published into a book, reveal that although the much
desired linkages between agriculture and industry have been established in Nigeria, such linkages are weak
and rudimentary.
Extension Research
Studies on the effectiveness of communication channels found the radio to be one of the most effective mass
media for dissemination of agricultural technologies. Adoption studies on crop mixtures, Crop Residue
with Urea (CRU) process, labour saving devices and some newly released agricultural practices found that
extension agents and neighbours/friends were the most commonly cited sources of infornation of improved
technologies, thus underscoring their importance.
Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
Although the SAR did not provide specifically for support for seed production in the NARIs, observations
and recommendations during the MTR on non-implementation of certain seed selected activities under
NSQP (Loan No. 31 83-UNI) necessitated the continuation of these activities under a NARP - NSS
linkage. Nine (9) seed Units were established and strengthened in six strategic NARIs (IAR, NCRI,
IAR&T, NIHORT, LCRI and NAPRI) for the purpose of breeder and foundation seeds production. Seed
production and processing equipment were procured, and installed with boreholes provided for irrigation.
Tractors, implements, and vehicles were also supplied. Consultants were appointed to guide the take-off of
the Units while NSS staff in conjunction with NARP monitored the seed Units operational activities to
ensure quantity and quality. Seed production has increased significantly as a result of NARP intervention
with the establishment of the NARIs seed units in 1996. Breeder seed production increased by nine-folds
- 14 -



between 1995 and 1997, while foundation seed production increased by two-folds in 1996.
Establishment of Centres of Excellence at NARIs
A provision to designate and equip certain institutes as centres of excellence was partially achieved.
NIHORT and NCRI were identified for Integrated Pest Management, IAR&T for Soil and Water
Management, while FRIN was identified for Environmental Protection and Bio-diversity. The University of
Agriculture, Makurdi although not one of the NARIs was designated and equipped as a centre of excellence
for training in seed technology development.
Research Extension Farmer Input Linkage System (REFILS)
In order to address the problems of weak linkage between research and extension and ensure that farmers'
problems are reflected in the planning of research programmes, the SAR provided the sum of USD13.4
million to support REFILS activities. The component was successfully implemented and a strong linkage
has been established between research and extension.
The research-extension network system involved the five zonal coordinating institutes (IAR, IAR&T,
LCRI, NCRI and NRCRI), FACU, NAERLS, NARIs/Universities who provide technical support to the
ADPs in diagnostic surveys, OFAR and MTRMs. The project funded the activities of 95 REFILS
programmes implemented in the 18 NARIs. It also provided equipment and vehicles to collaborating
institutions (37 ADPs, FACU and APMEU) to facilitate their participation in OFAR programmes, MTRM,
diagnostic surveys, workshops/conferences and adoption/impact assessment studies (Table 5C). During
project period the NARI staff participated in 1684 MTRMs/QTRMs, 70 diagnostic surveys, 1957 OFAR
trials and 225 workshops, seminars and conferences. Twenty-one pilot adopted villages were established
for the purpose of OFAR and technology demonstrations and mass adoption of improved technologies.
Radio and TV programmes were conducted while many extension publications were distributed. An
Agricultural Calendar has been produced for each agricultural zone and is being used at the Technology
Review meetings by the ADPs and NARIs.
NAERLS, which coordinates the NCRP on Extension Research also coordinated and aired 1,349
programmes on various technologies on radio and 78 on TV. It coordinated the conduct of adoption studies
on some released technologies and evaluated the effectiveness of some extension methods. Extension
programmes on commercialisable research findings in the NARIs have been produced for airing on regional
radios and television stations.
Effective linkages have been developed and strengthened among NARIs and ADPs, FACU, APMEU, TCU
and private organizations/NGOs. NARIs implementation of adopted villages concept has facilitated early
adoption of new technologies and strengthened the linkage with farming communities. The NARP
intervention has ensured a coordinated approach to research-extension linkages under REFILS, encouraged
scientists participation in extension activities in line with T&V extension management. It has also ensured
that recommended messages are based on proven technologies derived from on-farm research.
-15 -



Farner involvement in research has been further enhanced through assistance to farmers to identify
problems at diagnostic stage, participation in relevant workshops, provision of land, labour and
participation in evaluation of on-farm research in adopted villages, execution of OFAR with guidance of
extension, implementation of SPAT, and feedback of farmers' reactions through joint field visits, block
meetings and FNTs to research. The project enabled agricultural research to respond to priority farming
systems problems.
Research Institutes - Universities Linkages
During the project implementation, linkages with NARIs and Universities were strengthened with greater
collaboration. The NCRP approach with the involvement of University scientists, their representation in
NACAR, involvement of scientists in RGS and in financing activities, greatly improved and strengthened
linkages among the institutes and universities. NARP supported the development of Seed Technology
Programme of UAM with equipment and Training of staff in addition to provision of equipment, computers
and vehicles to many Universities to support improved research. However, the SAR provision to identify
and equip at least 3 faculties of agriculture as centres of excellence for post-graduate training was not
implemented.
International and Regional Collaboration
Linkages with key international centres dealing with Nigeria's main crops and livestock have also been
strengthened. Linkages and participation in international research programmes, acquisition of germplasm
and training continued throughout implementation period. Collaborative partnerships have been established
by NVRI with FAO, CIRAD and others for development of vaccines and diagnostic services as well as
collaboration with FAO/IAEA to complete an External Quality Assurance Programmes which earned the
institute recognition for use of the ELISA techniques for rinderpest diagnosis and serology. Similar
collaboration and partnerships which have produced significant achievements have also been undertaken by
NIFOR, RRlN, NAPRI, NCRI, IAR&T, IAR, NIOMR, NIFFR, NRCRI etc with IITA, ICRISAT, ILRI,
WARDA, ICLRAM, GTZ, IDRC etc. under their various commodity mandates.
DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1 .    The implementation and the relative success of the project was positively influenced by (i) the
effective leadership and coordination provided by NACAR and its Secretariat; (ii) the availability of
experienced scientists in the NARls; (iii) the concept of NCRP which brought about collaboration between
scientists in various research institutes and universities and resulted in optimisation of available resources;
(iv) technical and scientific support from World Bank Supervision Missions (v) the improvement in basic
infrastructures (buildings, water supply, electricity) and the supply of a large number of vehicles, tractors,
office and laboratory equipment which facilitated research implementation; (vi) linkages with national,
regional and international organisations such as ICRISAT and IITA; and (vii) the exposure of NARI
personnel to various training programmes and the provision of joumals, periodicals and books.
2.    Project implementation was negatively affected by several factors. These are classified into 2
categories: factors subject to implementing agencies control and factors subject to government control.
- 16 -



Factors Subject to the Control of Implementing Agencies
3     Delay in procurement of goods and services led to delay in commencement of some activities.
4.    Internal delay in disbursement of funds in some NARIs caused delay and untimely execution of
activities.
5.    Frequent changes of Project Officers and Disbursement Officers in some NARIs affected
continuity and smooth implementation of scheduled programmes.
6.    Initial inexperience with IDA procurement procedure through ICB resulted in the first set of
vehicles procured by the Project not being suitable for field work.
7.    Inadequate supervision of the NARIs and the RGS by technical units of NARP headquarters was
partly responsible for the poor implementation of some research programmes.
8.    Many collaborating Institutes could not be easily oriented to SOEs fund management system,
which led to delays in reimbursement.
Factors Subject to Government's Control
9.     The unfavourable economic environment characterised by high inflation, incessant industrial
actions by labour unions, prolonged and acute shortage of petroleum products and political tension during
implementation disrupted planned programmes and greatly increased local project costs.
10.   Inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funds led to long delay in the reimbursement of
SOEs to the NARIs and this adversely affected scheduled execution of research programnmes.
11.   The non-constitution of Governing Boards for the NARIs considerably delayed the initiation and
execution of major policies and administrative decisions. Promotions have been stalled in most research
institutes.
12.   Frequent changes of NARP Project Manager and Directors of Institutes affected management
continuity and in some instances slowed down implementation activities.
13.   Government embargo on recruitment of staff coupled with partial implementation of the Human
Resources Development Plan (HRDP) led to the non-filling of critical vacancies and skill-gaps at both
NARP headquarters and the NARIs.
14.    Sudden increase in salaries and allowances without corresponding subventions from the Federal
Government resulted in NARIs using locally generated funds, that could have complemented NARP funds,
in paying salaries to douse industrial crises.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not appliacable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
None
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance lndicators/Log Frame Matrix
KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicators in                    Estimated                                  Actual
President/SAR
1. Research Systems Development
L  Establishment of support for         To be set up by June 1992 and chaired by  NACAR was inaugurated on July 2, 1992,
operation of NACAR                      an eminent Scientist with 10 eminent      and chaired by an eminent Scientist with
member representing inter-institution    10 members
interests
To establish sub-committees in various   Six technical sub-committees covering
sub-sectors to advise NACAR              various sub-sectors were established
Strengthening of ASD to provide a        ASD was strengthened and NACAR
Secretariat for NACAR.                   Secretariat set up.
Institutionalization of RMS and procedures   CAREMIS was completed in 1998 but not
fully operational
Medium to Long-term plans to be prepared   A long-term NARSP and MTRP was
by December 31, 1992                     prepared and in use from mid 1996
Implementation of RGS                    240 applicants were screened with 34
approved. 19 projects were rated
satisfactory while 15 were rated average.
Preparation and implementation of HRD    A skill gap analysis was conducted in 1994
plan by December 31, 1992                and a HRD plan was approved in 1996.
Appointment of 3 intemationally recruited    Three advisors were recruited in 1994
advisors for Research Management,
Planning and Financial Management
11. Strengthening of Research
Institutes
Rehabilitation of facilities at Research  Rehabilitation of facilities not fully
Institutes through repair, replacements and   implemented; replacements and supply of
supply of agricultural and laboratory    agricultural and laboratory equipment,
equipment, vehicles, machinery,          vehicles, machinery, computers and other
computers and other equipment            equipment implemented. Also see Annex
7, table 3 & 4.
Establishment of Centres of Excellence in    Partially achieved at UAM with
Research Institutes                      establishment in /seed /technology and
Training. NIHORT and NCRI were
identified for integrated pest management
IAR&T for Soil, and Water, FRIN for
Environment Protection and Biodiversity.
- 18-



Implementation of RIS and RMS         Computer programs and procedure for
RMS and RIS have been developed and
computers procured. CAREMIS has been
installed in institute computers. However,
this is yet to function as required training
have not been conducted and headquarters
building not completed.
Implementation of research in various  Implemented
sub-sectors in line with MTRP
Development and operation an efficient  Fully implemented
research-extension linkage program
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage
Estimate       Estimate          of
Project Cost by Component                         US$ million    US$ million     Appraisal
Research Systems Development                         19.40          18.15            94
Research Institute Support
1. Infrastructure Rehabilitation                    35.80           51.90           145
11. Priority Research Program                       21.00           13.65           65
111. Research Extension Linkage Program              11.40           7.40            65
Total Baseline Cost                                  87.60          91.10
Physical Contingencies                              5.90           00.0
Price Contingencies                                 10.60          0.00
Total Project Costs                    104.10        91.10
Total Financing Required                104.10          91.10          87.5
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement   Method
Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB            Other'         N.B.F.       Total
Cost
1. Works                         0.00            13.30           0.00           0.00        13.30
(0.00)          (5.40)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.40)
2. Goods                        26.00            10.50            1.00          0.00        37.50
(26.00)         (4.20)           (1.00)        (0.00)      (31.20)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00             0.50          0.00         0.50
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)
4. Research Grant                0.00            0.00             6.60          0.00         6.60
Scheme                          (0.00)          (0.00)           (6.60)        (0.00)       (6.60)
- 20 -



5. Technical                    0.00            0.00            2.40          0.00         2.40
Assistance                      (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.40)       (0.00)       (2.40)
6. Training                     0.00             0.00           13.60         0.00         13.60
(0.00)          (0.00)         (13.60)        (0.00)      (13.60)
7 Priority Research             0.00            10.00           20.20         0.00         30.20
Programmes                      (0.00)         (10.00)          (8.30)        (0.00)      (18.30)
Total                       26.00            33.80           44.30         0.00        104.10
(26.00)         (19.60)         (32.40)       (0.00)       (78.00)
Project Financing by Component lin US$ million equivalent)
App Isal Estimate            Adt                                  tA-   - ..
__  Bank     Govt.     CoF.      Boak                                : Gdvt. C . ik   .,    C4F.
Civil Works               5.40      7.90      0.00      3.50       0.00      0.00     64.8   0.0    0.0
Plant, Equipment Vehicles   31.20   6.30      0.00      49.80      0.00      0.00    159.6   0.0    0.0
and spare parts
National Strategic Plan   0.30      0.00      0.50      0.60       0.00      0.00    200.0   0.0    0.0
Research Grants           6.60      0.00      6.60       1.60      0.00      0.00     24.2   0.0    0.0
Technical assistance and  2.40      0.00      2.40      9.10       0.00      0.00    379.2   0.0    0.0
Studies
Training                 13.60      0.00      13.60     3.10       0.00      0.00     22.8   0.0    0.0
Priority Research        18.30      11.90     30.20     14.20      0.00      0.00     77.6   0.0    0.0
*Note: At the close of the project, actual Government project cost by component not available. (See Annex)
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Findings of studies are undergoing final review and revision. For preliminary data see Section 4.2 under
Technology Adoption Studies.
-22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  F   Development
Month/Year      Count   t Specialty                             Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 90                         5    lAG, I SFA, 2PA, I OOF
Appraisal/Negotiation
August 90                        5    1 AG, I SFA, 2PA, I OOF,
Supervision
June 92                          5   1 AG, I SFA, 2PA, 1 DA                   S                   S
October, 92                      7   IAG, 2SFA,2 PA, IDA
September 93                     5   lAG, ISFA, 2PA, 200F
November 94                      4   lAG, ISFA, IPA, IOOF                     S                   S
March 95                       2   ISFA. IAG
September95                      5   1AG, ISFA, IPA, IDA, IAGR                S                   S
November 95 mid-term            67   IML, IOPAN, 2FA,IAG,ISFA,                S                   S
review                                IAESP, 2LSP, CSP, IDOF,
ILSP,1 ICR, IHSP, CSP, CRS,
IHSP, IAHS,IMSP, IRMS,
IBSP, ISBSP, 21PMSP, IPBSP,
ICPSP, IRTSP, IRSP, ISSP,
ISSP, IGNSP, ISMSP, 6FSP,
2CSP&RM, IMESP, ICSP,
3SPSP, IABSP, IRMSP,
IPSSSP, ISPENG, INRSP,
I SECSP, 2AGPSP, IPMSP,
2FSP, 2EXTSP, IWIASP,
1RSFL,
March 96                         2   I SG, I SFA                              S                   S
July 96                          2   I SG, I SFA                              S                   S
June 97                          5   ISG, I1SFA, IRS, ICR, IOP                S                   S
January 98                      13   ISG, ISFA, IPRECO, IASECO,               S                   S
ISSP, I ESP, IGS,I PR,J SSP,J
LSP, IFA, ISP, IECO
May 98                            7   1 SG, 2SFA,2IMSP, 2PRECO                S                   S
October 98                       9   ITM, IECO, 2SISP, 2AG, 2PA,              S                   S
IFA.
ICR
December 99                      2   1 Economist, I Crops Adviser
*Agro-processing Specialist APSP,IPM Specialist= IPMSP, Cotton Specialist= CSP, Private Sector and seed production specialist = PSSPSP,
Crops Specialist & Res. Management=CSRM, Collaborative Research = CR, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist=MESP, Task Manager = TM,
Mission Leader =ML, Economist=ECO, Pr. Economist, Sr. Agriculturist =SG, Sr. Financial Analyst =FA, Operations Analyst =OPA, Agri.
- 23 -



Extension Specialist = AESP, Extension Specialist = ESP, Root &Tubes Specialist=RTSP, Rice Specialist='RSP, Statistics SpecialistSSP, Soils
Specialist=SSP, Groundnut Specialist=GSP, Sorghum & Millet Specialist =SMSP, Information Management Specialist =IMSP, Implementation
Specialist- ISP, Procurement Analyst = PA Crop Specialist =CSP, Disbursement Officer=DOF, Disbursement Analyst = DA, Integrated Pest
Management Specialist =IPMSP, Plantain & Banana Specialist-PBSP, Cowpea Specialist=CSP, Livestock Specialist.=LSP, Horticultural Spec.
HSP, Animal Husb. Specialist =AHSP, Millet Specialist = MSP, Biotechnology Specialist =BSP, Soybean Specialist = SSP, Cowpea Specialist =
CPSP, Forestry specialist = FSP, Crops specialist & Res. Management =CSP& RM, Cotton specialist = CSP,Seed Production Specialist =SPSP,
Private Sector & Seed Specialist = PS&SP, Seed Specialist Engineer = SPENG, Research Management Specialist = RMSP, Nataral Resources Mgt.
Specialist = NRMS, Socio-Economic Specialist = SESP, Agro-processing Specialist =AGPSP, IPM Specialist, Fisheries Specialist =FSP, WIA
Specialist, Res. Ext. Farm. Linkages Specialist  REFLSP.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
_ _ No. Staff weeks                         us$ _  US 0,00)_ 
Identification/Preparation                          198.6                               257.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                                45.2               1_17.0
Supervision                                       379.95                                929.8
ICR                                                    24                               63.78
Total                                             647.75                              1367.88
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
 Physical                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
 Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Institutional Development               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
ZGender                            OH OSUOM ON ONA
0 Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
? Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
F Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                  O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Scientific Results * = H
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
X Lending                                            OHS OS Ou OHU
* Supervision                                        O HS OS   * U   O HU
1 Overall                                            CHS OS *U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
i Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U  O HU
* Government implementation performance              0 HS OS  O U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   O U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  * u C HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Development Credit Agreement
2. Staff Appraisal Report
3. Mission Aide Memoire
MAP SECTION: IBRD Nos. 22275 and 22274
- 27 -



TABLE 1: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
| Study             Purpose as Definedvat     Esimated    XActual         Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redtfined        Date of      Dowte
Economic background of   To provide economic                          1995       Completed    The study provided the
National Agricultural    background to the                                                     necessary background on
Research Strategy Plan   development of the NARSP to                                           economic information and
ensure that the plan                                                 parameters within which
encompasses all relevant                                             agricultural research would have
issues and factors that affect                                       to operate. The contribution of
the contribution of research in                                      agriculture to the nation's
agricultural development.                                            development was examined
along with the factors that
affected the sector's
performance and those that will
influence it in the future. Factors
that included population
dynamics, trade liberalization
etc. were covered by the study.
The study made a good
foundation for the development
of NARSP.
Consultancy on Research    To develop the modalities and              1995       Completed    The report enabled NARP to
Grant Scheme (RGS) for   suitable criteria for assessing                                       implement the Research Grant
NARP                     eligibility of research                                               Scheme (RGS) along well-
proposals, guidelines for                                            focussed and articulated
processing the proposals,                                             guidelines. The criteria
suitable format for monitoring                                        developed enabled NARP to
and evaluation of the research                                        screen and select the RGS in a
projects.                                                             very competitive and
professional manner acceptable
to all the stakeholders.
An Appraisal Study of the   To assess the role of                     1996       Completed    The report made
Agricultural Extension   agricultural extension in                                             recommendations on the need to
System in Nigeria        agricultural development.                                             forge strong linkage between the
Identify problems of the                                              various agencies involved with
agricultural extension services                                      agricultural extension activities
in the country, recommend                                            in the three tiers of government.
short and long term solutions                                        It recommended more attention
to the problems, suggest                                              should be paid to middle level
strategies to achieve the                                            manpower training and curricula
overall national                                                      should include extension
developmental objective of                                           education. The
increasing agricultural                                              recommendations of the report
productivity and farner                                               stimulated discussions on how
income.                                                              best to share responsibilities of
extension.
An Appraisal Study of    To examine the constitutional                1997       Completed    Following the completion of the
Agricultural Extension   roles of the three tiers of                                           study and consideration of it s
Delivery Systems at the  government: Federal, State                                            recommendations, the
Local Level in Nigeria   and Local governments in                                              modalities of Technology
agricultural extension and                                           Review meetings were adjusted
suggest strategies for                                               to reflect available resources. An
strengthening the ADPs'                                              agricultural calendar of activities
extension delivery system at                                         was developed for each
the grass roots                                                      agricultural zone. This is being
used as a guide in the conduct of
-28 -



Study              Purpose as Dcfined at     Esfimad       Actuil        Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefned        Date of      Dates
Completion
the Technology Review
Meetings. Also as result of these
developments, some local
governments and NGOs have
improved their funding and
support for agricultural
extension activities in the
country.
National Agricultural    To develop a comprehensive                  1997       Completed    NARSP has identified farmer
Research Strategy Plan   agricultural research plan that                                     and end user problems and
(NARSP)                  encompasses immediate,                                              articulated immediate, medium
medium and long term                                                and long-term research areas
strategy taking cognisance of                                       and priorities. The plan has
farmer and end-user needs.                                          become the basic reference
document for planning annual
and medium term research
programmes for the NARls. It
also reintroduced the Nationally
Coordinated Research
Programmes (NCRPs).
Skills Gap Analysis and    To identify skills existing and           1997       Completed    The HRDP has been the main
Development of Human    those needed by the NARIs                                            document used by the NARIs
Resources Development    with respect to their (NARIs)                                       and ASD to implement their
Plan                     research mandates and                                               training programmes in line with
implementation of the NARSP                                         the identified skill need for
medium and long-term                                                research and management.
research programmes.
Extemal Review panel     To contribute towards putting
Report on the National   in place the structural,
Agricultural Research    organisational, institutional
Institutes               and operational modalities that
would assist government to
achieve the goals of NARSP.
Institute a culture of periodic
external review of the NARIs
in line with worldwide
practice.
Report of the Review of    To assess the strength and              1998       Completed      The exercise was carried out
the Outstations of the   weaknesses of the various                                           following the recommendations
National Agricultural    outstations, sub-stations and                                       of the External Review of the
Research Institutes      experimental sites operated by                                      NARIs mentioned above. The
(NARIs)                 the NARls with a view to                                             outstations were reviewed in
streamlining them to make                                           two phases. The
them more efficient and                                             recommendations of the two
responsive to the research                                          reports were accepted and the
needs and challenges of                                             114 existing sub-stations were
NARSP.                                                              reduced to 44 and the
experimental sites reorganised to
__________  .a total of 33.
Oil Palm Production      To study the problem of use of              1998     Completed      Extension division of NIFOR
Strategy using improved    NIFOR-produced seeds,                                             revitalized and equipped to
planting materials.     sprouted nuts and seedlings of                                       monitor oil palm planting
improved hybrid oil palm                                            materials and their use.
varieties for increased oil palm
production                          . .                      ,
- 29 -



Study               Purpose as Defined at    Estimatedii   A             Statis   :Ipct ofStudy
Appraisal/Redefined       Date of      Dae
Completion
Study of production and    To study strategies that will             1998     Completed      As above
distribution of improved    ensure regular uptake of
oil palm plating materials   planting materials by state
by NIFOR.               governments, ADPs, TCDUs
and private farms for gradual
replacement of the less
productive, difficult to harvest
oil palm groves.
1 Consultancy on          To review the status of                     1998     Completed      To provided database and high
Agricultural             biotechnology research in                                           awareness on agricultural
Biotechnology           agriculture in Nigeria and                                           biotechnology and
assess its relevance to                                             recommendation for immediate
achieving the goals of the                                          and long-term projects in
vision 2010 and NARSP and                                           biotechnology that can be done
recommend appropriate                                               in the NARls.
agricultural biotechnology
research programmes to be
undertaken by NARIs on both
short and long-term basis.
Adoption Studies on 26   To determine the adoption rate              1998     Completed      Provided adoption rates of
selected technologies   of technologies developed and                                        generated agricultural
developed in the NARIs    released by the NARIs.                                             technologies and feed back to
Generate data required for                                          researchers on the technologies
computing economic impact                                           released.
assessment on the released
technologies.
Economic Impact          To determine the economic                  August   Interim report  The ERR in most of the studies
Assessment studies on   impact of technologies                       1999    submitted       justified and urged for more
nine selected technologies  released by the NARIs and to                                     investments in agricultural
released by the NARIs    produce quantitative benefits                                       research.
in agricultural research as a
result of NARP intervention.
Document the economic
returns on research investment
to policy makers and other
stakeholders in agricultural
research to introduce impact
assessment studies as integral
part of technology
development.
Table 2A: Training Included in Project
TYPE OF TRAiNNG             Number of                           A ;Rezna    i;
Pattcipnts that C60j,00e
Finance                              261            261                 None
Accounting                           281            281                 None
Management                           100            100                 None
Science                              575            575                 None
Technical                            43             43                  None
Total                               1260            1260                None
- 30 -



Table 2B: Training Included in Project
Number
participated    Number
in M.Sc.    participate in
TYPE OF TRAINING                                    thepror  the Pb.D.
O'TH-ER TRAINING IN M.Sc. & Ph.D PRtOGRAM_____
Soil Science                                                           5
Crop Science/Protection                                2               4
Seed Technology/Tissue Culture                       None              2
Agricultural Economics                                 2
Food science and Technology                            2               2
Fisheries/wild life                                  None              3
Computer Science                                        1              0
Agricultural Extension                                 3               3
Agricultural Engineering                                I              I
Biochemistry                                           3
Microbiology                                         None              3
Plant/Weed Science                                   None              3
Animal Science                                       None              3
Veterinary Medicine/Parasitology                       6               3
Rural Development                                       I              0
Botany                                                  I              0
Agricultural Biology                                 None              I
Biometrics                                             2              10
Biometrics                                           None
Breeding                                             None
Irrigation EngineeringI                                                0
Remote Sensing                                          1              0
Integrated Peat Management                              I              0
Water Management                                        I              0
Entomology_3                                                           5
!AgronomY1                                                             9
Sericulture                                          None              I
Biotechnology                                           1              2
Total                                                  38             74
Remarks
Of the 112 staff that were sponsored under the project for the M.Sc. and the Ph.D. training,
only 9 staff completed the M.Sc. program and none of the Ph.D. candidates completed their
program.
- 31 -



Table: 3- List of Equipment Procured under the Project
Equipment                     Quantity
Laboratory Equipment                              38,436
Meteorological Equipment                             107
Extension                                             II
Breeder Seed                                         149
Vehicles                                            909
Tractors                                             22
Motorcycles                                         253
Computer                                            342
Printers                                              16
Computer Backups                                      I1
Photocopiers                                          76
Typewriters                                          116
Projectors                                           26
Generators                                           127
Air-conditioners                                     157
Others                                                 8
Totals                                            40,766
Table: 4A - Rehabilitated works at the Research Institutes
Contract
Amount
Institutes               Location                          Description                        USS
Conpleted Works
IAR & T                 Ibadan                    Rehabilitation of office and laboratory complex     17,313.59
NIOMR                    Lagos                    Rehabilitation of feed mill laboratory              31,114.45
NRCRI                    Umudike                  Rehabilitation of research and engineering          90,635.99
workshop, research liaison service and staff quarter
NRCRI                    Vom, Plateau State       Rehabilitation of storage and food processing block,  36,662.86
fertilizer stores and staff quarters
NRCRI                    Otobi, Benue State       Rehabilitation of storage and food processing block,  16,949.74
fertilizer stores and staff quarters
NRCRI                    Igbariam, anambra State    Rehabilitation of storage and food processing block,  10,134.22
fertilizer stores and staff quarters
Uncompleted Works
NCRI                     Badeggi                  Construction of laboratory                         205,320.26
NAPRI                    Shika, Zaria             Expansion and renovation of hatchery building,     205,320.26
extension of forage agronomy building
NIOMR                   Port Hacourt              Renovation of laboratory hatchery                   41,553.26
NIFFR                    Maiduguri                Relocation of fisheries college                    32,768,748
NARP Headquarters       Abuja                     Central research laboratory complex               1,922,512.13
- 32 -



Table: 4B - List of completed and uncompleted civil works
Borehole Projects
Contract               Outstanding
Amount                  Balance
Institutes          Location      Quantity           (US$)                   (Naira)
Completed Works                              _
NSPRI                   Ibadan               2                   151,111.88             1,108,161.55
NSPRI                   Ilorin               1                    85,698.31                1,245,559
NSPRI                   Hadejia, Kano        1                   109,121.07                13,623.60
FIRO                    Kano                 1                   126,343.93               321,054.09
NIOMR                   Lagos                1                   121,421.52               801,855.00
IAR                     Zaria                1                   115,944.23               300,447.91
NAPRI                   Shika                1                   130,315.88
NITR                    Vom                  1                   130,315.88                 7,765.10
NITR                    Kaduna               1                   130,315.88
NVRI                    Vom                  1                   130,315.88
FRIN                    Samaru               1                   124,434.93               211,496.08
NRCRI                   Umudike              1                   123,079.58             7,890,856.92
PRIN                    Iyanomo              1                   119,274.77               284,692.00
NIFOR                   Benin                1                   119,274.77               284,692.00
Uncompleted Works
NAERLS                  Zaria                2                   151,111.88             8,288,411.03
_Maiduguri            1                   294,040.91             1,598.968.25
Table: 4C - Civil Works Awarded but Suspended due to Lack of funds Borehole Projects
Contract Amount
Institutes               Location            Description             US$
NIHORT                   Kano                            1                      112,883.91
NAERIs                   Zaria                           1                      118,228.89
NIOMR                    Port Harcourt                   1                      121,421.52
NIFFR                    New Bussa                       1                      119,790.19
IAR&T                    Ibadan                          1                      112,441.54
NCRI                     Badeggi                         1                      124,947.54
CRIN                    Ibadan                           1                      124,434.93
NRCRI                    Umudike                         1                      123,158.96
Table: 4D - Civil Works Contracts Suspended
Contract Amount
Institutes       Job Description                USs                        Remarks
NRCRI,          Roofing of laboratory                  124,495.66  Awarded but suspended due to lack
Umudike                                                            of funds.
LCRI,           Completion of animal and        *Nairal12,000,000  Yet to be awarded.
Maiduguri       plant science laboratories
NIHORT,         Rehabilitation of a                      5,049.26  Contract was under-bidded.
Ibadan          laboratory complex                                 Required about 5 million Naira for
implementation as against a sum of
___________________________ ___N300,000 quoted for the job.
* = Amount in Naira
- 33 -



Table 6: Project Costs
Category        Categoiy Desrption                                         US$Millipn
I               Civil Works                                                           3.5
2               Plant, Equipment Vehicles                                             49.8
3               Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            .6
4               Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            1.6
5               Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            9.1
6               Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            3.1
7               Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            .3
7-1             Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training           10.4
7-2             Goods, Consultant Services, Technical Assistants & Training            3.6
Unallocated                                                             0
Totals                                                               82.0
- 34 -



AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.  A World Bank mission comprising Eugene Terry Rural Development Crops
Adviser (Task Team Leader) and Rosemary Cubagee (Economist) conducted an
Implementation Completion Review (ICR) of the Nigerian National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP), in Abuja, Nigeria from 8-28 November 1999. The mission
assessed the level of performance in the various components of the National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP), and their relevance to Nigerian agriculture. The mission
identified important lessons learned during the implementation of the project which may
be useful for future project design and implementation.
2.   The Nigerian National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) was designed as part
of a long-term strategy to revitalize the national agricultural research management system
and rebuild the research capacity of the National Agricultural Research Institutes
(NARIs) which was depleted as a result of severe funding decline in the 1980s.
3.  Nigeria has established 18 National Agricultural Research Institutes (NARIs) with
specific mandates covering one or several commodities, natural resources management
(soil and water), and the development of production and utilization technologies. Five of
these NARIs serve as zonal research centers with responsibilities for the improvement of
the entire farming systems in the five agricultural zones of the country where they are
located. The remaining 13 have research mandates for specific commodities in arable and
horticultural crops, forestry and tree crops, livestock, fisheries, and extension.
4.   The project objectives were to develop an institutional framework for the
improvement of research management systems so that priorities are in accordance with
national development objectives, the needs of farmers, and sustainable use of natural
resources. Complementary objectives were for the development and effective deployment
of human resources at all levels, rehabilitation of infrastructure of the NARIs, and for an
increasing emphasis on high priority research.
5.   The project was estimated to cost USD 104.1 million out of which IDA Credit was
to be USD 78.0 million, and the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) contribution USD
26.1 million. The project financing plan was for the FGN contribution to be on an
incremental basis, starting with 5% in PYI, and rising to 25% in PY 7.
6.   Although the project became disbursement effective in June 1992, loan draw-down
commenced only in 1993, and was very low up to 1995. The projected closing date was
December 1998, but after the mid-term Review in 1995, the implementation schedule
was revised . It was expected that there would be adequate IDA funds to support project
activities till June-Sept 1999, and accumulated FGN counterpart funds to support an
extension of the project up to December 31 1999. However, by April 1999, IDA credits
were already fully committed, and no further FGN counterpart funds were being
disbursed. NARP management was then compelled to suspend some critical research,
extension, training and civil works activities.
- 35 -



Overall Performance and Project Outcome
Institutional Capacity and Technology Generation
7.   The project development objectives, as well as the project management
performances were rated satisfactory at the time of project implementation completion.
The NARIs made good progress in institutional capacity building, and were strengthened
through the introduction of research management procedures for priority setting, research
program planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, and impact assessment. NARP
strengthened the (NARIs through the rehabilitation of their infrastructure, and support for
priority research programs. NARP provided support for the establishment of a Research
Extension Farrner Input Liaison Systems (REFILS).
8.  NARP supported NARIs programs for generation of technologies with emphasis on
variety improvement and release, and the enhancement of the economic value of
agricultural by-products. The technologies generated were disseminated by the
Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), and were widely adopted by farmers. NARP
contributed significantly towards the synchronization of research efforts to complement
the ADPs Unified Agricultural Extension System (UAES) activities, to enable
smallholder farm families to quickly benefit from improved agricultural technologies and
services.
9.   Significantly high adoption rates were recorded for most of the technologies, and
economic impact assessment studies showed positive impact of agricultural research on
the economy. The economic rates of returns (ERR) were 55% for improved cassava
varieties, 25.8 for improved solanum potatoes, 46% for downy mildew resistant varieties
of maize, 29% for soybeans, 14.4% for improved sorghum, and 46% for improved rubber
clones.
Project Fund Management
10. The World Bank commissioned a review of procurement in Nigeria for selected
agricultural projects, one of which was the NARP. The consultant's report submitted in
June 1999 covered verification of physical works and goods procured under several
contracts for seven of the 18 NARIs supported under NARP. The consultant reported
serious deficiencies in these procurements which included lack of appropriate
procurement planning and verification of goods and services. The consultant reported
other serious procurement management rules violations that resulted in uneconomic
procurement and lack of transparency and accountability. The report documented supply
of refurbished or used equipment, or equipment not meeting specifications or end-users
needs. It was also reported in some cases with regard to vehicles, that some arrived in a
non-functional state, and have not been commissioned or used.
11. These serious deficiencies contributed to a substantial loss of funds to government
and the project. NARP's inability to initiate some of the strategic components of the
project can be attributed in part to some of the funding shortfalls which resulted from the
highly unsatisfactory management of procurement contracts. The funding shortfalls
- 36 -



resulted in the suspension of some key civil works which had severe negative impacts on
the work of the NARIs. The procurement as well as the implementation progress
performances at project completion were therefore rated unsatisfactory. The World
Bank and the Government have exchanged correspondence with regard to appropriate
action on this matter.
Major factors affecting the project
12. Other than the serious procurement management deficiencies that have been
referred to above, the factors which affected the project include delays in the initiation of
critical components of the project and the appointment of the technical assistants and
their local counterparts. There was a high turn-over of project coordinators (six between
1993 November 1999), which impacted negatively on the project. The borrower's
performance with regard to counterpart funds was rated unsatisfactory due for the most
part to untimely release, and to their premature termination which distrupted critical
phases of NARP.
Specific project components' achievements
Research Management Systems Development
13. A national committee was established as an independent advisory body reporting
directly to the Minister of Agriculture. NACAR played an effective role in accelerating
project implementation, and provided guidance to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development's (FMARD) Directorate of Agricultural Sciences (ASD) in the
coordination of agricultural research.
NARP strengthened the research management capacity of the ASD, specifically in the
areas of agricultural research priority setting, research project planning and budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation, and information management systems.
A national agricultural research strategy plan covering a fifteen year period (1996-2010)
has been prepared. .
14. A research grants scheme was established to promote agricultural research in the
universities as well as the private sector, to ensure that these organizations become full
participants in the national agricultural research system (NARS). NARP trained the
principal investigators in project planning, monitoring and evaluation, and grants were
made to successful applicants for work to be carried out over a period of three years.
The closure of universities for long periods during the initial implementation of the
scheme and delays in releasing funds and reimbursement of expenditures resulted in low
draw-down of the RGS funds. Some of these funds were reallocated to other NARP
activities with the concurrence of the World Bank on a no-objection basis.
15. A Human Resources Development Plan was developed which provided a
comprehensive inventory of staffing profiles with technical and support staff ratios in the
NARIs. The plan also included a skills gap analysis and indications of future training
needs of the NARIs. Under the plan a capacity building program for managerial,
scientific, technical and administrative staff was initiated. Short-term local and overseas
- 37 -



training in research management, and short-terrn local group training on computer
appreciation, for both scientists and non-scientists were also provided. The long-term
academic training for M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs was initiated only in 1995, and most of
the Ph.D. candidates are yet to complete their programs. The NARIs whose staff are
currently in training and cannot complete their programs because of funding shortfall are
making contingency plans to support these staff members. Funding constraints resulted
in suspension of the training programs also that had been proposed for: library and
docunentation and computerization; administration for institutes' secretaries; use of
CAREMIS (at the NARIs) ; NCRP coordinators; NARI seed unit officers; auditors; and,
research management for newly appointed institute directors.
16. NARP recruited three specialists as advisors for research management, agricultural
research strategic planning and financial management. The advisors for research
management and strategic planning completed their assignments and departed in 1994,
while the financial management consultant's contract was extended so that he could act
as the project manager through June 1997.
The research management advisor had a national counterpart attached as an understudy
early in the assignment, but the national counterparts for the other two advisors did not
have a long enough period of attachment to maximize the benefits from on-the-job
experience.
Strengthening of NARIs
17. In spite of the major deficiencies and mismanagement in the procurement of goods
and services, a range of infrastructure rehabilitation activities was initiated. These
included civil works, and procurement of a large number of assorted equipment, vehicles,
and computers for the use of the NARIs. A major civil works undertaken, but not yet
completed, was the construction of a USD 1.9 million Central Research Laboratory
Complex which will also house the proposed ARCN. With regard to the implementation
of priority research projects (PRPs)/Nationally Coordinated Research Programs
(NCRPs). One hundred and twenty one (121) research projects in selected priority areas
were implemented by the 18 NARIs in lieu of the preparation of the NARSP. Most of
these projects became parts of the 29 NCRPs that were implemented from July 1996 on
the completion of the NARSP.
18.  Three universities of agriculture and twenty three faculties of agriculture,
veterinary medicine, international agricultural research centers, the private sector, and
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), participated in the implementation of the
NCRPs. NCRPs are now an effective mechanism for conducting applied agricultural
research, and for mobilizing the efforts of research scientists in NARIs, regional and
international institutions to address researchable problems of agricultural development. It
has become a very important mechanism for collaboration with the network of CGIAR
centers, for example, the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, the West Africa
Rice Development Association, the International Center for Research in the Semi-Arid
Tropics, the International Livestock Research Institute, the International Potato Institute,
and the International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management.
-38 -



19. NARP collaborated through the NCRPs with other agencies in the development and
release of new varieties of arable and horticultural, forest and tree crops, and provided
support for research in cattle, sheep, goat, pigs and poultry and fisheries. NARP also
provided support to socio-economics and policy research, extension research, and agro-
processing and storage technology research. Some of the processing research resulted in
the design and fabrication of various types of simple machines and implements. NARP
procured and installed seed production and processing equipment for the continuation of
work on breeder and foundation seed production under a NARP-National Seed Services
(NSS) linkage arrangement. A total nine of (9) seed units were established at the Institute
of Agricultural Research, National Crops Research Institute, Institute Of Agricultural
Research and Training, Nigerian Institute for Horticultural Research, Lake Chad
Research Institute and National Animal Production Research Institute. Boreholes were
also installed to provide for off-season seed production and multiplication.
20. The project, through the NCRPs, strengthened collaboration with private seed
companies (Premier, United Africa Company, and United Trading Company) to evaluate
the performance of improved varieties produced by the NCRPs for commercialization.
All open pollinated maize, rice, cowpeas, soybeans, sorghum and millet varieties released
by these companies were derived form NCRPs. The plans to designate and equip certain
NARIs as centers of excellence were only partially implemented. The special programs
on Integrated Pest Management, Soil and Water Management, and Environmental
Protection and Biodiversity were not initiated, but the center of excellence for seed
technology at the University of Agriculture in Makurdi was established and is providing
appropriate training for seed technologists.
21. For soil and water management, current plans are for high priority support to the
reformulated soil and water management program with emphasis on the establishment of
a Land Systems Information Center. Appropriate steps are being taken to re-establish
contact with the African Soil Fertility Initiative.
22. NARP established the Research Extension Farmer Input Linkage Systems
(REFILS) programs to improve the linkages between research and extension, and to
ensure that farmers' problems are reflected in the planning of research programs. This
research-extension network involves the five zonal coordinating institutes which provide
technical support to the Agricultural Development Programs (ADPs) for diagnostic
surveys, on-farm adaptive research and technology review meetings. The Zonal NARIs
provided training of extension agents and farmers, linkages for farmers with agricultural
input agencies, and means of transportation and supervision for extension agents. Close
cooperation with the other major stakeholders, namely the ADPs, the Local Government
Authorities and Farmers Organizations has been established to enhance the participatory
approach in the REFILS and to share running costs. The REFILS have assigned high
priority to the utilization of results from research in ecosystems management to reduce
dependence on chemical use in agricultural production, and minimize environmental
degradation.  A review of the criteria for the selection of resource persons for
participation in Technology Review Meetings is proposed to ensure that they have the
appropriate applied research and technology generation experience.
- 39 -



Future Operations
23. NARP has developed a concept paper proposing follow-up actions as part of a
seven year project, to ensure continuity and sustenance of the achievements during this
current phase. NARP proposes a focus on technology generation for poverty alleviation
especially within rural communities. In addition, the NARIs have prepared operational
plans for an interim project implementation phase for the period 2000-2002 with a
breakdown of the financial requirements for the target activities. The Agricultural
Research Council of Nigeria which will have executive powers is to replace the NACAR,
and is expected to greatly facilitate the implementation of the activities proposed in the
concept paper and the transition phase.
24. A high priority of the ARCN, once it is constituted, will be to review the short, and
long-term plans for agricultural research, and to provide the leadership in prioritizing
these activities. The ARCN will work closely with the FMARD to formulate strategies
for the long-term sustainability of the financial support for agricultural research. The
ARCN will also review the current NARP Headquarters/Secretariat staff, with a view to
deciding on their eventual deployment. The ARCN may wish to undertake a
comprehensive review of staffing patterns, skills mix, performance levels and relevant
qualification of agricultural research and development staff for the effective
implementation of the next phase of the NARSP. In activating the ARCN, it is important
to ensure that the link between agricultural research and the policy making machinery
within the FMARD that is currently provided through the ASD is not lost, and that the
chairperson and executive secretary be nationals with proven technical and management
competence, and substantial political leverage.
25.  The proposals for biotechnology in the recent (February-May 1999) biotechnology
consultant's study report is to be further reviewed for incorporation in a revised NARSP,
and a review of the skills mix required for biotechnology research will be determined. In
view of the rapid advances relating to genetically modified organisms, appropriate steps
will be taken to provide access to procedures to assess the risks and benefits of
biotechnology for use in agricultural research, and the guidelines on biosafety for Nigeria
developed in 1994 will be updated.
NARP and agricultural research systems sustainability
26. For the immediate future, agricultural research will continue to depend on public
funding support. The current situation is such that the NARIs which were supported by
NARP are not in a position to generate adequate funding internally to maintain the
infrastructures, vehicles and equipment procured with NARP funds. Sustainability of this
project in particular and institutional sustainability of the Nigerian agricultural research
system in general, is threatened if public funding is not increased and more efficiently
managed in the future. A resource mobilization strategy is required with various options
for sources of financing. The strategy may include an assessment of how funding sources
may be diversified given the multi-sectoral dimensions of agricultural research, and its
strong relationships with agricultural development. The potentials for commercialization
must also be considered, given the diverse mandates of the NARIs. The scope for
public/private sector partnerships to finance agricultural research may be assessed, and
- 40 -



the role of farmers' organizations in supporting agricultural research both in an advocacy
and research financing capacity should be assessed.
Conclusions
27. Government operations are currently in a transitional phase, and new initiatives for
policy revisions and formulation of new action plans for key sectors and sub-sectors of
the economy are being proposed. There are prospects also for action to rationalize the
activities of the various agencies addressing food security and poverty alleviation
problems. The mission therefore recommends that the Bank maintain close contact and
continuing dialogue with the Honorable Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development,
and establish a mechanism to assess progress on these important initiatives.
-41 -



BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1. INTRODUCTION
1.  In view of a rapidly increasing population and a deteriorating natural resource (soil,
water, forest) base, the long-term Perspective study on Africa, Managing Agricultural
Development in Africa (MADIA) study and the Nigerian Strategy for Agricultural
Growth (Report No. 7988-UNI) have all emphasized the crucial role of research and need
to strengthen the agricultural growth essential to food security, foreign exchange
generation and provide gainful employment for the rural population. However, this was
seen as a long-term undertaking which can only be accomplished in carefully planned
stages with strong commitment and sustained support from the Government and the
donors. The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) would represent the first
stage of the long-term to develop an institutional framework and improve the research
management systems, so that priorities are in accordance with national development
objectives, needs of farmers and sustainable use of natural resource base. The
development and effective deployment of human resources at all levels was an important
objective of the project. Other objectives included the rehabilitation of infrastructure of
research institutes' support for high priority research to increase availability of
appropriate technologies for the main farming systems and strengthening of research-
extension linkages.
2.   The National Agricultural Research System (NARS), consisting of 18 National
Agricultural Research Institutes (NARIs), 3 Universities of Agriculture and 23 faculties
of agriculture and veterinary medicine in regular universities, has responsibility for
research aimed at improving agricultural productivity and achieving sustainable
agricultural development in Nigeria. Each of the 18 NARIs has specific research
mandates covering soils and water management, genetic improvement, development of
production and processing technologies for arable, horticultural, forestry and tree crops,
livestock, fisheries and farming systems. During the late 1980s, funding for agricultural
research was at its lowest ebb, declining from a high USDI80.0m in 1980 to a low
USD1 8m in 1990. The resulting funding crisis led to severe shortage of operating funds,
high staff turnover and low morale for the remaining staff and crippling of most of the
activities of the NARIs, including rapid depreciation of available infrastructure and
laboratory equipment. Against this background, the National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP) was conceived as a first-stage of the long-term strategy to revitalize the
agricultural research management system and rebuild the research capacity of the
research institutes.
3.   NARP was prepared in 1990 with the assistance of the World Bank. The IDA
Credit No. 2261-UNI was negotiated between the World Bank and the Federal
Government of Nigeria in 1991. The Credit provided SDR58.5 million, equivalent to
USD78.0 million, representing 75% of the total project cost. The balance of USD26.1
million or 25% was to be provided by the Federal Government of Nigeria. The project
was approved on June 11, 1991 and the Credit Agreement signed on December 6, 1991.
It was to be implemented over a seven-year period, 1992 to 1998 but was extended by
one year, to December 1999 due to initial slow project take-off.
- 42 -



Objectives
4.   The main objectives of the project as stated in the SAR and project documents were
to (i) develop an institutional framework and improve research management system in
Nigeria, (ii) develop and effectively deploy human resources at all levels and (iii)
rehabilitate and strengthen the agricultural research infrastructure, including support high
priority research and research-extension linkages.
Project Description
5.   The project was implemented over an eight year (December 6, 1991 to December
31, 1999) with the following two major components for achieving project objectives.
(a) Research Systems Development which included:
i. Establishment and support for the operations of a National Advisory Committee
for Agricultural Research (NACAR);
ii. Strengthening the Agricultural Sciences Department (ASD) in FMST (now in
FMARD) to provide a Secretariat for NACAR and the development of
research management procedures, and information system which will
enhance the capability to coordinate, plan and manage research;
iii. Preparation of a medium and long-term National Agricultural Research Strategy
Plan;
iv. Development of Research Grant Scheme (RGS);
v. Establishment of a systematic human resource development programme; and
vi. Technical Assistance.
(b) Strengthening of the Research Institutes consisting of:
i. Infrastructure rehabilitation;
ii. Research programme undertaken by institutes in agreed priority areas; and
iii. Strengthening the research-extension linkage programme.
ORGANIZATION AND PROJECT COORDINATION
6.   The loan covenants meant to facilitate the achievements of project objectives included
(i) establishment of NACAR and maintenance of its Secretariat; (ii) preparation of the
National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan (NARSP) and the Human Resources
Development Plan (HRDP); (iii) designation of related research institutes as centres of
excellence and agreement with at least 3 universities for training of staff at the faculties of
agriculture; (iv) establishment of project review panels to undertake review of research
institutes; (v) operation of an agricultural research management information system and
engagement of 3 internationally recruited advisors for research management, research
planning and financial management; (vi) conduct of mid-tern review of the project; and (vii)
- 43 -



management of NVRI vaccine production by an independent commercial company. These
were in addition to the covenants dealing with the opening and maintenance of special and
project accounts, auditing, procurement procedures, preparation of annual agricultural
research programme and provision of adequate counterpart funds. Most of the covenants
were complied with by the Borrower.
PROJECT FINANCING
7.   The project was estimated to cost USD104.1 million out of which IDA Credit was to
be USD78.0 million and the FGN contribution USD26.1 million. Project financing plan was
such that the FGN contribution would be on incremental basis, starting with 5% in PY1 and
rising to 25% in PY7. Although the project became disbursement effective in June 1992,
loan draw down commenced only in 1993 and was very low up to 1995. Total draw-down
between 1993 and 1995 was USD21.45 million as against the original SAR target of
USD57.5 million, representing only 37%. Among the reasons for the low loan utilization
during the early years were inadequate FGN counterpart funding, lack of trained staff
conversant with the IBRD procurement procedures and the large number of the NARIs and
the task of meeting their peculiar requirement through central procurement. In addition there
was the problem of late submission of SOEs and difficulty in operating special dollar account
by the NARls. Most of these problems were overcome after the mid-term Review in 1995
when a project facilitation training workshop was conducted for all the implementing Units
of NARP. Accelerated loan draw-down was achieved between 1996 and 1998. Total draw-
down as at time of the ICR Mission was approximately USD77.5 million representing about
99% of the total IDA Credit of USD78.0 million.
8.  In terms of category-wise utilization, a high proportion of the IDA Credit was spent on
plants, vehicles, equipment and spares (63% as against the revised target of 53%). The other
categories over-drawn include civil works (7.25% against revised target of 6.5%), technical
assistance and studies (10.42% against 9.18%) and the National Research Strategy Plan
(0.79% against 0.64%). The Priority Research Programme, the Research Grant Scheme and
Training components were under-funded.
9.   The FGN counterpart funding was very low during the first half of the project period.
Between 1992 and 1995 FGN contribution was USD1.69 million or 18% of the SAR target of
USD9.3 million. The provision for incremental contribution by FGN was reviewed
downward during implementation because of the difficulty in obtaining FGN counterpart
funds. The total FGN contribution at the time of the ICR mission was USD9.2 million
compared to the appraisal target of USD26.1 million. About 94% of the FGN counterpart
funds were received in two years, 1996 and 1998. Low and irregular FGN contribution
adversely affected the civil works (some of which have remained uncompleted at the end of
project) and research implementation. Many of the SOEs submitted by the NARIs since
September 1998 are yet to be fully reimbursed.
PROJECT OUTCOME
10.  Project take-off was very slow and loan draw-down was low until the mid-term review
in 1995. The slow take-off was attributed to several reasons among which were lack of
trained personnel conversant with implementation procedures and procurement guidelines of
the World Bank, late assumption of duty of key management and technical staff and
- 44 -



inadequate financial and logistic support. Project implementation commenced fully only in
1994 with the procurement of some vehicles, equipment and the initiation of 121 Priority
Research Programmes (PRPs) and 95 Research-Extension-Farmer-Input Linkage System
(REFILS) projects. The preparation of the National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan
(NARSP) was initiated in mid-1994 and completed in 1996. Following the formulation of
the long-term National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan (NARSP) 1996 - 2010, the
Nationally Coordinated Research Programme (NCRP) approach was adopted for the
implementation of research activities of the NARS. All uncompleted PRPs were subsumed
into the NCRPs beginning from July 1996. A total of 29 NCRPs covering various
commodities or specific research areas were conducted by the NARIs. Research Institutes
were appointed to coordinate particular programmes based on their national mandate while
other institutes and universities working on similar research areas serve as joint coordinating
institutes or collaborating institutions. Fourteen of the NCRPs are on arable and horticultural
crops, six on forestry and tree crops, four on livestock, two on fisheries, two on extension and
policy research and one on soil and water management. The details of project achievements
are presented under the major components: (a) Research Systems Development and (b)
Strengthening of Research Institutes.
RESEARCH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
11.  The objective of strengthening the research management capacity of the national
research system was substantially achieved. The major achievements of the component are
discussed under following sub-headings: National Advisory Committee for Agricultural
Research (NACAR); Agricultural Sciences Department (ASD)/NACAR Secretariat;
Research Management System; National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan (NARSP); the
Research Grant Scheme (RGS); Human Resources Development and Technical Assistance.
National Advisory Committee on Agricultural Research (NACAR)
12. The NACAR was established in 1992 as recommended in the SAR with membership
drawn from government, private sector, research institutes, universities, farmers'
organizations and NGOs under the chairmanship of a seasoned agriculturalist and
administrator of international repute and reporting directly to the Honorable Minister of
Agriculture. During the implementation period, NACAR met 21 times and provided
effective leadership and guidance on various aspects to project implementation. The body
was assisted by five technical sub-committees on arable and horticultural crops, forestry and
tree crops, livestock, fisheries and extension - research and training. The technical sub-
committee on soil and water management and a working committee on women in-agricultural
research were constituted in 1998. NACAR was dissolved in November 1998 at the
completion of two terms as provided for in the SAR. A new Committee was constituted in
May 1999.
13. As envisaged in the SAR, a body known as the Agricultural Research Council of
Nigeria (ARCN) was established by Decree 44 of May 26, 1999 to coordinate and manage
the National Agricultural Research System. When it becomes functional, the ARCN will
-45 -



replace NACAR as a permanent body for the management of agricultural research in the
country.
ASD and NACAR Secretariat
14.  The objective of strengthening the ASD to provide support to NACAR was achieved.
NACAR Secretariat was established within the ASD initially under the direct supervision of
a Deputy Director and later a Project Manager under the overall supervision of the Director,
ASD. The Secretariat was strengthened through recruitment of long-term and short-term
consultants who provided technical and management support in critical areas, provision of
vehicles, computers, communication equipment, office accommodation and library facilities.
The Programme Manager (PM) assisted by six Heads of Unit (who are Secretaries to the
Technical sub-Committees of NACAR); Heads of Unit of Research Management, Finance,
Administration and Procurement formed the nucleus of staff of the Secretariat which
provided operational and technical support to NACAR.  They assisted in project
implementation, coordinated the research management system, reported on progress of
project implementation, administered the RGS, coordinated the preparation of NARSP and
Human Resources Development Plan (HRDP). However, critical staff vacancies at senior
and middle levels still exist and the project was unable to implement NACAR and World
Bank Supervision Mission recommendations for additional staff recruitment because of
government embargo on employment. With the exit of most of the long-termn and short-term
consultants and the lack of effective succession plan in place, the effective functioning of
NACAR Secretariat in the post-project period is threatened.
Research Management System
15.  Research management procedures with respect to priority setting, planning,
programming and budgeting were developed and institutionalized at both NARP
Headquarters and the NARIs. Current Agricultural Research Management Information
System (CAREMIS) was developed and made operational at NARP Headquarters but its full
implementation at the NARIs level is yet to be accomplished. In the absence of Governing
Boards envisaged in the SAR, each NARI constituted NARP Implementation Committee
comprising the Director, the Project Officer, Disbursement Officer and Senior Management
staff who are in-charge of the day-to-day administration of NARP activities. Annual planning
and review meetings were held at the beginning of each year by all the NARIs to discuss and
prioritize research activities based on budgetary provisions. The nationally coordinated
research programme approach involving active collaboration in research efforts among
research institutes, universities ADPs, government agencies, international and regional
research organizations and NGOs has become a feature of the national research system.
National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan
16. The NARSP was prepared as envisaged in the SAR, although about two years behind
schedule. Preparation of NARSP was a major activity implemented by the project between
1994 and 1996, coordinated by an internationally recruited consultant working with multi-
disciplinary teams of local consultants and with active participation of all agricultural stake-
- 46 -



holders from the private and public sectors. The plan contains both medium and long-term
research goals for Nigeria covering a 15-year period, 1996 - 2010. Since its completion in
1996, the NARSP has been the basic reference document for planning annual and medium-
term research programmes for the NARIs.
Research Grant Scheme
17. A Research Grant Scheme (RGS) was established by NARP in 1995 (three years
behind schedule). 34 projects were approved, with funds and equipment provided by NARP.
The late commencement of the RGS had to do with the general slow start of the project and
long process of advertising, screening and approval of research proposals. The beneficiaries
were mostly scientists from universities and some private individuals who had been found to
have the requisite expertise to undertake such research. NARP Headquarters coordinated
implementation and carried out a comprehensive review by the third year. Based on the
review, nineteen projects were rated satisfactory with 70% - 80% completion, while fifteen
were rated average with 40% - 69% of set targets achieved. Major research accomplishments
recorded under the scheme included (i) the identification of soil microarthropods hitherto
unknown in Nigerian soils as indicators of changes of Biodiversity in the agricultural zones,
(ii) development of organic based fertilizer for Nigerian soils from composted farm wastes
fortified with Sokoto rock phosphate, (iii) development of simple process for producing high
quality fruit jam from African plum and African star apple without chemical additives and
(iv) the use of Vesicula-Arbuscular Mycorrhizal (VAM) inoculation and Gliricidia mulching
to increase maize crop yield. The loan draw-down for RGS component was very low, USD
0.843 million or 27% of the revised target of USD3.069 million. The main factors that
affected the implementation of the RGS were (i) slow take-off, (ii) inadequate funding, (iii)
industrial unrests in the universities, (iv) delay in submission of SOEs by beneficiaries, and
(v) inadequate supervision from NARP headquarters.
Human Resources Development
18.  The SAR provided for the training of four categories of staff in the agricultural
research system: managerial, scientific, technical and administrative support staff. The
implementation of the training component of NARP was very slow with no achievement
recorded during the first two years of the project. The most significant achievements of the
HRD component were in short-term local and overseas training in research management,
short-term local group training on computer appreciation for both scientists and non-
scientists and instrumentation maintenance training for technicians and technologists. Most
of the senior management staff (Assistant Director level or equivalent and above) in all the
institutes attended one form of research management training or the other between 1994 and
1997. The trainings were found to have positively impacted on the management of research
programmes in the NARIs. A total of 347 staff of the NARIs attended overseas training
visits, conferences, workshops and study attachment during the project period while 676 staff
were trained locally in computer appreciation, research management, computerised
accounting system, varietal maintenance and breeder seed production technology and audio-
visuals. The computer appreciation training was judged as the most successful of all the
post-HRDP training programmes. As a result of the training, most of the institutes' scientific
staff have now become computer literate and can process and analyse their data.
-47 -



19.  The long long-termn academic training for M.Sc. and Ph.D. courses took off only in
1995 and were less successful. Out of 224 approved in the training plan for the NARIs
between 1995 and 1999, only 112 (or about 50%) received NARP sponsorship so far. Most
of the Ph.D. candidates were yet to complete their programme at the end of the project. The
1998 and 1999 training plans were adversely affected by the general cash-squeeze facing the
Project. Some of the approved trainings which could not be conducted due to funding
constraints include (i) library documentation and computerisation, (ii) administration for
institutes' secretaries, (iii) use of CAREMIS, (iv) NCRPs coordinators, (v) NARI breeder
seed unit officers, (vi) auditors and (vii) research management for newly appointed institute
Directors.
20. The major causes of the slow implementation of the training component were the
delay in the completion of human resources development plan and skill-gap analysis,
delayed ministerial approval and slow response of the institutes to requests by NARP
management for training nominations and documentation. The skill-gap analysis was
concluded in 1994 while the training plan was completed in 1996 and approved only in
1997.
Technical Assistance
21. The project provided for three internationally recruited Advisors - Research
Management Systems, National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan (NARSP) and Finance.
All the three Advisors came on board in 1994 and provided the required expertise in NARSP,
research management systems development and financial management. The Research
Management Advisor and the NARSP Advisor left in 1997 while the Financial Management
Advisor's contract was extended to June 1999 following his appointment as the Acting
Project Manager from April 1997. Altogether, 133 man-months were spent by the Advisors
against 84 man-months specified in the SAR. Some local consultants were also recruited at
various times on short-termn consultancies. The internationally recruited staff have assisted in
the development of counterpart staff professional skills.
STRENGTHENING OF RESEARCH INSTITUTES
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
22. A total amount of USD42.6 million was earmarked in the SAR to fund urgent
rehabilitation of infrastructure and facilities in the NARIs. The component was successfully
implemented with a large number of assorted equipment, vehicles, computers and laboratory
facilities, procured and supplied to the NARIs. A total of 909 assorted vehicles, 253 motor
cycles, 342 computers/accessories, 127 generators, 157 airconditioners, 76 photocopying
machines, 116 typewriters and 38,436 assorted laboratory equipment and various quantities
of office equipment and facilities were procured. Others include 107 meteorological
equipment, 149 breeding equipment, 26 projectors, 31 video recorders and 62 assorted
extension equipment. With respect to civil works, 28 boreholes were sunk, seven categories
of rehabilitation and construction works were undertaken in the NARIs in addition to the
- 48 -



construction of two Research laboratories. Many of the civil works projects are at various
stages of completion. The problem of inadequate and irregular counterpart funding delayed
the commencement and completion of the planned civil works activities. Most of the civil
works were started after the MTR.
23.  The upgrading of research information system was achieved through rehabilitation of
institutes' libraries, procurement of books and resumption of subscription to scientific
journals, the development and installation of the CAREMIS in the NARIs. The project
procured a total of 3212 book titles and 889 journal titles for the NARIs. However, books
and journals subscriptions to the NARIs stopped since 1997 with the initiation of the central
library information system. Facilities and equipment including computers with CD-ROM for
the centralised library system and computerised research information system have been
procured. These will be installed in the NARP Headquarters and the NARIs.
24. Based on the recommendations of the MTR, an extensive review of NARIs sub-
stations and experimental sites was undertaken. The recommendation of the review panel to
reduce the number of sub-stations from 93 to 44 sub-stations and 33 experimental sites is
being implemented.
Procurement
25.  NARP operated a centrally coordinated procurement system. The procurement process
was initially saddled with long delays in procurement of goods and services due to lack of
trained staff conversant with the World Bank procurement procedures and delays in the
release of counterpart fund. There was also initially, a weak linkage between the NARP
Headquarters Procurement office and the NARIs in meeting up with specifications and
standards of procured items. These initial setbacks were however overcome after Mid-Term
Review when a NARP/NARI committee was established to advise on specifications and
distribution of laboratory equipment. Consequently, procurement was accelerated and most
of the planned equipment and facilities were procured. However, some of the procured
equipment are yet to be installed and made operational in the NARIs because either structures
to house them are not ready or funds for installation are not available. Generally, civil works
were implemented late and in some cases yet to be completed.
Priority Research Projects/Nationally Coordinated Research Programmes
26. Implementation of NARP funded programmes commenced in 1994 with the initiation
of 121 priority research projects (PRPs) in the NARIs. The PRPs were conceived as interim
research projects pending the completion of the NARSP. The NARSP was completed in
1996 and provided the framework for the NCRP implementation. All uncompleted PRPs
were subsumed into 24 initial NCRPs, later increased to 29, which were implemented by a
network of NARIs, universities, IARCs, ADPs, NGOs and private sector. Apart from delay
in the take-off, the implementation of the priority research programmes under the PRPs and
NCRPs suffered from inadequate funding due to delay in reimbursement of SOEs, and the
resultant delay in or non-execution of field activities, lack of staff in some key technical
areas, late procurement of laboratory equipment and inadequate supervision from NARP
headquarters.  These notwithstanding, significant achievements were recorded in the
implementation of the research programmes. The major achievements are summarised below
under the following sub-sectors: arable and horticultural crops, forestry and tree crops,
- 49 -



livestock, fisheries, soil and water management, socio-economic policy, and agro-processing
and storage technologies.
Arable and Horticultural Crops
27. Research into the arable and horticultural crops was coordinated by six research
institutes (LCRI, IAR, NCRI, IAR&T, NRCRI and NIHORT) with responsibility for
genetic improvement of major arable crops, development and introduction of improved
production packages and pest control technologies as well as development of simple and
affordable agro-processing machines to be taken up for mass production. Fifty-three (53)
priority research projects under arable and horticultural crops were initiated in 1994 with
those uncompleted PRPs dovetailing into the 14 NCRPs under the sub-sector.
28.  Major achievements recorded in arable and horticultural crops research implementation
include amongst others, development and release of eight varieties of sorghum with good
food and malting qualities and yield advantages of 250-375%. Three cowpea varieties that
are resistant to Striga/Alectra, insect pests and diseases have been released. Downy mildew
and striga resistant maize open-pollinated varieties yielding 2-3 tons/ha earlier developed
were popularised for control of the diseases in endemic areas. A rice variety FARO51 that is
highly tolerant to devastating African rice gall midge (AfRGM), a heat tolerant wheat variety
LACRIWHIT- 1 yielding 4-5 tons/ha in farmers plots, and six widely adapted free nodulating
and shattering resistant soyabean varieties have also been released. Improved varieties ready
for release include four low-cyanide and pest resistant cassava varieties (TMS71762,
TMS00447, TMS00033 and NR84292), 2 early maturing millet varieties SOSAT-C88 and
GB8735 with yield advantage of 250-280% over local varieties, 4 okra lines including the
spineless LD88 which is good for export, 3 plantain and two banana selections that are
resistant to black sigatoka disease. Some of these are already being grown by farmers in
areas where on-farm testing were conducted in their selection process.
29.  The development of many new varieties of crops resistant to various diseases, pests
and environmental stresses has led to improved productivity and yield of such crops.
Generally, most of the research objectives in the sub-sector were achieved with adoption
rates of above 50% recorded in many of the improved varieties in various studies conducted.
Forestry and Tree Crops
30.  The Forestry and Tree Crops sub-sector has six NCRPs - Forestry/Agro-Forestry,
Sericulture and Wildlife coordinated by FRIN, Cocoa, Oil-palm and Rubber coordinated by
CRIN, NIFOR and RRIN respectively, and involving twenty-seven collaborating institutions.
CRIN also conducts research on Kola, cashew, Coffee and Tea, NIFOR on other palms and
RRIN on gum arabic.
31.  Achievements recorded in the sub-sector include selection, development of rapid
multiplication methods and distribution of six popular savanna multi-purpose tree species
such as Parkia biglobosa, useful for food, fodder and medicinal purposes. Backyard methods
of rearing cane rats and giant African snails were developed and popularised. Selection of
cocoa accessions that show resistance to Phytophthora pod rot disease and capsids have
resulted in "CRIN ELITES" clones with yields of 1800 - 3000 kg/ha/year compared with
- 50 -



yields of about 450 kg/ha/year by Amelonado clones hitherto grown in Nigeria. Fresh seeds
of oil-palm and sprouted nuts of superior materials of second cycle breeding populations
yielding 20-25 ffb/hectare (25% higher yielding than existing EWS 4 variety are being
supplied to farners. Budded stumps of improved rubber clones NG800 and NG900 series
with yields of 2,500 - 3,500 kg/ha/year dry rubber compared with 300 - 400kg/ha/yr. Have
also been produced to meet farmers' demand.
32. Improved technologies and rapid method of producing planting materials in forestry
and tree crops have resulted in appreciable increase in quantity of planting materials in some
cases above immediate farmers' demand.
Livestock
33. A total of 14 PRPs later subsumed in 4 NCRPs were implemented in the sub-sector
coordinated by 3 research institutes (NAPRI, NVRI and NITR). Cattle, sheep, goat, pigs and
poultry were the main focus of the project under the sub-sector.
34.  Livestock research under the project sets out to improve the productivity potentials of
various breeds and types of livestock and poultry found by natural selection in various zones
and improve their adaptation to other areas in the country. It also aims at the identification of
feed resources to expand the spectrum of feed ingredients, evaluation and dissemination of
optimal nutritional requirements, genetic improvement, pasture seed development, control of
diseases as well as improved management practices.
35. The main achievements were in the promotion of the techniques of artificial
insemination as a tool for breeding, development of NAPRI "Shika Brown" parent layers,
multi-locational testing of commercial layers for adoption of high performance day-old
chicks, adaptation of quails to 4 out of 5 agricultural zones in Nigeria as well as efforts to
develop a local technique for hatching ostrich eggs. Existing dairy production systems are
boing improved through strategic supplementation of lactating cows with dual purpose
legume forages like lab-lab or groundnut haulms which can increase milk yield in critical
dry season periods by as much as 100%. Six forage grasses and 12 forage legumes have
been selected, multiplied and distributed for commercial cultivation and range
management. These have also enhanced small-holder fattening schemes for cattle and
enhanced farmer income from improved pasture seed production and distribution.
Furthermore, small-scale milk processing techniques have also been developed with
capacity for processing 200 litres of milk/day into yoghurt, butter and cheese as well as a
milk churning equipment to improve the consistency, flavour and shelf-life of yoghurt.
36.  For disease control measures, 3 local herbs have been identified for possible control of
coccidiosis in chickens, attenuation of PPR virus for vaccine production, local formulation
for the control of dermatophilosis, a common animal skin disease in cattle, in addition to
pharmaceutical preparations for control of coccidiosis. A Other chievements include the
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) for the tse-tse and trypanosomiasis using a combination
of traps, chemical attractants, insecticide impregnated screens and chemotherapy employed to
reduce tse-tse population to 5% in riverine areas of Niger State. Peste des petits ruminantes
(PPR) homologous vaccine for sheep and goats and FMD vaccines were developed and
successfully tested in the field. Many other vaccines are also under various stages of
development and quality assessment. These include goat and sheep pox vaccine, lumpy skin
disease vaccine and Mereks disease vaccine.
- 51 -



Fisheries
37.  Research on fisheries deals with marine and freshwater fisheries and encompasses both
capture and aquaculture fishing systems. A total of two NCRPs were implemented in the
sub-sector and coordinated by two institutes (NIOMR and NIFFR). A major thrust of
research is in a stock assessment of various species in all the agro-ecological zones. Other
research areas include the development of fingerling production, identification of alternative
fish feed sources, selection of proper gear and on-farm evaluation of the 'Magbon-Alade'
smoking kiln.
38.  Major achievements were in the development of a hybrid catfish that records 2kg
within ten months compared to its parents H. Iongifilis and C. angularis that grow only to
900gm and 250gm respectively within the same period. Four new lines of fast growing
hybrid catfish have been developed. An indigenous zooplankton Moina micrura common in
freshwaters in Nigeria has been identified and mass produced for feeding of lavae and fry of
catfishes and other hybrids in hatcheries and ponds has commenced. This break-through has
successfully replaced the need for imported Artemia zooplankton.  An internationally
acceptable Turtle Excluder Device (TED) was designed and fabricated for Nigeria's shrimp
industry prompting the United States of America to lift an earlier ban on shrimp importation
from Nigeria.
39.  A cost-effective diet (fish feed) for aquaculture was developed for South East zone
using wheat bran, blood meal and palm kernel cake to obtain 4 - 6 tons/hectare/year from a
polyculture of C. gariepinus and Tilapia. 'Magbon-Alade' fish smoking kiln was improved
upon to make it acceptable by reducing batch time from 18 to 4 hours. This has positively
impacted on labour productivity in fish smoking.
Soil and Water Management
40.  The soil and water management research received little attention under NARP until
1997 when Medium-Term Research Plan (MTRP) on soil/water management research was
fornulated as part of the Soil Fertility Initiative for sub-Saharan Africa. NACAR has also
created a Technical Sub-Committee on Soil and Water Management as part of new emphasis
being given to Sustainable Land Management (SLM) and Soil Fertility Initiative (SFI) for
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). One NCRP with twelve research themes covering soil and water
management, soil/water conservation, soil fertility management and land evaluation is being
implemented with IAR&T as the national coordinating NARI and the five zonal NARIs
serving as zonal coordinating institutes. A framework for monitoring soil and water
management research has been developed using the matrix approach for identifying high
priority projects and community participation. A Land Information Network Office (LINO) is
being established at IAR&T. This will include the provision of hardware and software on
GIS and other relevant information for sustainable land management.
Agro-processing and Storage
41   Given the wide variety of crops and livestock produced in Nigeria, the drudgery of
many post-harvest operations, especially for women, and the challenges of storing and
transporting food products over a long distance in a tropical climate, NARP provided
support to FIRRO and NSPRI in addition to the research programmes of several other
- 52 -



institutes' agro-processing and storage technologies research. Various types of simple
and affordable machines and implements were designed, fabricated, tested and promoted
for indigenous mass production and dissemination. Such machines include the brown
sugar processing plant, groundnut shedder, small-scale processing equipment for oil-
palm, ginger splitting machine and multipurpose dryers to mention a few. A diffused
light store structure for Irish "seed" potato, vegetable basket for keeping leaf vegetable
fresh and fruit transporting crates have been improved upon and their use promoted.
42.  The popularisation of soybean through the development of local soybean-based
products, is one of the major success stories of Nigerian agriculture in the past decade. Under
NARP, promotion of different soybean recipes has led to increased local trading of soybean
food products with attendant improvement in nutritional status of many Nigerians. Several of
these products are targeted at infants and school children.
Socio-Economic Policy
43.  The overall objective was to initiate a pro-active policy research expected to provide
information to the policy-makers with a view to ensuring that the year-to-year macro-
economic and sector-specific policies promote agricultural production and development.
NISER and collaborating institutions (Central Bank of Nigeria and National Planning
Commission), carried out one research theme: "Characterisation of Socio-Economic Factors
Influencing the Demand for Locally Produced Agricultural Raw Materials by Industrial
Enterprises." The findings which have been published into a book, reveal that although the
much desired linkages between agriculture and industry have been established in Nigeria,
such linkages are weak and rudimentary.
Extension Research
44.  Studies on the effectiveness of communication channels found the radio to be one of
the most effective mass media for dissemination of agricultural technologies. Adoption
studies on crop mixtures, Crop Residue with Urea (CRU) process, labour saving devices and
some newly released agricultural practices found that extension agents and
neighbours/friends were the most commonly cited sources of information of improved
technologies, thus underscoring their importance.
Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
45.  Although the SAR did not provide specifically for support for seed production in the
NARls, observations and recommendations during the MTR on non-implementation of
certain seed selected activities under NSQP (Loan No. 31 83-UNI) necessitated the
continuation of these activities under a NARP - NSS linkage. Nine (9) seed Units were
established and strengthened in six strategic NARIs (IAR, NCRI, IAR&T, NIHORT, LCRI
and NAPRI) for the purpose of breeder and foundation seeds production. Seed production
and processing equipment were procured, and installed with boreholes provided for
irrigation. Tractors, implements, and vehicles were also supplied. Consultants were
appointed to guide the take-off of the Units while NSS staff in conjunction with NARP
monitored the seed Units operational activities to ensure quantity and quality. Seed
production has increased significantly as a result of NARP intervention with the
establishment of the NARIs seed units in 1996. Breeder seed production increased by nine-
- 53 -



folds between 1995 and 1997, while foundation seed production increased by two-folds in
1996.
Establishment of Centres of Excellence at NARIs
46.  A provision to designate and equip certain institutes as centres of excellence was
partially achieved. NIHORT and NCRI were identified for Integrated Pest Management,
IAR&T for Soil and Water Management, while FRIN was identified for Environmental
Protection and Bio-diversity. The University of Agriculture, Makurdi although not one of the
NARIs was designated and equipped as a centre of excellence for training in seed technology
development.
Research Extension Farmer Input Linkage System (REFILS)
47.  In order to address the problems of weak linkage between research and extension and
ensure that farmers' problems are reflected in the planning of research programmes, the SAR
provided the sum of USD13.4 million to support REFILS activities. The component was
successfully implemented and a strong linkage has been established between research and
extension.
48.  The research-extension network system involved the five zonal coordinating institutes
(IAR, IAR&T, LCRI, NCRI and NRCRI), FACU, NAERLS, NARls/Universities who
provide technical support to the ADPs in diagnostic surveys, OFAR and MTRMs. The
project funded the activities of 95 REFILS programmes implemented in the 18 NARls. It
also provided equipment and vehicles to collaborating institutions (37 ADPs, FACU and
APMEU) to facilitate their participation in OFAR programmes, MTRM, diagnostic surveys,
workshops/conferences and adoption/impact assessment studies (Table 5C). During project
period the NARI staff participated in 1684 MTRMs/QTRMs, 70 diagnostic surveys, 1957
OFAR trials and 225 workshops, seminars and conferences. Twenty-one pilot adopted
villages were established for the purpose of OFAR and technology demonstrations and mass
adoption of improved technologies. Radio and TV programmes were conducted while many
extension publications were distributed. An Agricultural Calendar has been produced for
each agricultural zone and is being used at the Technology Review meetings by the ADPs
and NARls.
49. NAERLS, which coordinates the NCRP on Extension Research also coordinated and
aired 1,349 programmes on various technologies on radio and 78 on TV. It coordinated the
conduct of adoption studies on some released technologies and evaluated the effectiveness of
some extension methods. Extension programmes on commercialisable research findings in
the NARIs have been produced for airing on regional radios and television stations.
50. Effective linkages have been developed and strengthened among NARIs and ADPs,
FACU, APMEU, TCU and private organizations/NGOs. NARIs implementation of adopted
villages concept has facilitated early adoption of new technologies and strengthened the
linkage with farming communities. The NARP intervention has ensured a coordinated
approach to research-extension linkages under REFILS, encouraged scientists participation in
extension activities in line with T&V extension management. It has also ensured that
recommended messages are based on proven technologies derived from on-farm research.
- 54 -



51.  Farmer involvement in research has been further enhanced through assistance to
farmers to identify problems at diagnostic stage, participation in relevant workshops,
provision of land, labour and participation in evaluation of on-farm research in adopted
villages, execution of OFAR with guidance of extension, implementation of SPAT, and
feedback of farmers' reactions through joint field visits, block meetings and FNTs to
research. The project enabled agricultural research to respond to priority farming systems
problems.
Research Institutes - Universities Linkages
52. During the project implementation, linkages with NARIs and Universities were
strengthened with greater collaboration. The NCRP approach with the involvement of
University scientists, their representation in NACAR, involvement of scientists in RGS and
in financing activities, greatly improved and strengthened linkages among the institutes and
universities. NARP supported the development of Seed Technology Programme of UAM
with equipment and Training of staff in addition to provision of equipment, computers and
vehicles to many Universities to support improved research. However, the SAR provision to
identify and equip at least 3 faculties of agriculture as centres of excellence for post-graduate
training was not implemented.
International and Regional Collaboration
53. Linkages with key international centres dealing with Nigeria's main crops and
livestock have also been strengthened. Linkages and participation in international research
programmes, acquisition of germplasm and training continued throughout implementation
period. Collaborative partnerships have been established by NVRI with FAO, CIRAD and
others for development of vaccines and diagnostic services as well as collaboration with
FAO/IAEA to complete an External Quality Assurance Programmes which earned the
institute recognition for use of the ELISA techniques for rinderpest diagnosis and serology.
Similar collaboration and partnerships which have produced significant achievements have
also been undertaken by NIFOR, RRIN, NAPRI, NCRI, IAR&T, IAR, NIOMR, NIFFR,
NRCRI etc with IITA, ICRISAT, ILRI, WARDA, ICLRAM, GTZ, IDRC etc. under their
various commodity mandates.
Monitoring and Evaluation, External Review and Reporting
54. NACAR Secretariat through the Research Implementation Committee (RIC)
coordinated the monitoring and evaluation of the project. Annual workplans, budgets, half-
yearly and annual reports were prepared. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted as
well as one external review of the NARIs against yearly reviews envisaged by the SAR.
Twenty-six adoption studies were conducted while nine economic impact assessment studies
have been initiated. However, the recommendation to establish a full M&E unit at NARP
headquarters was not implemented due to shortage of staff. There were no standardised
performance indicators on project implementation while monitoring of project activities in
the NARIs as well as RGS from NARP headquarters was irregular and inadequate. Although,
the Current Agricultural Research Management Information System (CAREMIS) has been
- 55 -



developed and installed in the NARls, it is not fully operational as NARIs staff are yet to be
trained on the use of the software.
DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
55.  The implementation and the relative success of the project was positively influenced by
(i) the effective leadership and coordination provided by NACAR and its Secretariat; (ii) the
availability of experienced scientists in the NARls; (iii) the concept of NCRP which brought
about collaboration between scientists in various research institutes and universities and
resulted in optimisation of available resources; (iv) technical and scientific support from
World Bank Supervision Missions (v) the improvement in basic infrastructures (buildings,
water supply, electricity) and the supply of a large number of vehicles, tractors, office and
laboratory equipment which facilitated research implementation; (vi) linkages with national,
regional and international organisations such as ICRISAT and IITA; and (vii) the exposure of
NARI personnel to various training programmes and the provision of journals, periodicals
and books.
54.  Project implementation was negatively affected by several factors. These are classified
into 2 categories: factors subject to implementing agencies control and factors subject to
govemment control.
Factors Subject to the Control of Implementing Agencies
56. Delay in procurement of goods and services led to delay in commencement of some
activities.
57.  Internal delay in disbursement of funds in some NARIs caused delay and untimely
execution of activities.
58.  Frequent changes of Project Officers and Disbursement Officers in some NARIs
affected continuity and smooth implementation of scheduled programmes.
59.  Initial inexperience with IDA procurement procedure through ICB resulted in the first
set of vehicles procured by the Project not being suitable for field work.
60.  Inadequate supervision of the NARIs and the RGS by technical units of NARP
headquarters was partly responsible for the poor implementation of some research
programmes.
61.  Many collaborating Institutes could not be easily oriented to SOEs fund management
system, which led to delays in reimbursement.
Factors Subject to Government's Control
62.  The unfavourable economic environment characterised by high inflation, incessant
industrial actions by labour unions, prolonged and acute shortage of petroleum products and
political tension during implementation disrupted planned programmes and greatly increased
local project costs.
- 56 -



63.  Inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funds led to long delay in the
reimbursement of SOEs to the NARIs and this adversely affected scheduled execution of
research programmes.
64.  The non-constitution of Governing Boards for the NARIs considerably delayed the
initiation and execution of major policies and administrative decisions. Promotions have been
stalled in most research institutes.
65.  Frequent changes of NARP Project Manager and Directors of Institutes affected
management continuity and in some instances slowed down implementation activities.
66. Government embargo on recruitment of staff coupled with partial implementation of
the Human Resources Development Plan (HRDP) led to the non-filling of critical vacancies
and skill-gaps at both NARP headquarters and the NARIs.
67. Sudden increase in salaries and allowances without corresponding subventions
from the Federal Government resulted in NARIs using locally generated funds, that could
have complemented NARP funds, in paying salaries to douse industrial crises.
-57 -






r                  ~~~~~~~~IBRD  22274
E    R      A
____                                                                      NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
B E N I N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJRVGEAIN OE8
~  mnthy  .JM.   Draton  f Rin  Sesonin  ay
180                                                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uo  0.~5 5 5712
.210     Ft                                                                                                       C HAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Su-ua  75100257   4 2-0 0   oinl a'n
240  ~~~~~oW;0*A>NOTEIEOLOYAFTE EAGRICULATO RA
MAJOR VEGETATION MAYE1990






NIGERIA                                                  ,
NIGER                                NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                       ( -\-,,t[CA
_  t                  ~~~~~~LOCATION OF AGPICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES                            -: . 
BURKINA                                                                                 =                     
aFASO                             OfiCiDiSsNAJA9
J    Y                C   >                            f            X                           o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIDUGURI 
BENIN                                            1 141516 
(   xbinp(?      t~~3               w            7>               8AiUC.HI        <t                  2J 24        EROON
)  NEW             ~~~~~~NiGF.R             K ADUNAi      t j S
12          \  ~~~~~ILORIN                          fPLATEAU<  
<~~~~~~~~~ C                                                                                 GO N kS0 < -0t0A 
IBADok           IF
>~~ ~~~          9 BDo  o   \<               <2                                                                              UNIVERSITES:
) A3EUKX        /   C3~~~~~ND0  I\>BNd                                                                                  NIOMR   13 ABU
i 3 Ov < t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 UA                                                   15 AERLS
e S ni o3ENIN CITY ~~~~~~~~~~~20                                                                              5 CRIN      17 NVRI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iER   *-  Locahion of Agricultural Research InstitlXsa o 2 O
l000 0 g . , S ts ................ A; 8 uMU~DIKE          rE {.)*Federal Universifies withMajor Faciliies of AgFicuhure  1... 10 NSPRI  22 LUA
i; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 1                                                edea UnvrsNso Agriculur               I I NIFFR   23 CRI



