Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C>Z~-  -2I  - 
Repot No. 8646-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
MAY 15, 1991
Western Africa Department IV
Agriculture Operations Division
Ii  doument has a resftcted d_Ibution and may be used by        only hi the perfonuace of
dlr fo&la duiae. Its content may  ot otwise he dosedito  Wodd Bank a iza



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =         Naira (N)
US$1                           N8.854
N1 (100 kobos)                 US$0.113
SDR 1.0              =         US$ 1.3340
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures
used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)      =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)            =    2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)               -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)         =    0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDZRAL IEPULC OP F        A
RATIONAL AGRCULTURAL RESEUC  PROJT
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ABU       Akmadu Bello University, Samaru/Zaria
ACP       Agricultural Development Project
AERLS     Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison
Service Units of the Institutes
ARMTI     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASD       Agricultural Sciences Department, Federal Ministry of
Science and Technology
CGTAR     Consultative Group for International Agricultural
Research
CRIN      Cocoa Research Institute for Nigeria
FACU      Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FISRO     Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi
FMST      Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
FMANR     Federal Ministry of Agriculture, and Natural Resources
FRIN      Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria
FSR       Farming Systems Research
HRDP      Human Resource Development Plan
IAR       Institute of Agricultural Research
LART      Institute of Agricultural Research and Training
ICIPE     International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology
IITA      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ILCA      International Livestock Center for Africa
LCRI      Lake Chad Research Institute
MANR      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (State)
MTRM      Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NACAR     National Advisory Council for Agricultural Research
NAERLS    National Agricultural Extension and Research
Liaison Service
NAPRI     National Animal Production Research Institute
NARP      National Agricultural Research Project
NCA       National Council for Agriculture
NCRI      National Cereals Research Institute
NCST      National Council for Science and Technology
NIFFR     National Institute for Freshwater Fisheries Research
NIFOR     Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NIHORT    National Institute  for Horticultural Research
NIOMR     National Institute for Oceanography and Marine
Research
NITR      National Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research
NLPD      National Livestock Projects Department
NRCRI     National Root Crops Research Institute
NRSP      National Research Strategy Plan
NSPRI     Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute
NUC       National University Commission
NVRI      National Veterinary Research Institute
OAU       Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife
RGS       Research Grant Scheme
RRSN      Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria
SAP       Structural Adjustment Program
SPAAR     Special Program for African Agricultural Research
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IEDgram  REUBLIC OF vNIGRI
RATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SMO Y   ...... *                ..................................      I
I.      INTODUCTION   ....
II.     BACIGROUND   *.......2
A.    Agricultural Sector and Economic Enviro              o mntn..........     2
B.    The Government's Agricultural Policies and Bank
Sector Assistance Strategyr........a         t    e     gy.............   4
C.   Ongoing Projects of Other Donors, Bank Operations
and Lessons Learned S...... ......................                     5
III.    TEE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYST3K ........ .  ......................... .         7
A.   Institutional Framework ...                 . . . .  ........................... .  7
B.   Research Management  *.....................................    10
C.   Research Funding  . .................................. .    12
0.   Present Staffing and Training ..........................                  13
E.    National and International Linkages ...................                  14
F.    Summary of Major Constraints                 ..........................    16
G.    Policy Issues in Relation to the Management of the
Research Institutes .................           ........   ....*    17
IV.    TiM PROJECT to..........8o                                                       i
A.   Rationale and O        bjectives...............................           18
B.   Project Design ................ ... 0.4***..... 0#4.**.                   19
C.    Summary Description ......................                ........       19
D.   Detailed Features .....................................                   20
V.      PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .................... .                    ...       25
A.   Cost Estimates   .........................                   .. ..        25
B.    Proposed Financing Arrangements.......... .........                      27
D.   Disbursement ............................... .. .....*   31
E.   Auditing, Accounting and Financial Reporting ..........                   32
This report is baeSd on the findings of a pro-appralsal misson eomprising
Mesrs. Ashok S*th (Mission Loeader), J. Heyward, S. Rmbocuse S. Bokuro (World Bank);
0. Habilb C. do Taftin de Tilques, 0. van der Walea A  Nyysoonen, 0. Loobenutoln, F. Bolton
(Consultants), 0. Corbett (ODA. Consultant) which vlisted Nigeria tn November 19. An
appraisal mission led by AsA' Seth finallzed the project proposal In March 190.
Moen. A. Bpgl and 0. Baeceab provided the secretarial support.



- ii -
Pa.e Io.
VI.    PROJCT DeMPLUMN?ATION         .....................................    32
A.   Overall Organization and Management ...................   32
B.   Research Management Systems Development ...............   34
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation, External Reviews and Reporting  3S
D.  National Research Strategy Plan (NRSP)                      36
E.  Research Grant Scheme (RGS) .....       ......              36
F.  Technical Assistance and Training .....................   37
G.   Research Institute Strengthening       ......................   38
H.   National and International Linkages ...................   38
I.   Mid-Term and Completion Reviews .......................   39
J.   Implementation Schedule ................. . ..... ........    40
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................   41
A.  Benefits and Justification  ...........................   41
B.  Risks ..........................................................    42
C.   Environmental Effects . ......              . .. . ...... .   43
VIII.  AGREEENTS REACHED AND RECO)OENDATION  .... . .   ............ .   43
ANNUS
1.    List of Research Institutes and Mandates
2.    Suggested Membership and Terms of Reference for the
National Advisory Committee for Agricultural Research
3.    Summary Job Descriptions of Key Senior Incremental Staff
in the Department of Agricultural Sciences, P14ST
4.   Suggested Guidelines for the Preparation of the National Research
Strategy Plan
5.   Suggested Guidelines for the Preparation of the Human Resource
Development Plan
6.    Technical Assistance
7.    Proposed Annual Cycle of Research Planning, Programming and
Budgeting Process
8.    Suggested Guidelines for the Preparation of the Pilot Production
and Demonstration Activities
9.    Priority Research Programs
10.    Summary Cost Tables
11.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12.    Implementation Schedule
13.    Organizational Charts of:
C-l: Present Organization of Federal Ministry of Science and
Technology
C-2: Proposed Organogram of PMST and the Agricultural Sciences
Department including the RACAR and its Secretariat
14.    Documents Available in Project Files
NAPS:     IBRD 22274   Nigerias Vegetation Zones
IBRD 22275   Nigeria: National Researcb Institutes and Major
Federal Universities



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGEURX
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMWARY
Borrowers                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:              Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
Amounts                   SDR 58.5 million (US$78 Million equivalent).
Termss                    Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Project Description:      The project to be implemented over a 7-year
period would have two major thrusts. The first,
would focus on Research System Development, This
would includes (a) operating the National
Advisory Committee for Agricultural Research
(MACAR) as an independent advisory body to the
Honorable Minister of Science and Technology; (b)
strengthening of the Agricultural Sciences
Department of FMST, to provide the Secretariat
supporting NACAR and to improve research
coordination and management systems;
(c) preparation of a medium to long-term rolling
National Agricultural Research Strategy Plan
(NRSP); (d) establishment of a Research Grant
Scheme to fund priority research in which all
qualified Nigerian institutions, especiallv
universities, could participate and support
regional and international collaborative research
including programs initiated by SPAAR;
(e) establishment of a systematic human resource
development program; and (f) provision of
technical assistance to upgrade research and
financial management systems and to develop the
NRSP. The second, would strengthen the national
agricultural research institutes includings (a)
rehabilitation of infrastructure and repair or
purchase of equipment and machinery considered
essential for implementing agreed priority
programs; (b) funding for priority research
programs; and (c) research-extension linkage
program; and (d) support for regional and
international research collaboration, including
with institutes under the CGIAR system and
programs initiated by the SPAAR.



- ii -
mated C         
Local       Fore) )n           TotaI
A.    ESERWRSSTWS  DEVEUCPilT                                 0.0           12.6            19.4
S.   RSEAW  INSDISUTE  UPPOT
1.   Intrastructur Rahabilitation                       9.1           20.7            85.6
11.  Priority Rossorch Program Costs                   14.0            7.0            21.0
III. Rosearch Extension Linkage Program                 5.8            6.1            11.4
Total Rsearch InstTtuto Support                        26.4           89.6            66.2
Total Bas  Cos                                        85.0           62.0            67.0
Physical Contingencies                                  1.6            4.8             5.9
Price Contingencies                                     4.6            6.0            10.6
IMTAL POJT COS'TS                                      41.2           62.9           104.1
Finanolna Plan
im-fll      Foroelgn           ToteI
------- --  Mil I ionn-  ---
]DA                                                    15.1           62.9            78.0
3overndmst                                             26.1             -             20.1
Tot"                                             41.2           62.9           104.1
Eftoimted Diebursements
IDA Fiscol Year:               FY92   FYO8    MY94          FY K i90       MY97    fY9t
Annual                     11.0   16.6    16.5    11.5    12.0          6.6      2.0
Cumulative                 11.0   27.6    48.0    57.5    69.5    76.0    78.0
I/Includes all identifiable duties and taxes.



- iii -
The project would help establish a well managed
research system able to generate relevant
research results and adapt imported technology
for thr ummediate needs of farmers under diverse
agro-ec, .ogical conditions, leading to increases
in agricultural productivity. Strong linkages to
be established with other Bank assisted
agricultural activities and the International
Agricultural Research Centers (tARCs) would
ensure rapid exploitation of research findings.
Development of appropriate systems for the
management of natural resources would help
safeguard the environment and ensure sustainable
agricultural growth.
Riskst                     The main risk facing the project is the inherent
unpredictability of scientific research where
success may not be guaranteed. Other risks
relate tos (a) the responsiveness of the
Nigerian research system and its administration
with respect to basic institutional reforms
needed; and (b) adequate and predictable funding
of research. To safeguard against these risks,
key organizational changes have been implemented
as ctaditions of Board presentation.  These
changes and strengthening of research linkages
with related institutions would enhance client
influence on research policy and programmaing.
Implementation of changes in research management
and improvement in quality of research would be
reinforced by provision of expertise to the
Government In critical areas, establishment of
close links with the CGIAR institutes, and early
emphasis on training of senior managers in the
research management procedures. Research would
also be re-aligned to address the priority needs
of farmers as identified with the help of the
extension service, thereby increasing its
relevance. The program to achieve these
objectives would be reviewed annually. To
minimize the risk of under-funding of research,
the Government's commitment to provide adequate
funds in a timely manner was obtained at
negotiations.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
HMO$                       IBRD Nos. 22274 and 22275



FEDERAL RFPUILIC OF NIGERIA
NATIORAL AGRICULTURAL IRSEARCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Nigeria has the largest African agricultural research service
with 17 institutes located throughout the country and more than 800
graduate scientists. The service was regarded until recently as one of the
best in Africa, having developed many improved varieties of food and fibre
crops, as well as introduced improvements in forestry, animal production
and disease control. Since the mid-1970s, however, the service has several
times been reorganized with unsettling effects on research coordination,
direction and execution. More recently, after world oil prices collapsed
in the early 1980s, national funding was curtailed and the system is no
longer adequately equipped or funded. The Federal Government of Nigeria
(FGN), recognizing the importance of research to sustain growth of the
agricultural sector, requested the IDA's assistance to help restore the
system to its peak capacity.  Discussious on this proposal were started in
October 1987 and the preparation work was undertaken by FAOICP, with the
assistance of Nigerian consultants appointed by the Government, during 1988
and 1989 with the submission of a preparation report (No. 136/89 CP NIG 89)
to the Government in October 1989. The preparation report was reviewed by
the Nigerian consultants and used as the basis for a national workshop
organized by Federal Ministry of Science aud Technology (FMST), and
attended by Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR),
Federal Ministry of Education (FME), universities, institute Directors, the
World Bank pre-appraisal mission, a representative from the Special Program
for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) secretariat and other donors.
The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) is based on the
preparation report, recommendations of the Government's consultants,
guidance provided by the workshop, and the findings of the IDA's pre-
appraisal and appraisal missions. The project is seen as the first part of
a longer term program to strengthen the research system. It would develop
the institutional framework to improve coordination and management of
research; immediately launch agreed priority research initiatives while
helping to prepare a National Research Strategic Plan; stimulate university
participation in research activities; rehabilitate research institutes;
provide training for scientists and technicians in line with the skills and
manpower requirements of the system; promote stronger links between the
generators and users of research information; and support the Nigerian
research system in its desire to participate in regional and international
collaborative agricultural research programs.



II. BACKOROUND
A. Agricultural Sector and Economic Environment
2.01      Agriculture is the dominant sec(..r of the Nigerian economy.  It
plays a key role in supplying food for the population, raw materials for
industry, earning foreign exchange and providing a market for the
industrial sector. Over two thirds of the Nigerian labor force is employed
in agriculture, although the sector currently produces only 30 percent of
the GDP. In the future, considerable potential of the Nigerian agriculture
needs to be harnessed to gainfully absorb the rapidly increasing population
into the economy. The arable land area is 71 m hectares, or about twice
the cultivated area, covering a wide range of agro-ecological zones and
permitting a diversified farming system. There are substantial surface and
groundwater resources. Prior to the oil boom, Nigeria was a major world
exporter of several commodities -- cocoa, groundnut, cotton, rubber and
palm oil, of which only cocoa is now exported in substantial quantities.
Import substitution in agriculture and agricultural exports can become a
key source of net foreign exchange in the future, reducing the dependence
on oil exports.
2.02      The sector's importance has moved inversely with the rise and
fall in oil revenues. Agriculture suffered severely during the oil boom
period of the seventies. The sector share of GDP fell from 45 percent to
27 percent between 1970-82, while exports became insignificant. Data
quality prevents definitive conclusions, but the decline was asymmetrically
concentrated on cash crops. The output of seven staple food crops -
sorghum, millet, maize, rice, wheat, yam and cassava - rose between 1970-
82, but at an average rate of only 1.2 percent per year. In the 1982-86
period, cereal production recovered, helped by good weather conditions in
1934 and 1985, as well as the positive impact on pr_.ces caused by the
import restrictions introduced on cereals and vegetable oil to support the
balance of payments, and to switch consumption back to indigenous root
crops and coarse grains.
2.03      The primary causes of the decline in agriculture during the oil
boom period lay in the price effects, including the appreciation of the
Naira and the increase in wages, which reduced the sector's ability to
retain labor, and the concentration of public expenditures financed by oil
revenues outside smallholder agriculture. Ever, after oil exports fell in
the early 19809, the government maintained the value of the Naira and taxed
the export crop sector through the operations of the commodity boards. A
policy of cheap food imports was also followed, resulting in a tenfold
increase during the seventies.
2.04      The introduction of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in
mid-1986 resulted in a significant change in incentives for the
agricultural sector. The Naira depreciated considerably from M1 - US$1 in
October 1986 to 17.5 - US$1 in October 1989. Abolition of the commodity
boards brought ,bout a significant increase in producer prices for several
export crops. Import restrictions were broadened to include bans on the



- 3 -
import of wheat, maize, rice, vegetable oil, poultry and animal feed. Some
other policy measures with a potential for impact on the agricultural
sector were also introduced simultaneously. Interest rate ceilings on
rural loans were removed, while exporters were allowed to retain their
foreign exchange earnings in domiciliary accounts for conversion to imports
at any time.
2.05      The result of these measures has been positive.  The total value
of exports of major agricultural commodities in 1988 was 100 percent above
1987 levels in current Naira. The export increase has been concentrated on
cocoa, but the output of rubber, palm oil and cotton has also increased.
Furthermore, a number of manufacturing enterprises have started import
substitution in favor of local agricultural products, with backward
integration and investment in the sector. The use of local sorghum for
brewing in place of imported malt is an example. In the case of food
crops, the picture is more complicated. The abolition of the commodity
boards had no direct impact on food prices, and, in effect shifted
incentives in favor of cash crops. Moreover, pOOL weather in 1987 had an
adverse effect on output. However, by 1988 and 1985, food output had
recovered.
2.06      It is expected that in the short term exogenous factors such as
oil prices and weather conditions would continue to affect Nigeria's
economic prospects. Oil accounted for 241 of totai GDP and 95 percent of
total export earnings in 1988, and with good prices helped GDP to 4.4?
growth. In the same year, with good weather and favorable prices,
agricultural output increased by 5.5 percent. Early indications in 1989
suggest continued growth in agriculture and oil but a decline in
manufacturing.
2.07      All prices increased following SAP and with substantial
devaluation of the Naira, domestic prices rose by 10-152 in 1986 and 1987,
50Z in 1988 and 402 in 1989. Food prices during the last three and a half
years of SAP rose comparably, but in the last two years, food prices have
risen faster providing incentives for the food sector. The decline of real
wages, which started before the SAP, continued during 1987-89. Unofficial
unemployment rates in the urban areas have fallen since 1986 and rural
unemployment in 1988 was lower than in 1986.
2.08      The Nigerian economy will continue to require support
particularly for implementing the SAP from international creditors. With
Nigeria's population increasing annually by 3.4X, to provide only a 12
increase in consumption, GD-P (including the oil sector) will have to grow
by four and a half percent per annum, a rate exceeded only in the oil rich
1960-79 period. With SAP in place, such a growth rate for GDP is possible
but it would also require: (a) the agriculture sector to grow roughly at
four percent p.a. over the next five years; (b) the realization of a slight
increase in prices and export volume, in the nil market; and (c)
substantial rescheduling and inflows of external financing to permit the
volume of imports and investments necessary for growth.
2.09      Outstanding Constraints.  The macroeconomic adjustment program,
including devaluation of the Naira, has created short run problems for



- 4 -
those agricultural activities where increases in output prices have lagged
behind input prices or where a gradual shift is needed from lmported inputs
S3 local sourcing. During the time of structural changas associated with
the adjustment program, the private sector is reluctant to undertake major
investments with foreip exchange risk. In addition, agriculture is
constrained bys (i) weak agricultural services, especially national
research; (Ui) poor marketing and information systems; (iii) low
productivity of public sector investment in agriculture; (lv) imperfections
in the rural finance market, vhich limits access to institutional credit;
(v) poorly developed infrastructure; and (vi) erratic input (fertilizer and
seed) supplies.
D.   The Governments Aaricultural Policies and Bank Sector Assistance
Strategy
2.lj      The Government is aware of the continuing constraints and
recognixes that agricultural growth has to rise substantially to feed and
provide employment for a population rising at around 3.4 percent p.a. and
to produce raw materials for industrial development.
2.11      In January 1987, the Government issued its Statement of
Agricultural Policy. The policy includes the following key objecttvess
(i) attainment of self-sufficiency in basic food commodities; (ii)
Increased production of agricultural raw materials to meet the growing
needs of an expanding industrial sector; (iii) increased production and
processing of export crops; (iv) modernization of agricultural ptoduction,
processing, storage and distribution systems through improved technology;
(v) creation of increased rural employment; (vi) protection against
environmental degradation; and (vii) improvement in basic amenities
available in rural areas. The recent macro-economic policies pursued by
the Government, which support the objectives outlined above, provide
Incentives to growers, especially to exporters, and to the private sector
in general. In line with the privatization policy under the SAP, the
Government has stated its intention to withdraw from direct investment in
production or limit its equity participation in any state-owned enterprise
to under 25 percent. An active policy to privatize the state-owned
enterprises is being pursued through specially appointed Technical
Committee on Privatization and Commercialization (TCPC).
2.12      The objective of the national policy on science and technology
issued In 1986 is to direct and develop science and technology in support
of national goals and to promote translation of results into actual goods
and services. The policy to develop technology has research and
development as a major strategy with agriculture (food and export crops
production) and agro-allied industries listed as high priorities. More
information on the Scienee and Technology policy is given in Annex 1.
2.13      Following publication of the Agricultural Policy, the Bank and
the Government have conferred to agree a policy framework and operational
strategy for the Bank's sector assistance to Nigeria. A recent



- 5 -
agricultural sector report 11 roleased by the Bank identifies actions
required to achieve an agricultural growth rate of four percent per annum
over the medium term. These areo
(a)  launching of a new fertilizer sector action plan which focusses
on Improved availability, reduced subsidies, private and
cooperative distribution, and improved location specific
formulation and recommendations;
(b)  intensification of efforts to improve agricultural extension,
build the national research capacity, Improve quality seed
supply, and streamline input distributions
(c) acceleration of the ongoing private small-scale irrigation
program and developwent of a prioritized program of high return
investments to exploit past expenditure in the medium and large-
scale sector;
'd) launching of a new livestock sector action plan which focusses
policies and programs on achieving crop/livestock integration
and improved draft power availability;
(e) development of environmental action program to ensure sustained
growth of agriculture;
(f) improvement in rural marketing systems through acceleration of
the program for rural feeder roads, rural market development and
increased private and cooperative storage; and
Cg) strengthening of the systems of efficient rural financial
intermediation to encourage capital formation and increased
private sector involvement in agriculture.
2.14      The sector report identified the urgent need for strengthening
the research system under FMST, to work closely with the extension
activities of the Federal and State Ministries of Agriculture (including
the ADPs) together with the Universities to ensure effective coordination
of research and transfer of research findings to the farming communities,
as well as receiving feedback from them for increasing the relevance of
research. The system also requires closer linkages with the International
Centers for Agricultural Research under the CGIAR system to draw on their
expertise, especially in plant breeding and related activities. The
proposed project would help in fulfilling these requirements.
C. Ongoing Proiects of Other Donors, Bank Operations and Lessons Learned
2.15      Ongoing Projects of Other Denors.  The Japanese International
Corporation Agency (JICA) have a program to assist the National Institute
11 Nigeria Strategy for Agricultural Growth. Report No. 7988 UNI,
December 1989.



- 6 -
for Oceanography and Marine Research (tIOMR), and the British Council has
provided books and funds for staff training at the National Veterinary
Research Institute (NVRI). More recently a UNDP project executed by FAO
has started to strengthen some aspects of agricultural extension. These
are programs with specific, narrowly-targeted objectives, which cannot be
expected to make a major contribution to the upgrading of the research
system as a whole.
2.16      Bank Operations.  Since 1975, Nigeria has received the Bank's
assistance in the following areass Agricultural Sector Loan (US$9
million); Forestry (US$102 million); Irrigation and Drainage (US$17.5
million); Livestock (US$102 million); Tree Crops (US$229 million);
Agricultural Development Projects (US$1.16 billion); Fertilizer Imports
(US$250 million); and the Seed Project (US$14 million). The focus of the
lending program, however, has been the ADPs, which now cover every state in
Nigeria. The principal objective of ADPs is to increase smallholder income
and food crop production through a package of support services with
emphasis on input supply, seed multiplication and extension. In the past,
they also included a component for the construction of feeder roads, farm
service centers and rural water supplies which are gradually being
transferred to main line agencies. As the ADPs become established as the
implementation arms of the State MANRs, the emerging new strategy for
packaging Bank assistance is to fund ADPs of the States through national
projects jointly financed by the Bank and the Federal Government for the
key agricultural support services.
2.17      Most Bank financed operations have included a small research
component mainly to support specific project related activities which,
until recently, operated without links to the national research system, and
in some cases undermining the research institutes. The research component
of the Second Livestock Development Project (Loan No. 5795-UNI) was
included to finance livestock systems research and that of the Second
Forestry Project (Loan No. 5915-UNI) is concentrating on afforestation-
related issues. All ADPs also include an adaptive research component.
Under the NARP, the research activities of the ongoing projects would be
closely linked to the national program and operate as part of an integrated
research system.
2.18      Concurrently, the Bank is processing the Federal Universities
Development Sector Adjustment Operation (Report No. P-5172-UNI) which
impinges on the proposed research project. The Sector Adjustment Operation
is designed to improve the effectiveness of teaching and research, to
increase non-governmental income of universities and make university
operations more cost-effective and efficient. The activities of the
proposed agricultural research project would benefit from the revitalized
universities, operating with adequate resources and improved teaching and
research capability.



- 7 -
2.19      The Lessons Learned from completed projects 2/ in Nigeria which
are relevant to this project, include the need to ensure that: (i) a
piecemeal approach to research through uncoordinated small components in
agricultural projects should be avoided, as it weakens the national system
and may not accord with overall national research objectives and programs;
(ii) research scientists should participate regularly in ADP organized
Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRMs), as part of the training and
visit system of extension to improve two-way communication; (iii) the
recommended extension messages should be based on technology proven through
on-farm research to confirm suitability and farmer acceptance; and
(iv) extension services should be unified and streamlined, with strong
backing from the research system, to become the single source of technical
advice to farmers.
2.20      The key features of this project, which specifically respond to
past experiences include: (a) establishment of a comprehensive national
research project which addresses the key constraints being faced bv the
entire system; (b) support for farming systems research program with a
focus on on-farm research to ensure generation of relevant technology; and
(c) strengthening on-going links between the research system and extension
activities, in particular, through the introduction of mechanisms for
increased user influence on research programs and rapid transfer of new
technology to farmers.
ITI. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTE(
A.   Institutional Framework
1.   National Council for Science and Technology and National
Council for Agriculture
3.01      The main linkage at the policy level between FMST, as the
research agency, and the FMANR, representing the extension services and the
interests of other customers for research, is through the National Council
for Agriculture (NCA) chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and the
National Council for Science and Technology (NCST) chaired by the Minister
of Science and Technology, with reciprocal representation from each
ministry. The states, universities and private sector are represented on
both bodies. The NCA largely focusses on issues affecting development of
agriculture in the states, whereas the NCST deals with issues relating to
the national policy on science and technology. More information on the
NCST and the NCA is given in Working Paper 1.
3.02      The NCST Technical Sub-Committees.  The FMST has also
established the following four advisory subcommittees to the NCST: (i)
Health, (ii) Natural Sciences, (iii) Agriculture, and (iv) Industry. These
have the general mandate tot (a) review and promote research and
2/ PPAR Nos. 3975 (Funtua, Gusau, Gombe ADPs Loans 1092/1099/1164) and
7315 (Bida ADP Loan 1091).



development activity, (b) identify and highlight priority areas for
research and development, (c) promote and foster collaborative efforts
among research scientists, and (d) provide mechanisms for the acquisition,
storage and dissemination of information on science and technology. The
Technical Sub-Committee on Agriculture, established only recently, is
chaired by the Director, Agricultural Sciences Department with
representatives from the States, universities, PHANR and research
institutes.
2.   Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
3.03      Until 1970, the responsibility for agricultural research was
with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, but
thereafter it was transferred to a series of ministries and bodies
responsible for science and technology. Initially (1970-76) it was the
Nigerian Council of Science and Technology; then the Nigerian Agricultural
Research Council (1976-77), followed by the National Science and
Development Agency (1977-78), which became the Federal Ministry of Science
and Technology (FMST) in 1979 and, briefly, (1984-85) the Federal Ministry
of Education, Science and Technology, before reverting to the earlier
designation.
3.04      P1ST, administers and coordinates the activities of the 17
institutes through its Agriculture Sciences Department (ASD). The ASD is
headed by a Director and at FMST headquarters, he is assisted by two Deputy
Directors, one for Forestry, Training and Extension, and one for Crops,
Livestock and Fisheries. Under each of these Deputy Directors are two
branches headed by Assistant Directors who, in turn, control through Chief
Research Officers, a number of sections staffed with
scientists/administrators conversant with mandates and subsectoral research
programs of the institutes. An organogram showing the present structure of
FMST and the ASD is given in Annex 13, Chart C-1.
3.05      The support services in FMST are distributed over four
directorates. The Department of Planning, Research and Statistics is
responsible for coordinating the planning and monitoring of the programs of
the other departments of FMST. The Finance and Supplies Department
coordinates budget preparation for the FMST, including that of the research
institutes, monitors and controls budget allocations to and expenditure by
the institutes and coordinates procurements financed by the Ministry. The
Department of Personnel Management is responsible for staff administration
and human resource development. The Department of Science and Technology
Information is expected to promote the overall interests of science and
technology in the country, leaving establishment of operational linkages in
the hands of the sectoral directorates. These activities are coordinated
through a committee of departmental directors.
3.   Research Institutions
3.06      Prior to independence in 1960, there were nine research
institutes which concentrated principally on export crops. To this total,



- 9 -
seven more were added and the network now consists of 17 institutes with
over 80 sub-stations covering all agro-ecological zones. A list of
institutes and their mandates is given in Annex 1 and the Map IBRD 22275
shows their locations.
3.07      Each institute is publicly owned and financed, semi-autonomous
and accountable to FNST. Most of the institutes have adequate building
facilities either completed or under construction. At three institutes,
however, (LCRI, NCRI and NSPRI) essential laboratory buildings are
unfinished due to shortage of funds. Overall direction at each Institute
is provided by a Governing Board consisting of eminent scientists,
businessmen, prominent farmers and representatives of ADPs. Day-to-day
management is the responsibility of the Institute Director. Research is
essentially commodity based, with each institute having national
responsibility for work on one or more commodities. The institutes also
undertake factor research on soils, water, fertilizers and pesticides,
mainly in relation to agro-ecological zones or crops within their mandates.
A national institute coordinates research-extension linkage programs and
has the responsibility for work on womens' program with a focus on home
economics. In addition, research institutes also have specialized
research-extension liaison units designed to transfer research results and
receive feedback on farmers problems through extension services operating
within the mandated area.
3.08      Seven of the institutes run training schools, but the
administrative arrangements for these schools are under review by PHST.
Some institutes are involved in pilot production operations, to speed up
transfer of research information to end users and to study production
problems.
3.09      The agricultural research institutes have been successful, in
selecting and breeding improved varieties for the most important food
crops, e.g. sorghum, millet, cowpea, cotton, soybean, tomato and onion
varieties released by IAR; maize varieties released by IAR&T; rice
varieties released by NCRI; and cassava varieties and miniset techniques
for yam propagation released by NRCRI. However, until early 1980s, most
research was geared to high input agriculture which mainly benefited larger
farmers. This has now changed. There is a better understanding of
constraints faced by the small farmers and the institutes are devoting a
significant proportion of available resources to farming systems research
to develop technology appropriate for small farms. Interim recommendations
for mixed cropping have been formulated using research findings from mono-
crop commodity programs, but more research is needed to improve on
traditional farming practices.
4.   Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs)
3.10      ADPs now cover all the states in the country and are effectively
the implementing arm of the state MANRs. The major focus of the ADPs
increasingly is to provide agricultural services, especially extension and
on-farm adaptive trials, with close linkages to the research system. The
responsibility for other services including rural water supplies, road



- 10 -
vorks, seed multiplication is gradually being moved over to other more
appropriate public or private sector agencies.
5.   Universities
3.11      Nigeria has 22 federal universities and 8 state universities
with 18 faculties of agriculture or agricultural technology (15 at federal
universities), and two recently established agricultural universities.
Among these, the first five federal universities (University of Ibadan;
Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria; Obafemi Awalowo University at Ile-Ife;
University of Lagos; and the University of Nigeria at Nsukka) remain the
premier educational institutions in the country. Four of these older
universities (UOI, ABU, OAU and UON) are responsible for almost all
postgraduate teaching in agriculture and therefore the principal sources of
staff for research institutes and universities. Since the collapse of the
oil boom, university budgets have been severely cut and the system
inadequately funded. Funding for improving teaching and research
capabilities of the universities are being provided under the Universities
Development Sector Operation. The NARP would assist in establishing close
working relationship between the universities and the research institutes.
6.   Private Sector
3.12      The private sector plays only a minor role in research through
its agricultural enterprises. In some cases they have entered into
contractual research arrangements with institutes to finance development of
technology to meet specific needs, e.g. seed multiplication of a sorghum
variety for use by the brewing industry and aquaculture technology for the
production of freshwater shrimps. A few have limited resources to
undertake adaptive research to support cultivation of crops needed to
supply raw materials for their own industrial use, e.g. cotton. A limited
amount of adaptive research is also undertaken by agro-chemical companies
to support their marketing operations for pesticides. Strengthening of the
research institutes and the future growth of the agricultural sector would
provide opportunities for expansion of the private sector involvement in
research.
B. Research Management
3.13      Policy Guidance, Coordination and Control.  Effective
agricultural research in Nigeria requires that FMST and FMANR should
jointly determine research policy and priorities. In practice, however,
the NCST is responsible for overall policy guidance of agricultural
research and the NCA decides on the policy and priorities for agricultural
development. However, the size and composition of these councils makes
them unsuitable for determining research policies, and the breadth of
agenda for meetings limits consideration of research issues. Furthermore,
the frequency of interaction and feedback between FMST and FMANR are
insufficient to develop a well coordinated research policy on an ongoing
basis.



- 11 -
3.14      PMST, by appointing Governing Boards to the institutes and
granting them semi-autonomous status, has gone partway to providing the
benefits of a decentralized system. However, in the absence of an
effective mechanism for developing a coordinated national program
responding to priorities, it is unable to provide sufficient guidance to
the institutes' research programs. To overcome this weakness, there is a
need to establish a high level inter-institutional body able to advise FMST
on the overall policy, strategy, direction and balance of programs for
different sectors of agricultural research.
3.15      Research Programs and Priorities.  Research projects within
programs are prepared by individual scientists according to their own
specialties, and from these each institute develops an annual program and a
rolling five-year plan. Both annual and five year programs comprise
detailed proposals but do not distinguish between research, extension,
production, capital or maintenance. Such individually determined programs
of institutes lack coordination giving rise to duplication. For example,
NVRI and NAPRI have programs investigating the benefits of crossing exotic
breeds of cattle with indigenous breeds and NIHORT and IAR have programs of
research on tomato, onion, pepper, citrus and mango. Despite the time-
consuming procedure for reviewing and approving projects (see Working Paper
2), there is only limited scrutiny of the scientific merit of the project
or its relevance to national priorities.
3.16      Programming and Budgeting.   The present programming and
budgeting cycle followed by FMST and the research institutes effectively
occupies a year. This starts in January with the institute scientists and
ends in December when allocations to be released the following financial
year are made known. Every year each institute submits a request for funds
based on a proposed program of work to FMST. In FMST', it is modified and
after approval is submitted to the Ministry of Planning and Budget for
final approval. Approved funds are then released to IMST for onward
distribution to the institutes. The current process leads to the
development of programs: (i) without a centrally determined overall policy
and lack of knowledge of the funding likely to be available; (ii) without
coordination until the finished programs are presented at a Director's
meeting at FMST; (iii) with only informal and subjective methods of setting
priorities; and (iv) through several iterations which are primarily related
to costs and savings. Improved programming and budgeting procedures to
overcome current weaknesses of the system would be introduced under this
project.
3.17      Forward Planning.  The institutes annualized five year plans are
aggregated and reviewed at FMST directors' meetings, where the associated
budgets are adjusted to figures believed to accord with priorities.
Abstracts are then prepared of the revised plans, which are consolidated
into the FMST five-year plan and forwarded to the Ministry of Planning and
Budget as a contribution to the Five-Year National Development Plan. FGN
recently decreed a change from five-to-three year development plans, but
there is no indication as yet that this would lead to any changes in the
form of these plans.



- 12 -
3.18      Budgetary Allocations and Financial Management.   Institute
budgets are coordinated by FMST Department of Finance and Supplies.
Budgets, when finally agreed, may differ widely in their estimates from the
budgets requested by institutes with, In any given year, one or two
institutes receiving the amounts requested, or even more, and others
receiving as little as 202 of that requested. Procedures require that
funds be disbursed quarterly following receipt and scrutiny of the
institutes' quarterly reports. However, even after budgets have been
approved, disbursements may be less than allocated, irregular and late,
depending on the disposition of central government finances.
3.19      Financial management procedures used by the institutes are not
standardized and are primarily aimed at meeting the Government's reporting
requirements. They do not provide information on the actual costs of
research projects or programs. Audits carried out by external auditors
appointed by FMST in many cases have emphasized the need to improve the
quality of accounting and timeliness of reporting. Monitoring of
expenditures against the budget varies from none to satisfactory. The
financial management system needs upgrading; staff need to be trained.
Measures are needed to increase the accuracy of financial reporting,
introduce more discipline on the accounting process, including a uniform
accoL. ting system for the research institutes. Improvements in these areas
would be undertaken during this project.
3.20      Research Information and Documentation.  Nigerian agricultural
research scientists are unable to keep up to date in the sciences that
interest them, because virtually none of the institute libraries now
receive essential international journals. Lack of funds, particularly
foreign exchange, has meant that journal subscriptions are down to about
10? of those paid in 1980, and there are virtually no new book accessions.
The same lack of finances has prevented scientists from travelling overseas
to conferences, so even informal sources of new scientific information are
denied them. A detailed review of Nigerian agricultural research
information services is given in Working Paper 12.
3.21      The present procedures used in managing the agricultural
research information system needs to be modified so that descriptions of
experiments and progress reports are not only suitable for managing
research progress, but also provide scientists ready access to technical
information and encouragement to write up their work for publication.
C. Research Funding
3.22      The total funding for all the institutes declined substantially
since a peak in the early 1980's until 1986. Thereafter, in current
Nairas, the funding has been increasing. A historical summary is given
below:



- 13 -
1980    1_84   198S   1N    1967   Sf      yI
mm               9 8             04    68    65   100  127  141
(tn cur""*n S)
Use             179    120      72    so    10    22  l   16
Excha"Rto Ntey  0.c5   #J.7n   0.69  1.75   4.01   4.54   7.4  7.9
However, the increases have not kept pace with the high inflation rate.
For example even to maintain the low funding levels of 1985187 period in
real terms, the 1989 funding should have been *148 million. The situation
is worse than this because few program closures or major staff redeployment
have accompanied the fall-off in funding. The result is that most of the
recurrent budget allocated to institutes - estimated to be N90 million or
over 702 of total 1989 allocation - was taken up by salaries, with very
little money available for essential repairs and research operational
costs. In US dollar terms, by 1989 funding had fallen to less than a tenth
of the level in 1980. The implications of this are very serious, as many
research items (i.e. equipment, spare parts, journals, laboratory equipment
and reagents) have to be imported and paid for with foreign exchange. The
situation is now so serious that even the basic small items such as pH
meter probes cannot be replaced as a matter of routine, and a large number
of more sophisticated equipment lies idle for want of foreign exchange to
purchase spare parts. Both an injection of additional funds and procedures
for more efficient management of available resources would be provided
under the project to improve the situation.
D.   Present Staffing and Training
3.23      Staffing.   The total number of staff currently employed by the
17 institutes is estimated at 10,917, some 830 of whom - or less than 82 -
are graduate scientists. Despite the difficulty of obtaining from the
available data a breakdown of staff into the major categories of
scientific, supporting technical, administrative, and service starf ror all
the institutes, there appear to be imbalances, with large numbers of
administrative and service staff.
3.24      In general, the research service has a highly qualified graduate
staff. However, there are a number of specific skill gaps, including plant
breeding and genetics, computer science, equipment maintenance and repair,
and modern research management skills. There are shortages of well trained
technicians, as in the past their training, especially for instrument
repair and general technical support, had not received the same emphasis as
graduate training. More details on this subject are provided in Working
Paper 4.
3.25      In recent years very few scientists have been trained abroad,
even for short periods, so that scientists in the system have been unable
I/Provisional Figures.
A/Sources IMP International Financial Statistics.



- 14 -
to keep up to date in their methods of experimentation or acquire new
skills. A more systematic training program which caters for the diverse
needs of the system would be developed and implemented under this project.
S. National and International Linkages
1.   Research-Extension Linkages
3.26      The mandate for each institute, in addition to research,
includes the transfer of technology to farmers through extension services
of state MANRs. To achieve this, most institutes have an Agricultural
Extension and Research Liaison Services (AERLS) Unit or section. Policy
requires that the AERLS unit of each institute caters for the specific
commodities handled by that institute and for the immediate extension
demands of the ecological zone in which it is located. At establishment.
most institute units were well equipped but funds have not been available
for maintaining equipment or for field demonstrations and farmer visits.
Thus, these sections largely became ineffective as a linkage between
research and extension. In response to this deteriorating situation, ADPs
initiated independent programs to provide the information needed by their
extension staff. Recently, steps have been taken to strengthen and develop
the linkages between the institutes, universities and ADPs, by introducing
Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRM) as part of the training and visit
system of extension in the ADPs. Research workers from institutes and
universities provide the technical expertise for MTRMs, train subject
matter specialists and advise and assist in the formulation of extension
messages. Gradual unification of sub-sector extension services is
increasing the scope of MTRMs to include forestry, livestock, fisheries and
programs designed for women in agriculture.
3.27      In order to generate location-specific appropriate technology
ADPs have also established on-farm adaptive research (OFAR) teams. These
teams operate in collaboration with research institutes and rely on
technical back-up from them. OPAR programs include diagnosing farming
systems and farm constraints and testing technology designed to improve
fanming production and productivity. The quality and relevance of the work
program undertaken by the OFAR teams needs to be improved and the
strengthened research system would be able to make greater contributions to
this program.
3.28      Another significant recent development is the revised mandate
given to the National AERLS, Samaru. Under the new mandate, NAERLS would
coordinate the planning and developmxat of extension liaison activities
nationally; produce audio-visual materials and organize national training,
conferences and workshops on extension. In addition the NAERLS would
conduct research into technology transfer and adoption processes, publish a
National Journal on Extension, and act as an external reviewer of the
activities of individual institute AERLS units. To achieve these objectives
the MAERLS would be locating staff at the five zonal institutes. A fuller
description of the subject is provided in Working Paper S.



- 15 -
2.   Research - Universities
3.29      The strength of the linkages and quality of output between
institutes and universities varies greatly. It is strongest at ABU for
historical reasons, with their staff both teaching at ABU and doing
research at the local institutes (IAR, NAPRI and AERLS). IAR&T is
operating on a similar model to ABU and is supposed to move to OAU from
Ibadan. Elsewhere the strength of research-university linkages and quality
of work depends greatly on the interests and personalities of senior staff.
FRIN and UOI in particular have worked well together.
3.30      There are no formal mechanisms for the coordination of
university and institute research, or for collaborative research between
the two except for the recently agreed Memorandum of Understanding between
Makurdi the Agricultural University at Makurdi and NCRI. A scheme is
needed which, for example, permits a university department to carry out the
more fundamental part, and an institute the more applied part, of an agreed
research program.
3.   International and Regional Research
3.31      The most important international linkage of the Nigerian
research system is with the Internationai Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) at Ibadan. The proximity of IITA to the University and
the research institutes in and around Ibadan has ensured close, if
generally informal, links particularly for training, library and
information exchanges. More formal linkage has existed between sections of
IITA and national institutes working on similar crops such as the maize,
grain legumes and root crops. The Director of Agricultural Sciences
Department is also on the IITA board. This collaboration is expected to
improve under the new IITA strategy that calls for closer working relations
with national agricultural research systems. IITA is also responsible for
the transfer of relevant technology to Nigeria from work undertaken by CIAT
and CYNMIT on cassava and maize, respectively.
3.32      ILCA supports Nigerian livestock research through its own staff
based in Nigeria who work mainly on livestock production research in
sub-humid, arid and humid zones. They interact with the national staff of
the livestock research institutes and provide advize and support for field
days, conferences and short courses. ILCA also provides technical advice
on the research programs being financed under the Second Livestock Project.
3.33      More recently, ICRISAT, in agreement with the Government of
Nlgeria, has established a West African sub-regional research and training
program on sorghum operating from a base in Kano State in Northern Nigeria.
This facility is being established in close collaboration with IAR, the
national institute responsible for sorghum research. Support for other
crops within ICRISAT's mandate, e.g. millet and groundnut, is managed
through its Sahelian Center in Niger.



- 16 -
P.   Baarv of  ajt Constraints
3.34      Despite a long history and a good record of past achievements
and investments in human and physical resources, the present performance
and impact of research on agricultural growth leaves considerable room for
improvement. The key constraints facing the system, which are being
addressed in the proposed project, includes
(a) Institutional. Absence of effective mechanisms for coordination
of the research system and development of national research
priorities with appropriate funding for institutes serving
different sectors of the system (paras 4.04 and 6.02 to 6.06).
(b)  Research Management.   The lack of appropriate procedures to
allow effective planning, prioritization, programming,
budgeting, and financial control of research programs at
different levels in the system (department, institute and
national) for management in accordance with key scientific,
economic, and social criteria (paras 4.04 and 6.07).
(c) Research Funding. Inadequate funding of the research system
leading to the present poor state of research institutes, with
limited maintenance of buildings; breakdown of essential
services such as electricity and water; inability to repair or
replace, when necessary, vehicles, laboratory or field equipment
and to buy research supplies (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides,
laboratory glassware); the disproportionate share of recurrent
expenditure occupied by staff salaries (paras 5.03 to 5.06).
gd)  Staffing and Training.   Imbalance in the proportion of
scientists to other (especially administrative and support)
staff with little or no training and retraining of researchers
in new technologies, specialized techniques of research
management and technicians in maintenance of laboratory
equipment (paras 3.35(b), 4.04(d) and 6.14 to 6.17).
(e) Research Information and Documentation. The breakdown of
research information services and the inability of libraries to
acquire up-to-date stocks of journals and books, and to have
access to modern methods of information technology (para
4.05(a)).
(f) Research-Extension Links. Inadequate resources, especially
transport facilities, constrain scientists' involvement in
supporting state-wide OPAR, kThM programs, and interaction with
farmers, thus restricting feedback on farming problems and
weakening research-extension linkages (paras 4.05(c) and 6.22 to
6.23).



- 17 -
G.   Policy issues In Relation to the Management of the Research
institutes
3.35      Guidelines issued by FHST in 1988, for the management of the
institutes, clarifies roles and responsibilities of the Governing Boards,
the Director and senior managers with respect tos program and budget, staff
matters (appointment, promotion, transfer and dircipline). training, inter-
institute transfer, management of funds, general management committees of
the Governing Boards, and communications. However, to streamline
management further and to focus available resources on priority research
the following additional reforms would be introducedt
(a) Training Schools: The training schools attached to the
institutes provide technical/vocational training to certificate,
ordinary and Higher National Diploma level. Even though it is a
valuable service, it absorbs research funds and distracts the
institutes from its main functions of doing research. In the
long term, these schools need independent status, starting with
a financial and administrative separation from the research
institutes. FMST have prepared a timetable for this change and
as the first step instituter have started preparing reparate
budgets for the training schools.
(b) Staffing Level: The current average ratio of scientists to
support staff in all the research institutes is ls13- To
correct the imbalance in favor of administrative and service
staff, each institute would review its staffing level to
identify staff in major categories and prepare a plan to ensures
(i) scientists are provided with sufficient trained technical
support staff - a ratio of one scientist to four technical
support staff was accepted by PMST to be an appropriate target;
(ii) by December 31, 1993, reduce the current average scientist
to total support staff ratio from 1:13 to 1slO and, by the end
of the project, to 1:8; and (iii) limit total expenditure on
staff salaries to a maximum of 602 of recurrent budget. FMST
have prepared a consolidated plan to address above issues.
(c) Mandates of NITR, NVRI and NAPRI. In 1984, FMST appointed the
Obiaga Committee to review the mandates of research institutes
which led to the changes implemented in 1987. However, some of
the Obiaga Committee's recommendations were not implemented
which has, for example, allowed continuation of research on
vector borne human diseases under NITR instead of transfer of
this work to the Nigeria Institute of Medical Research.
Accordingly, it was agreed that FMST would review the Obiaga
Committee's recommendations in the light of the present mandates
of the three institutes involved in livestock research to
identify areas requiring further rationalization.
(d) Research Institute Support for On-farm Ada tive Research (OFAR)
and the Monthly TechnoloRy Review Meetings (MTRMs) Organized by
ADPs. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been developed



- 18 -
between PMST, FMANR (FACU), ADPs and research institutes to
regularize research system support for OPAR and MTRMs organized
by ADPs. The MOU would also state the policy on recognition and
reward system for scientists participating in OFAR and MTRM
programs.
(e)  Commercialization of Mature Production Activities.  Several
pilot production activities seem to be reaching a stage when
they can either be commercialized or passed on to the private
sector. Examples of such activities include: vaccine
production at NVRI, budded rubber seedling production at RRIN,
fresh orange juice production at NIHORT. The vaccine work at
NVRI appears to be the most mature production activity. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that commercial vaccine
production would be made independent of NVRI by December 31,
1991. Readiness for divestiture of the production activities
being undertaken by other institutes would be assessed during
the mid-term review of the project.
IV.  TM PROJE
A.   Rationale and Obiectives
4.01    In view of a rapidly increasing population and a deteriorating
natural resource (soil, water, forest) base, the Long-Term Perspective
Study on Africa, 5/ Managing Agricultural Development in Africa (MADIA)
study 6/ and the Nigerian Strategy for Agricultural Growth (Report No.
7988-UNI) have all emphasized the crucial role of research and need to
strengthen the agricultural research system to ensure continued
agricultural growth essential to food security, foreign exchange generation
and provide gainful employment for the rural population. However, this is
a long-term undertaking which can only be accomplished in carefully planned
stages with strong commitment and sustained support from the Government and
other donors. The proposed project would represent the first stage of this
long-term process to develop an institutional framework and improve the
research management systems, so that priorities are in accordance with
national development objectives, needs of farmers and sustainable use of
natural resource base. The development and effective deployment of human
resources at all levels would be an important objective of the priject.
Othner objectives would include the rehabilitation of infrastructure of
research institutes' support for high priority research to incre^se
5/ World Bank, 1989. Sub-Saharan Africa, From Crisis to Sustainable
Growth: A Long-Term Perspective Study.
61 A multi-donor supported study involving detailed analysis of
agricultural development of six African countries -- Kenya, Malawi,
Tanzania, Cameroon, Nigeria and Senegal, June 1989.



- 19 -
availability of appropriate technologies for the main farming systems and
strengthening of research-extension linkges.
S.   Project Deuip
4.02          The project design takes into account the crucial need for
cooperation between FMST and the FMANR both at the policy and operational
levels. More specifically, the project design aims to ensure thats (a)
the flow of funds and research management decisions at the institute level
are effectively coordiuated at the center, with decentralized execution of
research; (b) suitable accounting and management information systems are
set up with internal controls that will provide means for evaluating the
cost and quality of research; (c) research is rationalized and Implemented
in relation to agreed national priorities with regular internal and
periodical external scientific review of research activities and external
audit of research expenditure; and (d) strong research-extension linkages
are developed with effective farmer influence on research agenda.
C. Sumiary Description
4.03      The project, to be implemented over a 7-year period, would have
two major components as follows:
(a) Research System Development. This component would include:
(i)    support for the operations of the National Advisory
Committee for Agricultural Research (NACAR);
(ii)    strengthening the Agricultural Sciences Department
(ASD) in FMST to provide a secretariat for NACAR and
the development of research management procedures
including an information system which will enhance the
capability to coordinate, plan and manage research;
(iii)    preparation of a National Research Strategy Plan;
(iv)    development of a Research Grant Scheme;
(v)    establishment of a systematic human resource
development program; and
(vi)    technical assistance.
(b) Strengthening of the Research Institutes. This component would
support:
(i)    infrastructure rehabilitation;
(ii)    research programs undertaken by the institutes in
agreed priority areas; and



- 20 -
(iii)    strengthening of the research-extension linkage
program.
D.   Detailed Features
1.   Research System Development (US$24.2 million)
4.04      The activities to be financed would includes
(a) National Advisory Committee for Agricultural Research
(NACAR) and Agricultural Sciences Department tASD) (US$1.1
million). To strengthen linkages between FMST, Ministries
of Agriculture, universities, ADPs, the private sector and
farmers for strategic planning of research, and to guide
the ASD in the coordination of agricultural research
activities of FMST, the NACAR would be an independent
advisory body reporting directly to the Minister and advise
FMST on national priorities for agricultural research and
appropriate funding for different institutes and sectors
being served by the research system. The chairperson of
the committee would be an eminent individual of high
standing in international and national scientific and
agricultural affairs. Its other members would be from
related ministries, eminent scientists and customers for
research. Annex 2 contains the suggested membership and
Terms of Reference of the NACAR.
The Agricultural Sciences Department (ASD) within FMST
would include the NACAR secretariat under the direct
supervision of a Deputy Director such that the ASD would
have an additional Deputy Director, increasing the total to
three. The NACAR secretariat would be an integral part of
the ASD. The Secretariat would provide operational support
to the MACAR, assist project implementation, administer the
Research Grant Scheme (RGS), coordinate preparation of the
National Research Strategy Plan (NRSP) and oversee
implementation of the revised research planning,
programming and budgeting procedures proposed under the
project. The main focus of responsibilities of the
existing ASD Deputy Directors would be to liaise with the
research institutes to ensure that the research programs
accord with agreed priorities, implemented effectively and
reported in a timely manner. In addition, one of the
existing Deputy Directors would have a new responsibility
for the coordination of research on environmental issues,
including soil and water management, and a training program
to be financed under the project.
The project would finance the purchase of vehicles,
computers, office equipment and furniture for the MACAR and
its Secretariat. In addition, recurrent expenses for the
NACAR meetings, travel and operational expenses of the



- 21 -
secretariat would also be provided. The MACAR secretariat
would be mainly staffed by reallocating staff from within
IMST. The responsibilities of key incremental staff are
briefly summarized in Annes 3 and the proposed organization
of the ASD is shown in Annex 13, Chart C-2.
(b) National Research Strategy Plan (NRSP) (US$0.5 million).
The project would finance preparation of a five-year
strategic plan for research in accordance with the
Government's policies and priorities for agricultural
development. Preparation of the NRSP, to be coordinated by
the NACAR Secretariat, would be a major activity during the
initial two years and provide the framework for development
of the project during the ensuing five years. The
preparation of the NRSP would be coordinated with the
assistance of an internationally recruited advisor working
with teams of nationally recruited consultants. The Plan
would review the institute's functions and programs in
relation to changing agricultural needs and priorities and
undertake an in-depth analysis of resources required to
service these needs. Therefore, all major organizational
changes, including the review of institute sub-station
number and distribution, would be considered and
recommended changes to be incorporated in the NRSP.
Suggested guidelines for the preparation of the NRSP are
given in Annex 4.
tc)  Research Grant Scheme (RGS) (US$6.6 million).  The project
would provide an unprogrammed fund to finance time bound
contract research on specific proposals not included in the
core research activities but which emerge as priority
topics of biological, social or economic significance. All
national institutions, including universities, with the
necessary expertise to undertake research would be eligible
to apply. It is estimated that, unless otherwise agreed
with IDA, the total value of an individual grant would not
exceed US$50,000 or a total of US$150,000. The RGS, to be
administered by the NACAR secretariat, would start from the
second year of the project. The key eligibility criteria
would include that the proposal: (i) falls within the area
of overall priority for research and the institution
involved has appropriate expertise to undertake the work;
(ii) has a realistic chance of completion within three
years and results would be of immediate use to farmers;
(iii) has taken earlier work sufficiently into account and
is technically sound. Further information on mechanisms
for publicizing the Scheme and procedure for submission and
review of applications are given in Working Paper 3. It is
anticipated that RGS would not only provide an effective
mechanism for involving universities in support of the
research system, but also be a means of avoiding
duplication of research work undertaken by the Nigerian
universities and institutes. Collaborative or contractual



- 22 -
research and/or twinning arrangements between a Nigerian
institute and a center of excellence in other countries
would be eligible for financing under the RGS. Appropriate
areas of such collaboration would be identified during
implementation of the project. In agreement with IDA, the
RGS would also finance any special study that NACAR or !KST
may consider necessary, e.g. the preparation of a follow-
up project proposal for the next development phase of the
research system.
(d) Human Resource Development (US$13.6 million). The project
would finance training of the following four target groupss
(i) the management staff needing short-term training in
research management; (ii) scientific staff needing long-
term training leading to M.Sc or Ph.D degrees and short-
term visits and/or post-doctoral attachments with selected
centers of excellence; (iii) Technicians. This is a varied
group including technologists, field supervisory staff.
plant operators and maintenance staff. The training needs
of this group would be met either through an on-the-job
training scheme or short-term custom-made courses in
specialized areas; (iv) Administrative Support Staff. This
group would mainly require short courses and/or on-the-job
training in subjects like accounting, financial control,
computer handling and procurement. A detailed breakdown of
the number of trainees under different categories to be
financed each year is given in Working Paper 4.
The project would finance preparation of a medium to long-
term Human Resource Development Plan (HRDP) which would
guide the training program after its completion.
Preparation of the HRDP would be closely linked to the NRSP
which would precede it and influence the nature of skill
requirements of the system. Suggested guidelines for the
completion of this study are given in Annex 5.
Over 802 of the short-term and M.Sc courses would be held
in Nigeria. Ph.D studies may be financed either at an
overseas university or in Nigeria. The post-doctoral
attachments and short familiarization visits in specialized
areas would be undertaken in other countries. To assist in
the training of scientists at the Nigerian universities,
the project would finance upgrading of facilities at
selected faculties or universities of agriculture,
including purchase of essential equipment and re-training
of teaching staff. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that FMST would enter into agreements with at
least three Nigerian universities by December 31, 1991 to
finance upgrading of training facilities and to train the
trainers.
(e) Technical Assistance (TA) (US$2.4 million). The main
requirements for 84 man-months of long-term overseas TA, to



- 23 -
be recruited individually, would be to develop research
management systems and financial management, and to assist
the development of the NRSP. In addition, it would also
provide for 72 man-months of local and 126 man-months of
overseas short-term consultancies in specialized technical
areas, human resource development and research management
fields and participation in external reviews of the
institutes. Different tasks, for which technical
assistance is being provided, are summrized in Annex 6,
with detailed terms of reference in Working Paper 11.
4.05      The second component of the project would focus on strengtheninR
the researc' institutes through:
(a) Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$42.6 million). The main
objective of the proposed project is to establish processes
leading to improved organization and management of the research
system and focussing of research on priority targets, but most
of the institutes require urgent rehabilitation of facilities to
be able to undertake any meaningful research identified now as
priority or to be recommended by the NRSP. Therefore, the
project would provide funds to repair and replace items, e.g.,
laboratory equipment, vehicles, farm machinery and computers.
The water and electricity supplies at some of the institutes
would be rehabilitated. To derive maximum benefit from scarce
expertise available in some areas in the country and to reduce
the overall cost of rehabilitation and maintenance of expensive
equipment, FMST would designate selected institutes in specific
fields as centers of excellence, where skilled manpower and
equipment in that field would be concentrated.  In addition to
providing the necessary facilities, the project would al8o
assist, through short-term TA consultancies in specialized
areas, in helping to establish such centers. Possible examples
of this approach includes virology at NIHORT and IAR&T;
nematology at NRCRI; biological control and integrated pest
management at NRCRI and IAR; soil and fertilizer management
studies at IAR&T. At negotiations assurances were obtained that
by December 31, 1991, FMST would designate a selected number of
institutes as centers of excellence for at least four specified
fields and reallocate resources to concentrate necessary
manpower and equipment for effective operations.
The project would also assist in the upgrading of the research
information system for both the users and providers of research
information. This would include establishment of a research
information center for exchange of information on acquisition
and holding of journals and books within the network of
Institute libraries; the location of such a center in the
research system would be identified during preparation of the
NRSP; and resumption of subscription to selected journals and
books considered essential for research. The use of the CD-ROM
technology, which has already been deployed with success at
FIIRO, would be gradually extended to other libraries to enable



. 24 -
researchers to have access to bibliographic databases. Both the
output and quality of research information would be enhanced
through improved facilities at publication units of selected
institutes and use of contractual arrangements with comercial
printers.
(b) Priority Research Programs (US$23.9 million). To focus research
on major problems which conform to national agricultural
development policy and priorities, a few targets have been
selected for immediate funding under the project after extensive
discussions with Nigerian research managers. The criteria used
in selecting these targets included: (i) relevance to current
farming systems; (ii) probability oP technical success and
ability to transfer research information to farmers within three
years; (iii) availability of qualified staff to undertake the
work; (iv) relative importance of the proposed commodity or
factor research in relation to the overall national policy. The
agreed priorities are briefly described in Annex 9, with more
detailed discussion of the subject included in Working Papers
6,7,8,9 and 10. Later, when the NRSP becomes available, the
research priorities would be fine-tuned to accord with its
recommendations. The project financing for the priority
research programs would largely be for recurrent costs, but IDA
contributions after the first three years would be gradually
decreased in proportion to increasing Government contributions,
expected to reach 1001 of the recurrent costs by the end of the
project (also see paras 5.04 and 5.05).
(c) Research-Extension Linkages Program (US$13.4 million). The
research-extension linkage system is currently unbalanced;
resources are available on the demand side (ADPs) but not on the
supply side (research). The proposed project would redress this
imbalance, giving high priority to strengthening research-
extension linkages, ensuring that farmer's problems are
reflected in the planning of research programs, and also
providing an effective channel for transferring/adapting
available research information for use by farmers. Funds would
be provided to FSR and AERLS units of the institutes: (i) to
make teams mobile enabling their participation in support of
OFAR programs and MTRMs and undertake diagnostic surveys
arranged by ADPs in their mandated areas; (ii) to purchase field
equipment and desk top computers for conducting and analyzing
adaptive research trials; anu (iii) for preparation and
dissemination of the backlog of research information. NAERLS
would be supported with vehicles and equipment to enable
implementation of its new mandate (para 3.28). In addition to
speeding up transfer of new research information to end users,
validating research findings and identifying production
constraints, the project would support a selected number of
pilot production and/or demonstration activities. Examples of
such activities include farm-level testing and demonstration of
smallscale implements and storage facilities, as well as
production of pure bred fingerling. The suggested guidelines for



- 25 -
the preparation of such proposals for financing under the
project are given in Annex 10.
V.  COSTS AND PIMCING
A.  Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs, including all identifiable duties and
taxes, over the seven year development period (1991-1997), are estimated at
K1,112.3 millic. (US$104.1 million) with a foreign exchange component of
602. The standard disbursement profile of agricultural sector rural
development projects in West Africa suggests that it would take eight years
to disburse the proceeds of the credit, of which 94? is usually disbtursed
by the end of the seventh year. However, it is anticipated that the
disbursement under the proposed project would be completed within seven
years, as nearly 802 of tne infrastructure rehabilitation and procurement
of goods and services would be completed within the first four years of
project implementation. A Project Cost Summary is given in the following
table. More detailed cost tables by component and type of expenditures are
provided in Tables 1-5 of Annex 10.
5.02      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of December 1989
prices, and adjusted to September 1990. Apart from costs associated with
technical assistance (where exact provisions are made), all other costs
have been estimated with a 102 physical contingency. Price escalation
factors follow forecasts of international inflation for foreign goods and
services and estimated annual inflation in Nigeria for local costs. Total
contingencies amount to approximately 19? of base costs and 16? of total
project costs. Annual inflation rates based on the departmental guidelines
were estimated as follows:
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997
Local          25       10      10      10       10      10      10      10
International  3.7      3.7     3.7     3.7      3.7     3.7     3.7    3.7



- 26 -
PROJECT COST a R
S Total
I. ISRRIN SYSTE DIVIPVT                 -Mu             ra 3)) U-          -JSB MIII Iou.-    U Poeilp   0a
Local     Fo p          T otal    Loeal   Forela   Totl       Eanhg   Cot
Natlonal Adv. Co.. on As. Reserch        5.1       8.0          8.1      0.0      0.8       0.9        57.0       1.
National Rosrch Strategic Plan          2.J        1.5           8.3     0.2      0.2       0.4        40.0       1.
27.0      10.0          45.0     8.0      2.1       6.1        40.0       5.
Res"each Grant Scheme                   22?       7.            3.        .       82       147.0                 12.
mums" Resource OevelopOt               22. ?      t.1           9f.S     2.6      1b.2     lO.         7.0       1
T chumacl Asoiutcnce                    1.7       17.0          10.6     0.2      2.0       2.2        94.0       8.
Subtotal                           50.8     118.4         172.3     0.0    12.3       10.4        06.0      20
*. USEAR) D6mTIe 9 SWORT
X- DIIRASTRUCIa RMnITATION
- 1. Food and fiber Crops              49.9      119.4         189.2     5.0    18.5       10.1        71.0      22
- 2. Tree cropS                        12.8       88.1         45.4      1.4      8.7       5.1        78.0      e,
- 8. Livestock                          6.7       81.1         ao.8      0.0      8.0       4.2        04.0       4.
- 4. F1shertes                          4.4       189.         298.      0.5      2.1       2.0        81.0       8
-  . Forestry and Environment           6.0       19.8         24.8      0.8      2.2       2.8        80.0       8
-  . Stored products                    8.0       10.2          18.2     0.8      1.2       1.5        70.0       2
A gro-processins                        0.7        8.0          4.8      0.1      0.4       0.5        88.0       1
neo               oo          _      o                   - -      - - -_---_-_ 
subtotai                           80.0     280.1         817.0     9.1    26.        88.0        74.0      41.
ESEARCN DeSTrTUTE SUPPORT
II- PRIM  RESEAC  PROGRAM
- 1. Food and Fiber Cropo              40.5      27.0          07.5      4.8      8.0       7.6       40.0        0
- 2. Tree Crops                        10.6      10.0           28.0     2.1      1.1       8.2       85.0        4.
- 8. Livestock                         80.1      10.0          40.1      3.4      1.1       4.5       26.0        C
4. Fisheries                          12.1       5.2           17.8     1.4      0.0       2.0       80.0        2
- 6. Forestry and Environment           9.2       8.9           13.1     1.0      0.5       1.5       80.0        2.
- 6. Stored produuts                   12.0       4.0           10.0     1.4      0.4       1.8       26.0        1
- 7. Agro-processing                    1.2       1.9           8.1      0.1      0.8       0.4       60.0        1
Subtotal                          123.?     02.0          186.?    14.0      7.0      21.0       88.0       24
LU- RESEARaffeaI  LDWACE
- 1. National Agrtc. Eat. Re..          8.2       7.8          15.0      0.9      0.9       1.8       48.0        2
Liaison Services
- 2. Food and Fiber Crops              26.6      80.0          68.0      8.0      8.4      6.4        53.0        7
- 8. Tree crop.                         5.2       7.0           12.2     0.6      0.8       1.4       C'.0        2
- 4 Fteheries                           8.4       4.7           0.1      0.4      0.5       0.9       57.0        1
- S. Forestry and Environment           1.7       2.4           4.1      0.2      0.8       0.5       58.0        1
-  . Nis. Stored Products Res. Imnt.    14        2.  40                 0 2      0.2       0.4       65.0        1
Subtotal                           40.5     54.8          100.6     6.S      0.1      11.4        54.0      14
Totl I-tt-2It                     251.1    862.4          60.5    20.4      3.0       60.2        54.0      79
TotalI B"os Lime Coot             300.0    465.8          775.?    85.0    62.0       07.0       600 7.0   1001.0
Pbylsatl C*DtImsntles                   14.0       .8           52.8     1.6      4.8       5.0       7.0         7
Priee Coatiecles                       12.8    160.6           284.8     4.0      6.0      10.0       57.0       12
Toal ProjectCast                       477.7    O64.0         UII.8    41.2    02.0    104.1          0o.0      W1
s~~~ - 



- 27 -
S. Proposed Financing Arraniemeats
5.03           Financing Plan.  The proposed credit amount of SDR 58.5
million (US$78.0 million) representing 75? of the total project costs, or
82? of project costs net of taxes and duties, would be financed by IDA and
charged at the standard terms interest over a 35-year period including a
ten-year grace period. The credit amount would finance 100? of foreign
exchange costs and 37Z of local costs. The Government would contribute
US$26.1 million, vhich is 252 of the total project costs. The proposed
financing plan for the project is shown belows
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA      FGN    Total
Civil Works                                     5.4      7.9     13.3
Plant, Equipment Vehicles
and Spare parts                              31.2      6.3     37.5
National Strategic Plan                         0.5       -       0.5
Research Grants                                 6.6       -       6.6
Technical Assistance and
Studies                                       2.4       -       2.4
Training                                       13.6       -      13.6
Priority Research Program                      18.3     11.9     30.2
Costs
Total Project Costs                78.0      26.1    104.1
Percentage                     75.0     25.0    100.0
5.04     Financial Implication for the Federal Government.  The project
represents a major part of the Government's overall strategy and investment
program to strengthen the agricultural research system in Nigeria. This
would require a long-term commitment from the Government and continuing
support from IDA. The incremental public investment required by the
project would increase gradually, reaching about N52 million (1990 prices)
per annum by the end of the project in 1997. In addition, the Government
would be required to maintain in real terms its estimated 1990 budget of
1141 million for the ASD and the research institutes. The total
incremental financial burden in relation to the estimated size of AGDP in
1997 (1205 billion) would only be about 0.22; a proportion currently being
contributed by the Government to support the research system. However, to



- 28 -
safeguard priority research programs against erratic or inadequate
counterpart funding during the adjustment period, the Government's
contributions towards the priority research programs in the early years of
the project would be kept to a minimum. Thus, the project would finance
the total costs of these programs for the first three years. Thereafter,
the Government's contributions would be increased gradually to reach 1002
by the end of the project. Prior to implementing the change in
disbursement ratios, however, a review would be undertaken to assess the
funding status of the system by the Government. The suggested financing
plan for the priority programs is shown belows
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PRORITY RESC POGRA       MI
Years    1      2    a    4    5      6      7      rand Total
FON Contribution      -     -    -   1.1  2.8  8.8   4.9           11.0
(U)                C-)   (-)  (-)  (25)  (50)  (76)  (100)       (B9)
MA Contribution     8.6   8.9  4.0  8.8   2.8  1.2    -           18.8
(X)                (100)  (100) (100) (75) (50)  (26)  (-)       (61)
Annual Total         8.6   8.9  4.0  4.4  4.6  4.6   4.9           80.2
5.05     The FGN contributions towards the project's overall incremental
costs are estimated to be as followss
ESTIMATED OVELL INCRBTAL FIN COW IONS TOMWARDS -E PROECT COSTS MM0 PROECT IW      ATIO
Ye'ar     1      2       8      4       5       6      7
In Yearly Amounts    (US M)   I.a    2.0    2.6    8.4    4.6    6.1       6.1
In Yearly (U                  (5)   (7.5)  (10.0)  (18.0)  (17.6)  (2$.6)   (28.6)
Cumulative           (USS U)    -     8.8    5.9    9.8   18.9   20.0    26.1
Cumulative (U)                 -    (12.5)  (22.6)  (85.5)  (58.0)  (?7.6)  (100.0)
At negotiations assurances were obtained that FGN would:  a) provide its
incremental contributions in line with the financing plan agreed with IDA;
b) maintain the 1990 value in real terms of its existing annual
agricultural research budget; and c) adopt each fiscal year a research
program and budget taking into consideration the views expressed by IDA and
be accounted for in the FMST annual budget.
5.06       The Project Account.  The IDA credit of US$78.0 million would be
made to the FGN with WTHS as the main beneficiary. In order to ensure
timely funding, FMST would open and maintain a Project Account in a local
commercial bank to receive project contributions from the Government. FMST
would disburse the funds to the institutes based on their approved work
programs and budgets. The advance would represent about three months of
their recurrent expenditures. FGN would pay its contributions quarterly in
advance, except for the first year's contribution of which 50 percent would



- 29 -
be paid in as an initial deposit. This would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
5.07       The Special Account.  A Special Account, to be maintained in
U.S. dollars and managed by FNST, would be established in a commercial
bank, with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million. Each of the Implementing
institutes would have a sub-account to receive advances from the Special
Account based on approved work programs and budgets. Advances would
represent about three months of eligible expenditures. Replenishment of
the sub-accounts from the Special Account would be made only on receipt of
all the documented expenses as approved by the Director and the Chief
Accountant of the institute concerned. The Director, ASD, may seek further
explanations or call for an audit if he deems this necessary before
replenishing the sub-account. Internal auditors of the FMST would carry
out periodic checks to ensure that sub-accounts are being properly managed.
In addition, an external auditor acceptable to IDA would audit the use of
the funds under the Special Account and the sub-accounts. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
C. Procurement
5.08      All goods and services financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement would be handled
by PMST except for small purchases under US$10,000 which the institute
directors would be able to authorize with the total value of such items
aggregating to no more than US$60,000 per institute. Foreign bidders are
unlikely to be interested in civil works as the capability and
competitiveness of local bidders would make it unattractive for them to
compete. In addition, the works would be spread geographically, individual
contracts would be relatively small and the nature, labor intensive where
the local contractors would have advantage. The civil works, therefore,
would be procured uslng local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA and would require approval either by the Govern'-L GOoards
of the Institutes (who have authority to approve designs and award
contracts worth up to N2 million) or 714T. For imported items, such as
vehicles, plant equipment and spare parts, contracts of US$500,000 or more,
would be awarded under the ICB guidelines. Contracts below US$500,000, but
above US$60,000, would generally be awarded through LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
US$60,000 or less, may be procured through price quotation from at least
three potential suppliers wlth the contract awarded to the lowest bidder--
total value of such items aggregating to no more than US$1.0 million. All
procurement under LCB (goods and civil works) will be required to
incorporate advertisements in local papers, public bid opening, awarded to
the lowest bidder on the basis of pre-disclosed criterion, no local
preferences would apply and foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participation. Financing of spare parts would be provided for both old and
new vehicles, equipment and machinery, aggregating to a total value of
US$3.5 million. Out of this aggregate, US$1.5 million would be for older
goods. Procurement for technical assistance consisting of consultancy
services and internationally-recruited experts, would be done in accordance
with IDA guidelines for the procurement of consultants. All technical



- 30 -
assistance staff (whether short-term or long-term) and consultants
recruited under the project would have qualifications, experience and terms
of reference acceptable to IDA. This would also apply to the working
groups to be established by PMST for the preparation of the NRSP. Local
and overseas training programs would be authorized as per annual schedule
agreed with IDA. Funding from the RGS to successful applicant would be
released according to the criteria and operating procedures agreed with
IDA. All bidding packages for goods and works over US$500,000 equivalent
would be subject to prior review by IDA and prior to awarding contracts,
recommendations would be submitted to IDA for eouments. The procurement of
goods and services under most of the categories (excluding the Priority
Research Program) representing up to 80 of the project funds, would be
subject to prior review by IDA. Prior agreement with IDA would, however,
be required on the: r) terms of reference of the NRSP and URDP; b)
individual grants to be financed under the RGS costing more than US$50,000
per annum and a total of US$150,000; and c) annual training schedules. The
procurement procedures for the Priority Research Program would be reviewed
by IDA on the basis of the work program to be prepared annually by FMST in
accordance with priorities outlined in Annex 9 of the SAR. The remaining
contracts would be subject to post-review after contract awards.
5.09      The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amount and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million) 1/
Total
Category                     ICB          LCB           Others       Costs
Civil Works                   -           13.3           -            13.3
(5.4)                      (5.4)
Plant, Equipment
Vehicles & Spare Parts       26.0         10.5           1.0          37.5
(26.0)        (4.2)         (1.0)       (31.2)
National Research                           -            0.5           0.5
Strategy Plan                              -            (0.5)         (0.5)
Research Grant Scheme         -             -            6.6           6.6
-            -            (6.6)        (6.6)
Technical Assistance          -             -            2.4           2.4
-            _            (2.4)        (2.4)
Training                                   -            13.6          13.6
(13.6)       (13.6)
Priority Research Program    -            10.0          20.2          30.2
Costs                         -           (10.0)        (8.3)        (18.3)
26.0         33.8          44.3        104.1
Totals                 (26.0)        19.6)        (32.4)        (78.0)
I/ Includes physical and price contingencies. Figures in parentheses are
the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 31 -
D. Disbursement
5.10      The IDA credit of US$78.0 million would be disbursed over a
seven year period. Disbursements against recurrent costs and purchase
orders, contracts and training programs of less than US$25,000 equivalent
would be submitted against statements of expenditures (SOE) and certified
by FMST.  Full documentation would be retained for inspection by the
Director of Finance and Supplies, PMST in the course of normal supervision
of the financial affairs of the project on behalf of the Government and by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The ASD would be responsible for
the preparation and presentation of withdrawal applications for all
categories of expenditures incurred under the project. All withdrawal
applications wnuld be signed jointly by the Deputy Director, NACAR
Secretariat, and the Director, ASD, or one other authorized signatory. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 11.
5.11      The proposed allocation of the credit proceeds and the
disbursement percentages are as followss
Amount to           2 of Expenditures
Category                           be Allocated            to be Financed
(US$ Million)
1.  Civil Works                         4.5              402 of all expenditures
2. Plant, Equipment,                   27.5              100X of foreign and
Vehicles and Spare Parts                             752 of local
3.  National Strategic Plan             0.5              1002
4.  Research Grant Scheme               6.5              1002
5.  Technical Assistance,               2.2              100?
and Studies
6.  Training                           13.3              1002
7.  Priority Research Program          15.0              100? until $9.0 million
has been disbursed; 752
until an additional $2.7
million has been disbursed;
502 until an additional
$2.0 million has been
disbursed; and 252
thereafter.
8.  Unallocated                         8.5
78.0
a



- 32 -
S. Audtint_ Accountina and Financial Reporting
5.12       Each participating institute, university and Federal Agency
would keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices
to reflect their operations and financial positions and would have the
accounts, including Special Account and SOEs, audited annually by a firm of
independent external auditors acceprable to IDA. The audited accounts and
the auditor's report, including the Marsgement letter (Long Form), and a
statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended
purposes would be submitted to the IDA within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
5.13       By September 15 of each year, institutes would submit to FMST
annual work programs and budgets giving details of the research programs,
training, procurement, and civil works constructions planned for the coming
year. The budget proposal would include quarterly cash flow statements.
Procurement of goods and civil works would specify sources of funds, timing
and procurement methods (whether ICB or other). FMST would examine,
approve and consolidate these proposals into one national program for
submission to the Ministry of Planning and Budget to agree on the level of
annual funding, financing plan, and allocation of resources to different
sectors of the research system. By November 15 of each year, a copy of the
approved national program and budget for the coming year would be submitted
to IDA by FMST for comments. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
VI. PROJECT IMPLDEENTATION
A.  Overall Organization and  ana4 emamt
6.01       General.  The responsibility for project implementation would be
with FMST which, through the ASD, would exercise overall control and
coordination. Execution of the core research activities would be
undertaken by the research institutes, with universities participating in
contractual research arrangements.
6.02       The NACAR.  It is envisaged that the NACAR, together with
improved research management systems, would be a permanent feature of
PMST's coordination and management of agricultural research. The
Chairperson of the Committee would be appointed by the Honorable Minister
of PMST. It would additionally consist of up to a maximum of ten members
including the Director, ASD, who would also be the Secretary of the NACAR.
With the exception of the Director, ASD, each member including the
chairman, would be appointed for a minimum of three and a maximum of six
years. The NACAR would meet as necessary but in the initial years of the
project, it is expected to be once in each quarter. The NACAR would also
be the project's steering committee and would be serviced by a secretariat
to be established in the ASD.



- 33 -
6.03     The Technical Sub-Committees.  On technical matters, the NACAR
would be advised by small sectoral Technical Sub-Committees, e.g. field
crops, tree crops and forestry, livestock and fisheries, to be established
by the NACAR with advice from FffST. The sub-committees would advise the
MACAR on scientific progress appropriate to their sectors. They would
review applications for funding under the Res'arch Grant Scheme and
recommend to the NACAR on those applications to be approved. More
information on the roles and responsibilities of the sub-committees is
given in Working Paper 1.
6.04    The ASD.  With the new Deputy Director taking on the
responsibilities for supporting the NACAR, the research management
procedures and implementation of the project, the existing two Deputy
Directors would be able to liaise more effectively with the research
institutes and guide their research activities. The Deputy Directors would
also be responsible for ensuring that the research institutes maintain
close collaboration with the extension services of ADPs and regional and
international institutions. The Director, along with the three Deputy
Directors would form the core management team of the ASD, working together
to strengthen and manage the research system.
6.05     The Deputy Director, NACAR, would have two Assistant Directors.
The principal functions of the first Assistant Director would be to provide
support for the KACAR and its technical sub-committees, and to administer
the RGS. He would also ensure that all actions relating to financial,
procurement and disbursement matters are undertaken according to the agreed
schedule and Bank guidelines. In overseeing financial aspects of the
project, he would be assisted by the financial advisor to be provided under
technical assistance. The second Assistant Director would coordinate
preparation of the first NRSP in accordance with the terms of reference and
time schedule agreed between PMST and IDA. In completing this task, he
would be assisted by the NRSP Advisor to be provided under technical
assistance. The other major function of this unit would relate to the
production of policy and strategy papers for the MACAR. This would include
work on economic issues relating to the research system which has largely
been neglected in the past. The economic work would be undertaken by
entering into contractual arrangements with other institutions in Nigeria
such as the Agriculture University at Makurdi. These studies would
strengthen NACAR's ability to advise the Minister on such issues ass
research policy; research strategies and priorities; resource management,
sustainability and environment; and constraint analysis. This unit would
also oversee adoption of the new procedures including CAREMIS (see para
6.06(ii)) by the institutes, and collation of research proposals and cost
estimates into a national program and budget for submission to the
Director, ASD. For the introduction and development of CAREMIS, assistance
would be provided by the internationally-recruited Research Management
Specialist. To fully utilize expertise available within FMST and ensure
close liaison between the MACAR Secretariat and other departments dealing
with the Ministry's finance, supplies, personnel, planning and statistics,
wherever appropriate, staff from these departments would be seconded to
work in the Secretariat.



- 34 -
D. Research ManaRement SYstems Develoment
6.06     The improved management systems to be introduced under the
project are described in detail in Working Paper 2. The salient features
are briefly described belows
(i) Setting Research Priorities. Under the project, decisions on
priorities would be taken at the center as well as in the
institutes. The strategic decisions, to be taken by FMST, on
advice from the NACAR, would decide on the balance of spending
between priorities; for instance, crops and livestock or, within
crops, between food and tree crops. Some of the criteria used at
this level, primarily qualitative but backed by appropriate data,
would include: present and projected importance of the commodity
to Nigeria, potential for productive national research, and likely
impact on the farming community.
The tactical decisions on priorities, to be taken at the institute
level, would be the responsibility of members of the Governing
Boards, Directors, Departmental Heads and program leaders. At this
level, the research experiments and projects for financing under
the program budgets proposed by FMST would be ranked for
determining priorities using checklists. This would include the
scientific merit, farmer needs, economic and social factors that
need looking at in assessing the priority or otherwise to be given
to a project. The user influence (farmer needs) on priority
determination would come through the joint recommendations of the
OFAR teams, diagnostic surveys and the MTRMs. Research needs
established through these programs would receive a high priority
rating in the checklist. The checklist would give a figure which
allows projects to be initially ranked in descending order of
priority. All project descriptions submitted to the ASD would
include a completed priority checklist to enable independent
validation of the priorities by the NACAR. The priority rankings
would be reviewed every two to three years (Working Paper 2,
Appendix 1).
(ii) Planning, Programming and Budgeting. Forward planning would be a
regular feature of the new system. It would take the form of
strategic planning with due consideration of the Government's
policies and objectives for agriculture projected as accurately as
possible five years ahead, thus leading to a five year plan as
envisaged under the NRSP (para 6.10). This would also provide the
basis for preparing the three year rolling budget plan as required
by the Ministry of Planning Budget.
Based on an indication of funds likely to be available for the
following year, the annual planning cycle (see Annex 7) would begin
with FMST, based on recommendations from the NACAR, deciding on
allocations of funds on a sectoral and institutional basis, with an
indication of the priority to be accorded to different commodities
and factor research programs. This information would be passed on
to the institutes, where the Governing Boards would determine the



- 35 -
size of each departmental budget. From these, the Heads of
Departments and the institute research revlew committee would
decide on the size and outline objectives of each project. Later,
the individual projects would be described more fully in accordance
with the procedures required for the current agricultural research
management information system (CAREKIS), in which the research is
described in defined units to which costs would be attached. The
units of research and their associated costs can be added together
to give descriptions of the research, and costs, at several
different levels in the research system, e.g., scientist level,
departmental, institutional or whole system level. CAREMIS is
described in more detail in Appendix 2 of Working Paper 2. The
NACAR Secretariat would be responsible for introducing and
coordinating the use of CAREMIS system. The introduction of the
system would be phased in over the project period, starting with
the ASD and a selected number of the research institutes.
(iii) Financial Management and Accounting. The budgetary and accounting
procecures of the research institutes follow FGN accounting rules
and would continue to do so. However, to serve the financial
management and accounting needs of the reseach system, CAREMIS
would allow clearly identifiable costing of individual research
activities. Initially, it would include staff costs, small items
of equipment purchased for a specific activity and direct
operational expenses attributable to the relevant research
activity. At a later date, as the ASD and the institutes gain
experience and become familiar with the costing system, it would be
refined and extended to include capital costs and overheads so that
the true cost of research could be calculated. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that be December 31, 1994, the new costing
system would be operated by the ASD to account for the total cost
of research.
C. Iositoring and Evaluation, Eternal Reviews and Reporting
6.07    Day-to-day or other short-term monitoring and evaluation of the
research would continue to be the responsibility of each institute Director
and his senior colleagues. Overall monitoring and evaluation of the
agricultural research would be undertaken by the NACAR Secretariat with the
assistance of the other two Deputy Directors in the ASD, and would assess
progress against the original objectives and other agreed criteria such as
timeliness, output, relevance, etc. Data from CAREMIS, when available,
would provide a sound basis for monitoring and evaluation of research.
6.08    In addition, the management and performance of the research
programs of the institutes would be subjected to external reviews. This
process, to be organized by the ASD in consultation vith the NACAR, would
start from the third year of the project and cover three or four institutes
each year, in accordance with a schedule and terms of reference to be
prepared as part of the NRSP. The review panels would comprise experienced
scientists and managers from Nigeria and overseas with appropriate
expertise. Each institute to be reviewed would prepare a report and



- 36 -
assemble documents necessary to assist the review work. The selected
review panel would be agreed with IDA. The MACAR, with assistance from the
management team of the ASD, would monitor implementation of recommendations
of the external reviews. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
6.09    Twice a year, the institutes would submit progress reports to the
ASD. This would include a brief mid-year status report, followed by a full
annual report using a uniform format and content specified by FMST in
agreement with the NACAR and IDA. Based on these reports, the NACAR
Secretariat would prepare six monthly and annual progress reports on the
national system, including comments on both the project's physical and
financial progress and scientific achievements. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that starting from January 1, 1992, the progress
reports on the national system would be submitted to IDA by the ASD within
two months after the end of each reporting period and subsequent work would
be carried out taking IDA's comments into account.
D. National Research Strategy Plan (MRSP)
6.10    To prepare the NRSP, the Director, ASD, in consultation with the
Chairman of the NACAR, would appoint a series of sub-committees or working
groups, as appropriate, decide on their composition, terms of reference,
time frame and reporting arrangements. Some of the working groups would be
aided by consultants provided as technical assistance under the project.
The Deputy Director, NACAR Secretariat would be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the NRSP. This would be the first
strategic plan in a series of revised five-year rolling plans, within which
the research programs would be developed. Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations that before March 31, 1993, the NRSP would be jointly reviewed
by PMST, NACAR, and IDA to agree implementation of its recommendations.
R. Research Grant Schem (RGS)
6.11    The first set of applications for funding under this scheme would
be invited at the start of the second year of the project. Grant
applications would be received by the NACAR Secretariat, then passed on to
the appropriate technical sub-committee of NACAR for evaluation. Finally,
these will be presented to the MACAR for approval along with comments from
the technical committee. Grants would normally be made for three years,
with progress reviewed annually. Funds provided under the grant would be
eligible for the purchase of experimental materials, labor, travel and
subsistence, consumables and small items of equipment. The RGS would not
finance any civil works or large capital items. Further details of
procedures for operating the RGS are given in Working Paper 3.
Effectiveness of the RGS would be the subject of evaluation during the mid-
term project review. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
first ten applications for funding under the RGS would be jointly reviewed
by FMST and IDA prior to approval by the NACAR and agreement reached
regarding future review process.



- 37 -
F. Tecbnical Assistance and Traini
6.12    Short-term consultants and long-term technical assistance staff
would be attached to the NACAR Secretariat in the ASD. The three
internationally-recruited advisors - Research Management Systems, NRSP
Development and Finance - would act as advisors to Nigerian counterparts.
the advisors would be selected by FMST in consultation with the NACAR, and
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
6.13    In the initial stages of the project, the focus of the training
program would be on research management procedures for senior and mid-
level managers and research methodologies for technical support staff.
Training in procurement, accounting and financial management systems would
be provided to administrative support staff. At the same time, the FMST
appointed team of experts would start preparing a medium- to long-term
Human Resource Development Plan. The Deputy Director, ASD, responsible for
training activities would coordinate this study in close liaison with the
NRSP preparation team. The training programs would be governed by the
Human Resource Development Plan after it has been completed and its
recommendations accepted by FMST and IDA.
6.14    Coordination of the training programs would be undertaken by one of
the Deputy Directors in the ASD. His responsibilities would also include
placement and servicing of trainees. If so required, he would be assisted
by consultants in the coordination and implementation of the training
program. Based on requests received from the research institutes, he would
specify the requirements for each category of training and, if appropriate,
invite local institutions to submit proposals, specifying course content,
training methods, tutorial staff, timing and budget.
6.15    Short-term training courses for research managers, scientific and
support staff would commence soon after the project becomes effective and
be largely conducted within Nigeria. Funding for M.Sc. and Ph.D. courses
would mainly be after priorities set in the NRSP and HRDP are known, which
would decide the choice of disciplines and the number of staff to be
trained. Appropriate candidates for training would be proposed by the
institutes for review and selection by the ASD, who would also seek and
facilitate twinning arrangements between Nigerian and overseas
institutions, so that a Ph.D student could spend from 12 to 18 months at
the overseas institution to meet the residential requirements and complete
the thesis while undertaking the research work in Nigeria. In all cases,
the subject for research work would be selected to ensure relevance to the
Nigerian agriculture. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
starting from March 31, 1991, the annual training plan would be agreed with
IDA.
G. Research Institute Strengthening
6.16    Infrastructure Rehabilitation.  Annual rehabilitation plans
developed by the institutes would be reviewed by IMST prior to submission
to IDA, along with annual research programs and procurement schedules. All
rehabilitation work would accord witb the recommendations of the NRSP when



- 38 -
available. Progress made in implementing the concept of centers of
excellence (para 4.05(a)) would be assessed during the mid-term project
review.
6.17    Priority Research Programs.  The operational funding requirements
of the priority programs would be finalized by PMST, based on research
programs agreed with the institutes. Formulation of specific experiments
would be the responsibility of scientists. The focus of crop research
would be to screen prospective varieties and other technologies under the
predominant farming systems to improve on current practices. The tree
crops research, in addition to screening and selecting improved
hybrids/varieties/clones, would include work on tree crops/food
crops/livestock and mixed farming systems aimed at developing profitable
and environmentally sound systems, especially in the more densely populated
parts of the forest zone. Livestock production research would look for
improved practices to conserve forage and pasture species and utilize crop
residues as feed. Epidemiological studies would enhance understanding of
the impact of major animal diseases on productivity and development of cost
effective strategies for their control. Fisheries research would support
increases in fish production through aquaculture. Forestry research would
assist in increasing fuelwood and industrial wood supplies and
environmental protection through development of improved forest management
and agro-forestry practices. Research would be undertaken to extend
storage life of perishable products and to increase utilization of locally
produced staples. Studies to adapt cost-effective soil and water
conservation practices to Nigerian conditions would be a high priority area
of research. Focus of the research-extension linkage program including
Farming Systems Research, would be to adapt and transfer research findings
to the needs of both the male and female farmers practicing mixed, as well
as, sole cropping, to identify technical and socio-economic constraints to
adoption of new technologies, and to ensure that farmers' perceived needs
are reflected in the research programs. More details on priority programs
are given in Annex 9.
H. National and International Linkages
6.18    Research-Extension.  The FSR teams would undertake high priority
on-farm research, linking it closely to farmers needs. The AERLS units of
the institutes, would become the main contact point with the ADP extension
services. They would prepare and distribute the backlog of research
information through printed leaflets, workshops and arranging audio-visual
demonstrations. The NAERLS would work to its new mandate focussing on
research methodologies, especially the use of mass communication techniques
in extension programs, training of managers and extension workers and
dissemination of research information of national significance.
6.19    Under the proposed Memorandum of Understanding between ADPs,
Research Institutes and FACU (para 3.35(d)), the ADPs wouldt (a) conduct
MTRMs; (b) undertake OFAR trials and organize small plot adoption trial
sites (SPATS); (c) provide financial support to research staff and other
resource persons participating in MTRMs; (d) assist in diagnostic surveys;
and (e) maintain a small on-farm adaptive research unit in each ADP.



- 39 -
Research Institutes would provide technical expertise for the program and
FACU would monitor implementation and organize evaluation of the linkage
program using NAERLS or other appropriate agencies.
6.20    Research Institutes - Universities.  The proposed project
recognizes the importance of strong links between institutes and
universities, and includes several mechanisms to encourage a greater
involvement of universities with faculties of agriculture and recently-
established Universities for Agriculture in research. These include:
(a) representation on the NACAR to influence overall research coordination,
prioritization, and allocation of resources to various sectors; (b) access
to funding under the RGS for specific time bound research proposals, either
independently or jointly with a research institute; (c) funding of specific
contractual research arrangements between participating universities and
institutes; and (d) financing of human resource development activities at
the post-graduate level in selected universities.
6.21    International and Regional Collaboration.  Linkages with key
international centers dealing with Nigeria's main crops and with livestock
exist already. These would be strengthened by more frequent visits by
Nigerian scientists, participation in the international research programs,
acquisition of improved germplasm, and training programs coordinated by
these centers. The possibility of contractual arrangement with individual
centers for backstopping of specific programs on an on-going basis, e.g,
crop protection research by ICIPE, would be explored in relation to the
needs of the system. To enhance efficiency of research and to make full
use of opportunities arising from the regional activities of the
International Agricultural Research Centers, linkages between the Nigerian
scientists and their counterparts in other countries would be encouraged.
The areas offering opportunities for such collaboration include forestry,
cereals, tree crops and root and tuber crops. Financing for such
collaborative activities would be available under the Research Grant
Scheme, but the selection of specific programs and final decisions to enter
into collaborative arrangement would be taken by the Nigerian research
managers. If lasting benefits at regional and national level are to accrue
from regional cooperation, commitment to such initiatives must be long
term.
I. Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
6.22    A Mid-term review would be uidertaken jointly by the Government,
the NACAR and IDA. To facilitate chis review, the ASD, with assistance
from the NACAR, would prepare a mid-term review report. This report would
be distributed to all participants at least four weeks prior to the start
of the joint review. The group would review progress in: (a) development
and application of improved research management procedures and practices at
the ASD and at institutes; (b) implementation of the recommendations of the
NRSP, particularly with regard to the rationalization of the research
institutes, and sub-stations and implementation of the priority research
programs; (c) training programs in research and research management; (d)
rehabilitation of institutes; and (e) implementation of the Research Grant
Scheme. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that a joint



e 40 -
GovernmentlNACAR/IDA mid-term review would be undertaken no later than
December 31, 1994, to monitor progress of the project and provide mid-term
corrections.
6.23    The project completion report would be prepared with two major
thrustss (a) achievements of the project and its impact in relation to its
objectives; and (b) a scientific and management review of the ASD, research
institutes and the NACAR. The review group would be chaired by an eminent
Nigerian, who is not a member of NACAR, include two further eminent
Nigerian scientists from outside the research system and would be aided by
two international scientists experienced in such work, employed on
technical assistance from one of the international centers or SPAAR
members. Logistical support will be provided by PMST from outside the
NACAR secretariat, and PMST would also make all arrangements for the
review.
6.24    Emphasis would be on the amount of research completed that has led
to improved methods adopted by farmers. The group would assesss (a) the
extent to which improved research management procedures have been adopted
and used as routine; (b) the imp ct these have had on the effectiveness of
research; (c) the impact of ext rnal reviews of institutes and the extent
to which their reconmendations ..ave been implemented; (d) progress and
impact of the NRSPs (year 6 s. )uld see production of the Fourth NRSP); and
(e) progress with the Research Grant Scheme. In the light of its findings,
the project completion report would make recommendations for the future
conduct of the national agricultural research system. The project
completion report to be arranged by FMST and prepared by independent
consultants would include scientific and management review of the project
with terms of reference to be agreed with IDA and the report would be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after completion of the project.
J. Implementation Schedule
6.25    During the first two years of the project, the emphasis would be on
the establishment of new research management systems, including operations
of the NACAR and its secretariat, establishment of technical sub-
committees, introduction of improved research planning, programming and
budgeting, financial and cost accounting procedures. The preparation work
on the NRSP and the HRDP would commence during the first year of the
project. Implementation of their recommendations would commence as soon as
these have been reviewed and agreed by FMST and IDA. The three long-term
technical assistance advisors (Research Management Systems, Research
Planning and Financial Management) would be engaged at the start of the
project. Short-term consultancies to support various specialized
activities would be procured as and when required throughout the project
period.
6.26    During the first two years, the emphasis of the training program
would be on short-term courses for the senior staff on the management of
the research system, for technical support staff on experimental procedures
and maintenance of equipment and for administrative staff on accounting and
finance. The main thrust of training for M.Sc. and PhD courses would



- 41 -
commence on completion of the NRSP and the HRDP. Short-term attachments
for scientists at selected centers of excellence outside of the Nigerian
research system would be spread throughout the project period.
6.27    Limited civil works and infrastructure rehabilitation to be
financed would be completed within the first three years. Work on the half
finished buildings to be completed under the project at NCRI, LCRI and
NSPRI would commence during the first year of the project. The majority of
vehicles, field and laboratory equipment would be procured during the first
three years of the project as per procurement schedules agreed between the
ASD and IDA in advance. Procurement under the project would be
administered by the NACAR Secretariat.
6.28    Changes in the research programs of the institutes to reflect
agreed priorities would be introduced in the research planning cycle to
commence during the first year of the project and would accord with the
recommendations of the NRSP when completed. Applications for financing
under the RGS would be invited from the second year onwards. A bar chart
showing implementation schedule for key activities is given in Annex 12.
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTMICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.01    The proposed project would ensure that full benefits are derived
from Nigeria's past large investments in developing the agricultural
research infrastructure and trained manpower. It would result in major
improvements in the management of the system leading to more efficient and
effective utilization of resources allocated to research. Under the
Project, new procedures would be put in place for determining research
priorities and for allocating resources among and within programs.
Additional major benefits of the Project would be to enhance the quality of
research and understanding of farmers' needs and abilities through improved
research-extension linkages. The Farming Systems Research work would pay
special attention to overcoming constraints and problems faced by
smallholders including women farmers, who play an important role in
Nigerian agriculture. The proposed Project would complement the ADPs and
other Bank supported activities in the agricultural sector, whose success
so heavily depends on the constant flow of viable new technology from the
research system.
7.02    An economic rate of return calculation for this type of project,
with its emphasis on institutional development, has little meaning. The
technological improvements, the rate and extent of their adoption by
farmers and the productivity and output gains due to their application
cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary significantly across
the agro-ecological zones. Moreover, future gains in productivity would be
attributable not merely to the adoption of technological innovations, but
to the combined impact of various support services (input supply, credit,
extension, etc.), as well as to that of the general macroeconomic
environment. It is, therefore, intended that the NACAR's planning unit,



- 42 -
with the assistance of a suitably qualified Nigerian institution, would
develop a reliable data base for generating an indicative analysis of the
economic returns to various programs, not only as a planning tool but also
for adjusting research priorities among and within research programs. Data
collection would commence during the first year of the project and
calculations of economic returns on selected programs would be undertaken
during 1993.
7.03    The justification for the proposed level of additional research
expenditures is reinforced by ex post evaluations of investments in
agricultural research, in both developed and developing countries which
have shown high returns, exceeding 402 in most cases. 51 A recent cross-
country comparison of East and West African countries suggests that
similar, but somewhat lower returns, have been obtained in some of these
countries and concludes that these are sufficiently attractive to justify
further investments, particularly when coupled with improved extension. 61
Nigeria, whose agriculture is an important part of the economy, must have
access to constantly advancing agricultural technology, to provide food for
its growing population, improve rural incomes and diversify its sources of
foreign exchange earnings. Even imported technology when available
requires national capacity for testing and, in most cases, modification and
adaptation to the local environment, and the country cannot afford to be
without an effective research service.
7.04    The project would also lead to significant institution-building
through its focus on the strengthening of the research system and a large
training program. The NRSP, to be prepared under the project, would
provide a suitable framework for the implementation of this strategy. In
addition, strengthening of research-extension linkages would enhance
relevance of work at all levels.
B. Risks
7.05    The main risk facing the project is the inherent unpredictability
of scientific research, Where success may not be guaranteed. Other risks
relate to: (a) the responsiveness of the Nigerian research system and its
administration to the basic institutional reforms needed; and (b) adequate
and predictable funding of research. To safeguard against these risks.
Bank funds are being targeted at priority targets and a Memorandum of
Understanding was signed by IMST and IDA agreeing to implementation of key
changes in the institutional arrangements to improve overall coordination,
management of research, and to strengthen client influence on research
5/ Evenson R.E. and Kislev Y., Agricultural Research and Productivity,
Yale University Press, New Haven & London. 1975.
61 Evenson, R.E. "Agricultural Research and Extension in Eastern and
Southern Africa: Comparisons with West Africa and Other Development
Regions' December 1986. A consultant paper prepared for the Regional
Workshop on Agricultural Research in Eastern and Southern Africa,
Nairobi, Kenya, December 11-16, 1986.



- 43 -
policy and programming. Implementation of chngoes in research management
and  improvement in quality of research would be reinforced through
provision of expertise to the Government In critical areas, establishment
of close links with the CGIAR International Centers, and early emphasis on
training of senior managers in the research management procedures.
Involvement of the universities In support of the research system through
the ROS, intensive local screening of research proposals, periodic external
review of institute management and research programs would further improve
the quality and relevance of the research programs. At the same time,
IDA's future lending operations aimed at further mproving incentives to
farmers, input supplies, credit, extension and marketing should increase
adoption of research findings by farmers. The Government's commitment for
increased funding of the research system would be reinforced through the
Bank's sector and economic dialogue with the Government.
C. Environmental Effects
7.06    Research to develop technologies which safeguard the agro-ecosystem
and enhance sustainability of agriculture would be given high priority.
This would include research on: simple and cost-effective techniques for
soil and water management, such as contour planting and use of vegetative
barriers; mixed and/or rotational cropping systems to maintain soil
fertility under low input agriculture; integrated agro-
forestry/crops/livestock land use systems which safeguard the environment.
The increaced use of tolerant varieties when available and development of
integrated pest management systems would minimize the use of agricultural
chemicals for pest and disease control.
VIII.  AGREBNENTS REACHED AND
8.01    During negotiations with the Government, agreements were obtained
on the followings
(a) the commercial vaccine production activity currently managed by
NVRI would be made independent of the research institute by
December 31, 1991 (para 3.35(e));
(b) by December 31, 1991, FMST would enter into agreements with at
least three Nigerian universities to finance upgrading of training
facilities and to train the training staff (para 4.04(d));
tc) by December 31, 1991, PMST would designate a selected number of
institutes as centers of excellence for at least four specified
fields and reallocate resources to concentrate necessary manpower
and equipment for effective operations (para 4.05(a));
(d) the FGN would maintain the 1990 value in real terms of its
annual agricultural research budget and provide incremental
contributions in line with the financing plan agreed with the



- 44 -
Bank, adopt each fiscal year a research program and budget,
taking into consideration the views expressed by IDA and be
accounted for in the PMST annual budget (para 5.05);
(e) FMST would open a Special Account denominated in U.S. dollars
with each of the implementing institutes having a sub-account to be
used to prefinance goods and services reimbursable under the credit
(para 5.07);
(f) by November 15 of each year, an annual national research
program, budget, and procurement schedule for the coming year,
approved by IMST, would be submitted to IDA for agreement (para
5.13);
(g) by December 31, 1994, the new costing system would be operated
by the ASD to account for total cost of research (para 6.06
(iii));
(h) with regard to the external reviews (paras 6.07 - 6.09)s
Mi)  each review panel consisting of Nigerian and overseas
experts and their terms of reference would be agreed
with IDA;
(ii)  at least three months prior to the commencement of a
review, the institute concerned would prepare a report
and assemble necessary documents for the review panel;
and
(iii)  NACAR would monitor implementation of recommendations of
the external reviews;
(i) six-monthly (mid-year) and annual (end of the year) progress
reports would be submitted to IDA by the ASD within two
months after the reporting period starting January 1, 1992 and
subsequent work would be carried out taking IDA's comments into
account (para 6.09);
(j) the NRSP would be jointly reviewed by NACAR, FMST and IDA to agree
implementation of its recommendations before March 31, 1993 (para
6.10);
(k) the first ten applications under the Research Grant Scheme would
be reviewed by FMST and IDA prior to approval by the NACAR and
agreement reached about future review process (para 6.11);
(1) long-term internationally recruited technical assistance staff
would be engaged according to the agreed schedule in accordance
with IDA guidelines, which would also apply to short-term
consultants
(para 6.12);



- 45 -
(m) an annual training plan would be agreed with IDA annually by
March 31, 1991 and would accord with the recommendations of the
HRDP, when available (para 6.15);
(n) a mid-term review would be undertaken by a joint team from the
GovernmentlNACAR/Bank, no later than December 31, 1994, to
monitor progress of the project and provide mid-term corrections
(para 6.22);
8.02 The Condition of credit effectiveness would be that FMST has opened a
project account and FGN has credited 50 percent of its first year's
contribution as an initial deposit (para 5.06).
8.03 With above agreements and assurances the project would be suitable
for a IDA credit of SDR 58.5 million (US$78.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with a thirty-five year maturity.
AF4AG
May 15, 1991



* - ~~46-
Page Ilof 3
NATIONAL AGRICULR   RESEARCH PROJECT
LIST OF AGRICULR TRAL RSEARC  INS-TITMS UNDER TE FEDER
SINITRY o  SCIENCE AND TECINOLOGY AND THEI MNDATES
INKSTITTE NAME                                    NEW MNDATE
InstitRte of Agricultural Research        (a) Research into sorghum,
(IAR) Saaru, Zaria.                      groundnuts, covpeas, cotton, sun
flower; and
(b) Total farming systems for the
ecological zones covered by lano,
Sokoto, Katsina, Kaduna and Bauchi
States.
Lake Chad Res. Institute (LCRI),          (a) Research into Millet, Wheat
Maiduguri.                                and Barley; and
(b) Total faraing systems for the
ecological zones covered by Borno
and Gongola States.
National Cereals Research Inst.           (a) Research into rice, soya-
(NCRI), Badeggi.                         beans, benniseed and sugar cane;
and
(b) Total farming systems for the
ecological zones covered by Ewara.
Plateau, Niger, and Benue States
and Federal Capital Territory.
Institute of Agricultural Research        (a) Research into maize, kenaf and
and Tralaing dART), fle-Ife.              jutes
(b) Research and coordination of
research finding in soil fertility
fertilizers. and agro-chemicals;
(c) Total fanming systems for the
ecological zones covered by Lagos,
Ogun, Oyo, Ondo and Bandel States.



- 47 -
AMex 1
Page 2 of 3
National Root Crops Research              (a) Research into cassava, yam,
institute (NRCRI). Umudike,               coco-yame, irish potato,  eet
Umuahia.                                  potato and ginger throughout the
country; and
(b) Total farming systems for the
ecological zones covered by
Anambra, Cross River, Iao and
River States.
Cocoa Research Institute of               Research into cocoa, caghew,
Nigeris (CRIN), Ibadan.                   coffee, kola and tea.
Rubber Research Institute of              Rubber tree research.
Nigeria (RI.R1) Dynamo, Benin
City.
Nigerian Inst. for Oil Palm               Research into oil. raphia date
Research (110OR), Benin City.             coconut and ornamental palms.
Forestry Research Institute of            Research into forestry, agro-
Nigeria (FRlI), Tbadan.                   forestry and wild life.
National Institute for                    Research into fruits and
Horticultural Research (14ORT),           vegetables.
Ibadan.
National Animal Production                Research into improved large and
Research Institute (NAPRI). Zaria.        small ruminants production
methods.
Nationl Veterinary Research               Veterinary Research.
Institute (MVRI), yem, Joe.
Nigeria Institute Trypanosomlasis         (a) Research into the tse-tse
Research (MIT) R   Kaduna.                sector of animal and human
trypanosomiasiss and
(b) Research and study of
onclsocerciasis (river blindness).
Nigerian Stored Products Research         Research into storage systems for
Institute (NISPRI) Lagos.                 agricultural produce.



- 48 -
Page 3 of S
National Institute for Fresh Water       (a) Research Into all fresh water
Fisheries Risearch (NItF), New           fisheries; and
Bussa.
(b) Research Into long term
effects of man-made lakes on
ecology and enviroment throughout
the country.
Nigerian Institute for                   (a) Research into the geophysical
Oceanography and Marine Research         phenomena on the Nigerian land
(NIOMR), Victoria Island, Lagos.         mass and the contiguous ocean bed;
and
(b) Research into the brackish
water and marine fisheries.
Federal Tnstitute of Tndustrial          (a) Research into agro-industrial
Research Oshodi (FIIRO), Lagos.          and food processing technology;
(b) Food science and technology
generally with strong engineering
design and fabrication; and
(c) Micro-electronics research.
National Agricultural Extension          Overall planning and development
and Research Liaison Services            of extension liaison activities
(NAERLS) Samaru, Zaria.                  nationally; production of audio
visual material; national
training, conferences and
workshops; research into
technology transfer and adoption
process: publish a national
journal on extension.
Each of the agricultural research
institutes will maintain a
Agricultural Extension Research
Liaison Unit as an integral part
of the Institute for the purpose
of disseminating research results
to end users In their imediate
environments. There will be a
strong liaison between them and
the RAERLS.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



_ 49 .
-J
Pge 1 of 2
*~ ~ NTOA  AGIUTSALREEAC  POJ
SUGGESTED KEASKI- Or        NATIONAL AiSORY COI
FOR AMORIU=&L RStEA C
Ch2j& Ws Agriculturist or Agricultural Scientist Internationally 854
nationally known.
Other Nemberes Up to ten.
-         One each from  FNANR and Ministry of Educations
Directors General
ZOne representing Universities - Chalirm  of Association of Deans
of Agriculture.
-         Ocu representing the agricultural research institutes .
Governing Board Chairman
-         Two inependent .scientists, appointed on merit, but excluding
Institute Directeors.
-         One representing the Interests of the Ministries of Agriculture
and Natural Resources In the States - to be elected by States.
-         One representing the ADPs.
-         one from private sector, agro-industry or faming of the lvel
of Managing Director.
-         Director of Agricultural Scieces,   T?  mmber I Secretary.



-50 -
Page 2 of 2
TWS OF REFUMNCE OF THE ADVISORY COtEITTE
2.          To improve the overall focus of agricultural research in
relation to national policies and priorities, and to improve the coordination
between n98s as the generator of new technologies and FMAD          as the user of
these tecbnologies, it is proposed that an adivsory body be appointed to
advise the Minister of Science and Tecbnology on all matters pertaining to
agricultural research. More specifically this body woulds
i)          translate the national policy for agriculture into national
research priorities and advise on changes in emphasis over time;
ii)         deelop and revise annually a 5-year strategy for agricultural
research within which priority research programs are identified;
iii)        advise on the appropriate leel of research funding to
agricultural sectors and institutes;
iv)         reconmmnd changes in institute mandates and facilities in relation
to chaging agricultural and scientific needs, promote regular
review of institute activities and Initiate external reviews of
institutes at appropriate intervals;
v)          reiew research outputs and mechaims for effective application
of research findings;
vi)         appoint expert sub-comittees, chaired by appropriate Committee
mebers to adwvse the Committee on sectoral scientLfic issues in
agriculture related sciences and assist the Committee to manage
the Research great Scheme.
vii)        report anually to the Minister of Science and Tecbnology on the
activities of the comittee; and
viii)       carry out any other functions in relation to agricultural research
and its application as may be requested by the Federal Government
of Nigeria.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



.
- 51 -
Page 1 of I
2ElShA
NATICNAL AGRICITURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SFMARY JO9 DESCRIPTIONS OF KEY INCXRMMNTAL  StAfF MN TE
ACRICULTURAL SCIENCES DEPAIT"ENT. FEDERAL MINISSTY OF
SCIENCE AND tECWMOLOGY
Deputv Director
1.        The  MACAR Secretariat.  The principal duties of this job are to
provide the policy, strategy and administrative support for the MACAR, its
technical subcommittees and Research Grant Schemes and to assume
responsibility for preparation of the NRSP. He would provide the project
implementation unit to ensure that the project is implemnted in an orderly
and timely fashion in accordance with World Bank and FGM procedures and be
responsible for the introduction of new programing and budgeting
procedures at the institutes. At all times his work will be done in
collaboration with the other deputy directors: together they foum the
senior management team under the Director, ASD.
Assistant Directors
2.        Research. Planning. Monitoring and Protramming and ludetig.
The principal functions of this job are to ensure preparation of the first
NRSP in accordance with requirements, including the setting up,
coordination and report of all working groups; in this he will work very
closely with the TA Advisor. He will also be responsible for the
production of policy and strategy papers for the NACAR. Other major tasks
are to ensure compliance of institutes with the new procedures to be
introduced by the project, that timely instructions are issued to
institutes for preparation of project descriptions, experimental cost
estimates, progress reports, and that all these are returned on schedule
and collated and passed on to the MACAR Secretariat or DAS as appropriate.
He will be in charge of CAR(MS and its operation. He will work very
closely with the TA Research Managemet Specialist and other ASD units to
set up CAR4IS and the supporting computer system.
3.        NACAR. ROS and Iuolementation Suooort.  The functions of this
job are to provide support for MACAR, its technical sub-comittees and
administer the Research Grant Scheme. This will entail the preparation of
agendas, policy and strategy papers, organization of meetings, preparation
of meeting minutes and initiating any action required as a result of MACAR
decisions and the processing of grant applications, their preparation for
committee consideration and action arising therefrom. The other key
function is to assist in project implementation. He will ensure that all
disbursements, procuremnts, and financial management are in accord with
Bank and FGO procedures; that the project is implemented according to the'
agreed schedule.



-52-
Page 1 of S
NAT1ONL AGRIC7LTMRAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUGGESTED GDLIN-S FOR T   PREPARATION OF
THE NATONAL RESEARCH STRATEGY PLAM
A. Obiectives
4.        The principal objectives of the National Research Strategy Plan
(NPRSP) would be to Ui) provide a long term perspective based on changes
anticipated in factors (e.g. population growth, land use, income
distribution) which will influence demand for food and other agricultural
products in Nigeria during the nest 10 to 20 years, and within which the
research system will operatel (ii) provide a strategic research outline to
indicate where the long term perspective and shorter term government
priorities which it influences require changes in emphasis of amouUt and
kind of research; (iii) provide an authoritative and agreed framework for
future investment to rationalize the institutes of the Nigerian
agricultural research system: and (iv) identify the imediate and long term
skills the research system needs to support productive research.
3. Arrangements for PreUaring the NRSP
S.        The first NRSP could take upto two years to prepare from project
implementation and will define the strategies to be followed as well as
detail the actions arising therefrom so that it can act as a guide to
completing the project. Advice on different objective swill require the
appointment of working groups: their composition including specialists in
areas to be reviewed; timing of the appointment and terms of reference
would be decided by the Director, ASD in consultation with the NACAR and
the NRSP coordinator. Subsequent plans would address shorter term
strategic issues only, revising them annually or biennially as required.
C.   The MRSP
6.        To provide the necessary information and to enable NRSP to
complete its objectives, the following tasks would need to be carried out
and reported:
li)     development of scenarios for Nigeria 10 years hence
(population growth, demand for food and other
agricultural products, land use changes, resource
availability) to provide a framework for strategic
planning, setting priorities, deciding chages in the
agricultural research system etc. (If this work is
already done by PMANR, WMSP will have the information
it needs without undertaking this demanding task).



Page 2 of 3
(tii)    long term research strategies and changes in emphasis
required to met the needs forecast by the scenario in
(1M.
(iii)     consideration of the amber, size and location of the
institutes, and their mandate., and the chages in
theso required in relation to Nigrial's future needs
as identified in (ii) above.
(iv)     consideration of the function, location and cost of
substations and their possible links vith extension,
especially in relation to (iii) above.
tv)     review of organizational structures and procedures to
improve researchlextension linkages with a particular
ephasis on the mechanisms for improving far
influence on research.
(vi)     review of the plans to rehabilitate services,
laboratories and libraries at institutes, and report
on changes necessary to confom to future
requirements.
(vii)     identify the  amediate and long-term skill needs of
the research system in the light of chaging
priorities, etc., at (iLi) abow.
(viii)     establishment of the needs of the national
agricultural research system and F8ST for computers.
peripherals and software to satisfy requirements for
data analysis, for research management and for
info!mtion acquisition and dissemination.
(ix)     in conjunction with NACAR and FMST, to draw up a
schedule, and terms of reference, for extemal reviews
of research institutes.
(x)     examine the linkages between the Nigerian system and
regional and interational centers of excellence and
suggest sechanisms for further strengthening contact
at the operational level.
(xi)     in conjunction with ad  wocworking groups appointed as
necessary and research institutes characterize the
principal farming systems by agro-ecological zones,
identify major constraints and opportunities for
future agricultural growth and propose main research



- 54 -
Page S of S
priority research programs being funded by the project
and report on any chages in research strategy or
mphasos needed to meet national priorities and the
needs of famers.
(Xii)     to mbody the reports of all the working groups,
comittees, etc. in a National Research Strategy Plan
for implemntation by IKST.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



* 55 -
page I of a
-       RATIONAL AGRICU     L RESEARCH RET
SUGESTE GUDELINES FORL THE PREPARAION OF TU
MUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPIMET PLAU
A.   Obiectives
7.        The main objective of the Human Resource Development Plan (MUp)
would be tot (i) provide a long-term perspective on the skill needs based
on changes anticipated in the direction and requirements of the resserch
system: (ii) provide an authoritative and systematic framework for .
investment to enhance and broaden the quality and skill mix of the research
system staff and the environment they operate in; and (iii) outline
procedures and mechanism for cost effective implementation of the training
program.
B.   ArranRements for Presarina the HID?
S.        The first URDP would be prepared in close liaison with the
National Research Strategic Plan which would review the skill requirements
of the institutes in the light of changing priorities and resource
availability.
9.        The preparation of this plan would require the appointment of a
team with appropriate expertise from within as well outside of Nigeria.
This team would be identified by the Director of the Department of
Agricultural Sciences in consultation with the selected research institutes
and universities. The Deputy Director within DAS responsible for training
activities would coordinate the preparation work. He would also be
responsible for finalising the terms of reference (using the same
consultative process as used for the selection of the team), work plan and
reporting arrangements. The recomendation of ERDP would be the basis for
financing the training program under the project and revised nnually or
bi-anually as required.
C. Mgj .LDs Suggested Areas of Activities
10.       To provide the necessary information and to enable MtD? to
complete its objectives, the following tasks would need to be carried out.
and reporteds
(a) prepare an inventory of existing management,
professional/scientific, administrative and support staff
specifying job, grade, education, qualifications, skills and
experience of each;



- 56 -
56~A 
Page 2 of a
(b) indicate qualities and quantities of required staff categories
over a three year, five year and ten year period with
Indications of requirments beyond this period;
tc)  it should be based on and be In tune with the Natioal Research
Strategy Plan and take into account the research priority areas
of the NRSP to be implemented by the institutess
Cd) the assessment of manpower requirements should also take into
account the expected impact of present and future technological
development and nov approaches in task performance and
mnagemt:
(e) based on (a) to (d) above, knowledge and skills requiremnts
should be defined, together with number of positions required at
various stages in different categories, taking into account the
salary, budget constraints and priorities allocated under the
NRSP:
(f) compare the desired manpower demand established under point (e)
above, with the actual manpower structure and availability in
the institutes to develop a long-term manpower plan, including
training, recruitment, promotion, management and organization
development, revmuration and retirements
(') the plan should present different job categories in the research
institutes and indicate the main areas for the improvement of
knowledge and skills:
:h) it should also indicate the types of training relevant for the
different categories, the training plan (numbers and selection
of participants, timing, responsible training institutions) and
the training budget. It should constitute the basis for the
planning and implementation of training programs for the
different target-categories, e.g. managers. scientific staff,
teochniciansitechnologists and administrative support staff; and
ti) training facilities available within Nigeria should be reviewed
and if appropriate, make recouendtions for improvement.  It
should also identify cost effective mechanisms for involving
overseas institutions in meeting Nigerin needs.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



57 -                    Amext 6
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
NATIoN  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TEC N CAL ASSIStANCE
1.        One of the National Agricultural Research Project's principal
objectives, in addition to rehabilitating the infrastructure, would be to
introduce and apply methods proven elsewhere of setting research priorities
for managing the research, including procedures for prograing, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation, all adapted to the Nigerian conditions. This
would make the research programs more effective and responsive to farmers'
needs and national priorities. The knowledge base necessary to adapt and
implement these systems is not available in the country, so technical
assistance would be provided to help develop and apply these procedures.
In addition, the technical assistance advisors would train scientists and
research managers responsible for putting them into effect.
2.        Another demanding initiative under the project is preparation of
the National Research Strategy Plan which would guide the long-term
development of the research system and the shape of the research program
for the last five years of the project. The plan would require the
organization and coordination of a number of expert working groups
operating at the same time and provision of expertise not available in the
country. Long-term technical assistance will therefore be provided to
enable completion of the NRSP as an priority activity during the first two
yeaes of the project.
3.        The finacial management and accounting needs of the project
would require implementation of a new costing system for research
activities. In addition, the institutes would also require assistance in
handling the procuroent activities under the project.
4.        Initially, the expertise necessary to undertake these tasks
would be provided as technical assistance under the project. These would
includes
Lon-Term
(a)  Research Nanaaetet S&stems Develoonent Aditsor:  24 months over
Live years for an expert on research management with experience
on priority setting, planning and progranuing to assist the
NACAR Secretariat in FMST i establishing a procedure for the
research management system; his terms of reference will include
training of a small planning unit of scientists-administrators
experienced in conducting and managing research within the
ASric. Sciences Department; and cooperating as needed with the
TA appointed to lead development of the WNSP.



- 58 -
Pap 2 of S
(b)   5,W Devel2oM Ft Advisor   24 months in the first three years tO
lead the teams of scientists preparing the National Research
Strategy Plan sad assist the Deputy Director MAChA Secretariat
In planing  nd coordinating the preparation work and review of
teu completed report.
(c)  Financial MangMent Adv_so1:  36 months in the first four years
to assist the ASO and the research Lnstitutes in financial and
cost accounting, financial management infoation, budgeting,
procurement. and assets maintenance as It relates to the
participating agencies under the project;
Short-Tems
(a)  Research ftna&Lwnt Systems_ Develg_Mt:  26 ma  months spread
over three years (4 persons for 2 month each year + 1 extra
person for 2 months In first year) to assist the long-term
Research Systems Mangement Advisor in quickly installing the
new management procedures at selected target institutes, and
giving training in their use. Later, exteding the system  to
all institutes with appropriate training.
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation: 12 months over five years for an
ezpert with experience in monitoring and evaluation to assist
the PnS? in establishing a monitoring and evaluation system,
including the developmat and installation of a research
managemt infomation system to provide the means of managing
the research progrms at all lels; and to cooperate with the
Adviser, Research Management as needed.
(e)  Cogmuter-Iased Research MnasMnt Sstem:  8 months for an
expert on computer application, initially to assess the computer
requirments of the new research magement procedures and
mechanism  within 13T, data analysis and inomation
acquisition and disseination at the research Institutes; and
later to establish a computer-based research management system
and to train staff In computer use for this and other purpose;
and to cooperate with the TA leading IRSP preparation as needed.
(d) lluN    source DeveloMts  8 man moths over three years for
supporting short-term training of stafffrom the Secretariat at
INST, selected senior staff from the research lnstltutes at
AU6I or simlar Nigerian institution and to assist in the
developmnt of appropriate curriculum for specific short-term
courses.
(e) _ateral Re__-w  Of  gesearch Institutes:  26 man  onths for
exert to particlpato in external review  and to assist in the
planing and  Implemtation of such rviews.



- 59 -
P'age S of 3
(f) Soecialized Consultancies. 46 man months spread over the
project for specialized technical support to the research
lnstitutes; exact topics for oupport to be identifled during
project  ipleentation.
Local
(a)   ISRt and HtDP Develogments 42 man mnths for scientists and
other specialists to contribute to the development of the RaP
and BRDP, through work on sub-committees and working groups in
the first two years of the project.
(b)  External Reviews.  30 man months of consultancy from senior
scientists to assist preparation of the institute extemnal
reviews, the project mid-tern and terminal reviews.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



-60-
AM&7
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL AGllCULSURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROPOSED ANNUAL CYCLE OF RESEARCH PLANNING.
PROGRAMKING AND BUDGESING PROCESS
MONTH                       NACARIFMST                           Institute Governt-a
BoardL/Institute
January/March               From the Institutes$                 Scientiests prepare
progress and annul reports           progress reports,
to MACAR and IMST.                   review completed
program. Institute
prepares Annual
Report.
April/May                   NACAR Technical Committees           Heads of Depts.
review progress reports to           prepare descriptions
decide strategy to                   of project objective
recomend to NACAR for next           in light of earlier
year.                                review.
June/July                   Technical sub-comittee
recomendations available
to NACAR to adivie INST on
sector priorities.
coinoditylinstitute
allocations based on
provisional budget
indicaiton from Office of
Planning and Budget to
FMST.
July/August                 PMSS infoms institutes on            lnstitute allocation
provisional                          divided by Governing
institutelcommodity                  Board into
allocations and priority             departmental
programs.                            allocations. _r.dicat
priorities.



- 61 -
Annex 7
XONT8   -       IACAR.  W S                          Institute Governing
Board/Institute
August/September                                                 Institute Dept. head
informed of
departmental
allocations, request
scientists to prepar
experiments to
conform with project
objectives and cash
allocated.
September                                                        Experiment returns
made, costed,
consolidated as
institute program
forwarded to FMST.
SeptemberlOctober          Deputy Director, Research
Management and
Imlementation, Dept. of
Agric. Sciences, with help
as appropriste from Dept.
Finance & Supplies plus
Dept. Planning Research and
Statistics, PMST,
consolidate all lnst.
programs into one
organization program. IST
examine, approves &
fomwards to Office of
Planning and Budget.
November                   Any minor revisions In
Institute program
necessary, by agreement
PISTOPB.
December                    Program approved for                 Institute Governing
Implementation in January.           Boa-.ds and Institute
MACAR informed.                      informed.
AF4AG
October 3, 1990



- 62 -
Page I of 2
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUGGESTED GUIDELINES FOR TSE PREPARATION OF PILOS PRODUCTION
AND- DEMONSTATION ACTIVITIES
1.   Objectives
The proposal should clearly define key objective of the production
activity, e.g.. to assist transfer of research information of end
users, identify production constraints, etc.
2.  Rationale for Research Institute Involvement
This section should identify comparative advantage of the research
institute over other publicly funded or private "user  agencies and
should include assurance that the proposed activity is not
duplicating similar on-going coomrcial operations in the country.
3.   Detailed Description of the Proiosed Activity
Provide as much detail as possible to enable full analysis of the
merit of the proposed activity.
4.   Resources Reguirements
Provide breakdown of existing and incremental huma, physical and
financial resources required to undertake the task. Finacial
requiremnmt should include breakdown of investment and recurrent
budget over the full duration of the proposed pilot production
activity. It should be noted that the KAU can only finance the
lnvestment costs of the proposed operation.
5.  PricM& Policy
Proposed pricing policy for the recovery of operational expenses.
6.   Imsact PointslKev Indicators
In this section, describe criteria to be used to assess success of
the proposed activity.



* 63 *
n. : S
Page 2 of a
7.   12latihohing BIeenO Pilot PLo~ggtign anLd Libgjel  3d -User DeMand and
lenef it
Describe available info1mtion on demand for finished 'product' to
ossist decision to Invest In pilot production activity and benefits
likely to be derived by the end users.
8.   Commerclalization of )Iture Pilot Productlon Activlites
Indicate mechanism and time frame for identifying appropriate
agencies for transferring of mature pilot production activities for
full commercial exploitation.
AF4AG
October 3. 1990



- 66 .
Page I Of 11
NATIONAL A`RICULTURAL R!SEARCB SSRASEGY
USRRCH PRIRTIES
A.   Introduction
15.       When available, the proposed National Research Strategy Plan
(NRSP), in accordance vith Covernment's policies and objectives would
identify priorities and make recomandations for the allocation of funds to
different sectors of the research system. In the meantime to mseet the
urgent needs for research information and to focus research on priority
problems, an attempt has been to identify priority areas for imediate
support under the Bank assisted project. The process adopted for selecting
these priorities involved extensive consultations with the Nigerian
research managers and the use of the following criteria:
(a) relationship to the sectoral policies and objectives of the
Governmnt which gives a high priority to food crops;
(b) targets identified by the research institute staff based on
qualitative assessment of technical, social and economic
factors, e.g.. relative importance of crop, internal and/or
external demand and supply situation, potential for increasing
income and/or food security;
Cc) potential for transfer of research information to end users in
the contezt of his/her farming systems in the short to medium-
term;
(d) availability of qualified staff and other resources at the
institutes likely to be involved in the work; and
(e)  environmental sustainability.
B.   Al Overview of the Aaro-Lcolosical Setlina and De  Vlo_ment Potential
16.       Nigeria is a large country covering a number of agro-ecological
zones characterized by a steep north to south annual rainfall gradient
which is more than one millimeter per kilometer. The rainfall
characteristics determines the dominant crops and related agricultural
activities, but the heterogeneity of ecological conditions is reflected ia
the diversity of cropping patterns (see Map 1). The key features of the
major agro-ecological zones are briefly discussed belows
(a) Sahel (Semi-Arid). This zone occupies the north-east corner of
the country with about 500 mm of rainfall. 'he plains are
affected by cyclic fluctuations in lake lev"..s (Lake Chad) and
advances and recessions of the desert. The vegetation Is sparse



Page 2 of I1
annual grassland, woodland or shrubland, heavily grazed or
browsed. With no more than 90 growing days in a good year,
rainfed cropping 1i dominated by quick growLng millets mixed
with cowpeas. A greater range of crops, vogetables, wheat, are
8gro on the low lying (fadama) alluvial soils with dry season
irrigation. Other major economic actlvities includes
pastoralism with nomadic fulanL herds grazing the area from July
to September; fishing in Lake Chad. This zone represents a
fragile environment with low potential; it is drought prone with
poor soils. Future development should seek toS arrest
degradation through agro-forestry and vegetative system for
soil moisture conservation; greater use of fadama land; and low
input technology for improving crop productivity mainly based on
traditional farming systems.
Cb)  Sudan Savan   (Dry SuHtu_midJ.  This zone, formrly wooded
plain, extends across Northern Nigeria with sandy soils of low
fertility in east and somewhat more fertile fomatLons in the
centet-vest. Although anual rainfall ranges between 500 to
1000 m, droughts are canon.  This zone includes some of the
more densely populated parts of the country which has a
significant affect on land use leading to reduced fallow periods
and continuous cultivation in some areas. Traditional farming
system is a complex of agro-forestry. crops and livestock.
Mixed cropping systems predominate, built around main staples
sorghum and mLlet. Other crops grown in mixture include
cowpeas, groundnuts and cotton. Some maize is now beLng grown
in the more southern parts of the zone. Dry season cropping
with small scale irrLgation is coamon wlth rice, wheat and
.vegetables. The zone being tsetse free provLdes wet season
grazing for many transhumant fulani herds of cattle. The rate
of grazing renewal, however, is limited. A lot of the nutrient
reserves, especLally of N and P, are being exhausted through
more intensive cropping. The zone suffers from lack of
appropriate varieties and improved agronomic practices suitable
for small farmers, fodder and fuelvood shortage and declining
(soil fertilLty). Sustainable Improved lntegrated farmLng
system incorporating agro-forestry with nitrogen fixing
legumiDous shrubs, crops and livestock could provLde fodder,
fuelw'od, arrest degradation with improved soLl fertility.
Zxtension of fadama cultivation offers growth opportunity.
(c) Guinea Saveana (Sub-Humid to &umid Northern, Southern and
Derived Savanna). This zone is a complex of at least three sub
zones depending upon the rainfall pattern whLch varies between
1000 to 1750 m. The soils of zone are of medium fertility
intercepted by low fertility sandier soils in some parts. This
zone represents a transition from the northerm cereal-based



- 66 -
Annes 9
Page  of 11
qSonomy to the southern system based on root crops. The main
crops are sorghum, maize, rainfed rice, yam and cassava. Cotton
and groundnuts are common and important components of the mixed
cropping systems. Fulani herds of cattle, sheep and goats
migrate southwards into the zone at the start of the dry season
utilLaing crop residues. Risk of trypanosomiasis is signLficant
in the vicinity of water courses. However, due to increasing
grazing pressure, herds are remaining in these areas throughout
the year. With land in plentiful supply and favorable weather,
this zone has the greatest potential for development based on
yield enhancing technologies with maize, rainfed rice and cotton
leading the growth. Soybean, with the recent introduction of
suitable varieties, also now provides good opportunity for
future growth. The major impediments to rapid growth ares
shortage of labor at critical periods; poorly developed
infrastructure; and micro-nutrient disorders. With ready access
to animal draft power many farmers can increase their area under
cultivation. but tsetse fly problem limits increase of oz
cultivation. The development of integrated livestock and crops
management systems including identification of trypanosomiasis
tolerant breeds, offers key to faster development. This would
need to be supported by better understanding of nutrient
requirement of soils, control of pests and diseases,
environmental impact and development of cost-effective labor
saving technologies.
td) The Guinean or Forest Zone (Verv Humid Zone). This zone
comprises the tropical lowland rain forest with an annual
rainfall increasing to over 2,000 mm in the south. The soils
are highly weathered and infertile, a situation made worse by
removal of most of the forest cover and declining fallow period
due to increasing humna population. The main crops are yam,
cassava, green maize, rice and plantain. Two coion rotations
are yam interplanted with maize and vegetables followed by
cassava, and cassava grown with early harvested maize. Cocoa.
rubber and oil palm are the main cash crops. Sheep, goats and
pigs are kept by farmers. Exploitation of remaining rain forest
for timber is an important economic activity. Soil degradation
and soil erosion are the major problems of the zone related
directly to the destruction of the forest eviraonment. The best
chance of achieviag sustainable agriculture is likely to be
provided by cropping systems incorporating both tree and annual
crops. e.g. alley cropping, in a manner similar to the small
compound farms, but suitable systems for larger scale production
are yet to be developed. In the meantime, maintenance of high
productivity of tree crops (rubber. oil palm and cocoa) remains
a high priority. Increasing productivity of root crops through
improved varieties and management practices with good
understanding of soil fertility factors is important to ensure



*67*
Pap 4 of 11
Uproved productivity. Better management practices for the
maintenance and further development of indignowus and introduced
forest species offers potential for greater timber production.
C.   5elected Research Prilorlties
17.       This section briefly describes the priority areas for research
requiring Imediate attention. These are either listed under various
comodity groupings or included as factor research targetes
(a)  Food and Fiber Crone
Millet= go Sorabu: Ci) screening and selection of local and
Improved cultivars for intercropping with cowpea. groundnut and
cotton. Special emphasis to be given to matching varietal
characteristics to specific agro-ecological zones, e.g. shorter
duration lines to be tested in sahel with medium duration type
given emphasis in sudan-savattRah testing programs  (i)
tolerance to parasitic weed Striga which is rapidly becoming a
major constraint in the northern production areas: (iii) in the
case of sorghum, jointly with ICRISAT station at Kno, screen
and select hybrid material for the increasingly important mono
cropped areas. Tests should also be conducted to ensure that
any new material is acceptable to the industry in ters of
malting quality or as feed grains and (iv) agronomic research to
developed improved crop production packages, especially the
fertilizer use, for major agro-ecologica1 zones.
Lalsts ti) screening and selection of mproved open pollinated
varieties and hybrids for mono and mized cropping systems in
different agro-ecological zones. This work would be closely
coordinated with lITA's maize improvement program. The
selection program would pay particular attention tot (a)
resistance to diseases (streak virus, downy mildew and blight);
(b) stem borers (mainly in high rainfall areas); (c) striga (of
increasing Importance In savannah): (d) storage Insects; and le)
grain quality and milliag properties; (ii) selection of early
maturing drought escapingitolerant varieties, mainly for the
mouocropping system  in moist savannt and (iii) agronomic
research to refine fertilizer use practices, especially with
respect to micro-nutrients use in the middle belt, population
density, and development of sustainable crop rotation systems.
e.g. maizelsoya cycle in the middle belt.
gljs Ci) For unland rice - improved production packages for
available short duration, drought and blast tolerant varieties:
(1) lowland irrialed - (a) selection of varieties tolerant to
blast, Rice Yellow Mottle Virus (RYMV), gall midge, stem borers
and iron toxicity. This work to be undertaken in close



e 68 *
Page . of 51
collaboration with UITAIWARDA, and (b) development of improved
production packagles and (iti) in-land valley samps - in
association with available Improved varieties (a) development of
low cost low labor requiring water management techniques, (b)
improved weed managemnt systems, and (c) agronomic work to
improve fertilizer use efficieancy.
Wheats (i) screening of imported geormplasm for local
adaptability, especially tolerance to heat and bred making
quality; and (ii) establishment of optimm irrigation regimes in
major wheat growing areas of the country.
Yams (i) improvements in the minisett multiplication technique
and development of improved rapid multiplication system  through
the use of bio-technology. This work to be undertaken in
collaboration with a regional or international center of
ezcellence; (ii) improved production packages for different
agro-ecological zones; (iii) evaluation of selected lines to
improve on-farm storage and processing systems: and (iv)
collection, classification and maintenance of local germplasm to
assist future breeding and selection program.
Cassavas Mi) development and selection of high yielding
varieties with tolerance to pest and diseasee for smllholders
intercropping cassava in mixed systems; (ii) support for storage
and processing research. Causava program to be closely linked
with the research activities of SITA.
Lo!3es (Cowpea. Groundnut and Soybean): Screening selection
and testing of improved and local (with cowpea) varieties to
meet specific cropping needs and growing conditions. In the
case of cowea, screening for resistance to insect pests and
Striga of varieties suitable for mixed cropping systems is of
special importance. Agronomic research should test cowpea
cultivars in carefully arranged mixtures of different maturity
and behavior to minimize insect pest build up. With troundnut
breeding and selection for tolerance to rosette virus in short
duration varieties is a high priority. This work should be
supported by studies oan population dynamics of aphid vector of
the virus to better understand the cycles of the disease
epidemics. With soybean continued selection of locally adapted
varieties for incorporation into cropping system is a high
priority. This work would need to supported by soya utilization
research. Close collaboration with ZITA would be maintained.
Cottons Varietal selection and testing for different agro-
ecological zones with a special reference to pest and disease
tolerance and lint quality; development of integrated pest
management systems for major production areas.



- 69 -
age  oaf 11
.ruits ad n egetblse  Ci) Citrus.  Determination of best
cultural method and soil water mnagement for oranges in fatming
systems, combined with cowpea, melons, etc. for each ecological
zone. Evaluation of rootstocks and varieties for fresh fruits
and processing; (W) Voeetableg. (a) Tomato, devolop improved
varieties for fresh fruit and processing. Adapt best cultural
methods in different fanning systems. (b) Amaranths adapt best
cultural methods for different cropping systms. Varieties
adapted for low soil moisture; (Cii) Preservation of fruits and
vegetables: and Civ) Adapting oackaaing containers for transport
and waxing (oranges. banaas) for extending marketing season.
tb) Tree Crocs
Oil Palm. (a) Selection and breedin of high yielding Dx? Palm
adapted to the local conditions and with a lover growth rate in
order to extend the economic life of the trees, lover fatty
acid content in oil and tolerance to fusarium wilt. Production
of six to seven million improved seeds per year for the
requirements of the Estates and the small holders; (b) Asronom
and Crop Protection Research. Understanding of mineral
nutrition requirements of oil palm and fertilizer management
practices in major growing areas in relation to selected
planting material: improved woed control systes; epidemiology
and control studies on Fusarium vascular wilt disease and lsaf
mining hispid coelanoamenodera minutes; Cc) Definition and
development of sustainable and stable mixed Oil PalmlFood Croos
fagrming sstems to maximize the land use, particularly in the
more densely populated areas with smallholdings; and (d) Further
improvement in the desig of the NIFOR small scale processing
equipment to minimize the losses of palm oil and Kernel at the
village level. Considerable work has already been done; further
studies would be aimed at overcoming the current deficiencies.
Cocoa. (a) Selection of high yielding hybrids resistant to the
swllen shoot virus and phytophthorat (b) Evaluation of
rehabilitation techniques for the old cocoa farm (over 30
years) which represent over 602 of the area under cocoa. This
vork would mainly involve pruning studies in combination with
agronomic practices, e.g. fertilizer use and weed control.
Rehabilitation and if required, expansion of seed-gardens for
the supply of improved seeds and seedlings to growers:; (c) Croo
orotection studies to limit the high percentage of losses to
phytophthora (pod rot disease) and to the brown cocoa mind and
other pests. Possibilities of cooperation regional study on the
biological andlor integrated pest management for miid control
would be investigated; and (d) Faming systegs to identify the



- 70 -
Page o Of it
beast crop combination, (food crops and tree crops) for an
optiml utilization of land in small holder agriculture.
Rubber (RRU_N.  (a) Veetal -imrovement of Hevea brasiliensis,
with good secondary features such as growth in connection with
precocity of tapping, wind and diseases tolerance and resistance
to tapping panel dryness. Production of selected material in
the form of budded stumps through establishamt of bud wood
gardens and grafting nurseries; lb) RMr_vm_ent of agronomic
oractices, (especially fertilizer use, cover crop management.
weed control methods) oriented towards the small holdings: and
(c) strengthening of eUtension sggoort u_nt to assist in
replanting program: Cd) design and development of small-scale
processing facilities especially for smoked sheet production.
This program would run in close association with program (c).
(c) Livestock
Livestock Production: Increases in livestock and poultry
productivity through: (a) improvements in selection, management
and conservation of forage and pasture species, especially for
dry season feeding; (b) utilization of crop residues by
detemining and/or improving nutritive value, palatability and
storability. Items (a) and (b) to be studied jointly with
appropriate crop research institute, e.g. 2UI; Cc) selection and
breeding of trypanotolerant breeds of local cattle in different
agro-ecological zones; and (d) investigation of constraints
associated with small ruminant production especially in the
humLd zone.
Livestock fealth: Improvements in disease control through
research on (a) impact of animal disease oan productivity through
improved diagnosis and epidemiological investigationst tb) cost-
effective treatment strategies for certain infections such as
trypanosomiasis: and (c) investigations into present status of
tsetse in the middle belt and the south along with livestock
systems research where fodder is generally available throughout
the year and transhumant Fulani herds are showing signs of year
round presence.
Cd) Fisheries
Priority research programs in fisheries will concentrate on
increasing fish production through aquaculture. Standard
procedures will be developed for the mass pro1uction of
fingerlings of freshwater species of Clarias, Heterobranchus,
Cyprinus and Tilapia. High-quility fast-breeders will be
selected for the production of fast-growing fingerlings.



Pa8e8 of 1
Appropriate foeds will be developed to foster rapid growth of
fE,h at all stage of their life cycles. A program of
distribution of fingerlings to frmers will follow mass
productLon. Another aquaculture program will develop tecbnology
for the integration of fish farming with poultry and pig
raising, using genetically-improved fish seed of species of
Clarias. Heterobranchus. Chrysichthys. Oreochromis, Heterotis
and Cyprinus. A component of this program will examine the mass
productLon of live unL-cellular micro-organiLms for use as feed
for fingerlings and fry. This research aim to demonstrate that
fish rearing through integrated farmin can increase fish
production to 5-6.5 tonslhalyear. In addition, farmng produces
a yield of pork. chicken seat and eggs. A third aquaculture
program will investigate the feasibility of hatchery propagation
and culture of the marine shrimp Penaeus notialis, and the
brackishvater prawn Macrobrachium vollenhovenii, and
purification procedures for the mangrove oyster Crassostrea
grassar. Though aimed at increasLng natLonal production of
these specLes, the major spin-off  from this research would be
in terms of increased foreign exchange, as these specles are
luxury item  most suited to overseas markets. In addition, it
is expected that a proportion of the increased incomes generateo
from these shellfish farming activities would be re-invested in
the aquaculture industry, in such activities as finfish faming.
The other major thrust in fisheries research will be directed at
developing uses for seasonal gluts of fLsh artisanal and
industrial capture fisheries, and for the by-catch species which
are a regular fall-out from the capture fisheries. This excess
fisheries produce will be developed into a protein-rich food
supplement for human consumption, and into species-specific,
least-cost fish feeds for selected culturable fish. This
program has the overall dual aims of eliminating a major
component of post-harvest loss from the capture fisheries, and
promoting optimal utilization.
(e) Porestnr atd Environment
The research prlorities in forestry ad enviromet are derived
from the national forest policy objectives hich includes the
supply of fuelvood and industrial wood to meet primarily
domestic demand oan a sustained basis; the protection and
restoration of environment through proper practices ln forest
management and agroforestry, and through forestation activities;
the protection. conservation and mangement of the forest
estate, its flora and genepool, the conservation and managemnt
of tke wildlife; and the promotion of lesser utilized tree
species and reduction of wastes in all stages of forest and
utilizatlon.



- 72 -
Anfl*X 9
.                          r 8~~~~~~ae 9of 11
SW order to support the objective, outlined above, the following
programs have been identified:
(i)     Selection and testing of indlierous and exotic
mu1tiourgose tree suecies for environmental
protection, fuelvood production and integrated land
use in the arid and semi-arid areas. The pri 'Q
concerm of this program is to arrest the encroachment
of the desert and to establish vegetation cover to
ameliorate the environment, arrest wind erosion and
produce fuelvood and fodder in the savanna and arid
areas of the north, Since the program will contribute
to the evaluation of socio-ecoanmic implications of
agroforestry systems, cooperation with related
sectors, especially agriculture and livestock, would
be established.
.i1)     Screening and silviculture of exotic and indiaenous
high forest tree species to establish fast-growing
plantations for meeting the demand of industrial wood
fuelvood and for soil stabilization on previously
logged areas in the high forest zone mainly of the
south. The objective include the selection and
improv_-asnt of tree species, promotion of seed supply
and improvement of nursery techniques.
(iii)     Assessment of biological resources and studies on the
re_eneratio_nof manarove species in order to
judiciously manage the large mangrove resource and
increase wood supply base of the country. First, this
program would assess the biological potential.
Second, research would be undertaken on the
regeneratAon of mangrove species. Third, suitable
uses for mangrove species would be introduced along
with a technical and economic assessemnt of the
opportunities.
Civ)     Development of the technology for the utilization of
mall to mediu diameter los. grown Mainly in
plantations. Because the age of large diameter logs
is over In Nlgeria, the technology for timber
extraction and conversion is in need of modification
aiming at the production of an approprlate
technological package. During all stages of logging
and ailling, development of methods to reduce waste
would be an essential goal.



- 73-
Page 10 of U
Cv)     !1ana~eMt of  ronical Forests of the tumid Zone.
Little is known about systematic manageent of
tropical forests, particularly on the composition of
the humid vegetation, growth rates of component
species, and biology and ecology of natural
vegetation. For studying the productivity of natural
forests and adequate qunatification of yield of wood
and other minor products such as wildlife is needed.
This research program would address these areas.
(f)  Storgd Products
Focus of the work would be on extending the storage life of
perishable products including:
Ci)     Storage of vs.  Devlopment of low cost mwthods of
on-fam storage based on wood ash and other natural
(plant) products and chemicals to prevent shrinkage
and sprouting. Evaluation of low temperature storage
system  of large cercial producers and traders.
(iU)     Preservation of Fruits and Vegetables. Adapting
containers and packaging for transport and waxing of
orange and plantain for extending marketing season.
Devlopment of evaporation cooling systems for oatnge,
plantain and tomto. Work would also include
evaluation of market potential to pay higher prices
for out of season produce.
(5) Aaro-Proceesina
Three priority areas with potential for increasing utilization
of locally produced staples includes
i)      Cassa,va-Egrotoe   Inriched Gagi. Further work would
refine gari enriched with protein from soybean and
bennised and along with despi  of equipment and
building of a pilot processing unit.
(ii)      omu-?rotein4ich Sgvoal,  Improvements in
preparation process of protein-fortified *soy-ogie anW
development of efficient production technique pilot
plant along with assessment of operational costs.
(iii)     gon-fat Sre-a.  mprovements in the texture and
keeping quality of the bread. Facilities to be
provided would include laboratory equipment and pilot
oven to enable production for consume evaluation.



- 74 -
Page Is of 11
(h)  EarmIn1 Sstems Research and Research-Extension Linkage PrOQram
Focus of FSR progres in different ecologies with varying
degrees of emphasis is expected to be: diagnostic surveys
essential for developing meaningful FSR programs; development of
sustainable crop production involving mixed and sole cropping
and tillage systems, wherever appropriate including the use of
draught animals: evaluation of relationship involved in
integrated crop. agro-forestry and livestock production systems
as appropriate for 4ifferent agro-ecological zones; evaluation
of current status and changing roles of women under different
cultural and socio-econoamic conditions.
In the case of forestry sector, studies would be undertaken to
identify technical and socio-econoamic constraints to private
forestry development and, if appropriate, promote packages based
on existing research information.
The research-extension linkage program in the fisheries sector
would provide technical backstopping to fish farming activities,
especially advise on appropriate feed and production and
distribution of healthy fingerlings and fry.
, Ci) Soil and Water ManaSement
Soil and water smanagement studies to develop/promote sustainable
agricultural production systems, in particular simple and cost-
effective technique of contour planting and use of vegetative
barriers to prevent soil erosion and conserve soil moisture
would be given high priority. In the forest zone alley
cropping, preferably integrated sall ruminants, seem to be the
best option for limiting soil fertility decline. This work
would tako into account ZITA's experience and extend research to
improve iLligenous systems based on Acioa sp. in South East by
intcorporating acid tolerant legume such as Te2hrosia, or
Fleudnaia.
More efficient fertilizer use recomendations would be produced
as part of the agronooic research on various crops in different
parts of the country. The research institute would collaborate
with user agencies (DiAN, National Fertilizer Center, Extension
Services) ia defining crop/system specific, zonal
recommendations and later relating these to major soil groups in
the different agro-ecological zones.
Irrigation research would concentrate on supporting further
development of smallacale fadama irrigation schemes by
developing optimum cropping patterns and evaluating low cost
light irrigation and distribution systems with a view to
increasing irrigation water use efficiency.
AP4AG
October 3, 1990



to            4I0    ('aS   rw        I     so      tUet    lui't  Vlot                        es                                O    Von f-5 9     P-I t
..  ....  ... ....... ....... . .....    ......... ........  ...... . ......... ........... ............. ... . ...... . 
_ 0                                   16  U410    raw&  C'           S      N       1U'    (019'S  S i9 lt      U        INI 31613   08336  33150  31
0                        1     to       Ck#    VI%       WO          to       SISUOO   clefoll   01161              #01 D1 m m ,s ,,  ,emWA ,ma" ,           '. .
9     of       10,4  "  f$4 Clf    a        S *               *V00      s**                   omatt  mum  Wuu nin m own  ee'
sema 4w   'S
....... ......... ......... ...... . ........ ..... ... ...... ........ .  ....... ....  ..... ..... __
I                  * 91.'  rgue'      t   *S        V 'U%    11 0l'SAIM1 a                                         3        3 8
6     'a      oan   rutl't rw              Ua      riesg  ram   t*IP'                                                    SAl u  P 4p3
...................   __.......... ..__ .__ ........................ _._
I  U       S API'm1    6113    I         aS      r1EUW    *`3149  LeS'S             m      max303  $=IEI 53333  ma =imo   Now.
I   of    'WI a'eu's SIM   I   a    IWht VMS" alwe                                  tam 0101  mm eV  mmma so3WJm maow
s     is      tm'   us  reai   u            us      ew        ruwwt sues                     umm  Rm         as       m.          it
._  wv  .w +wS.S_  .........................._   ...... .. ..  _-.* ......... ..... _
a  1Xm                 VW"Ft to    t     a        '"       owp"   l's                      u       i     ivi  ol            49 wi Sm
*  so      seee'e4  *'m   r.e    I      So      rune    "'W'  rate'                            tern MeUM .IXN  aMas  t Noew
*   *    eiue  aim  no   *   *    raew                                                         gums uwemmaw IN mmmi m.
@ U tr t | * U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssu   '  1p"
......... ........._ ..:__......._,...__ ....___,___,,
t     So                      a                                ,01       "Nt                        am 10 I a mn    own" a
g~~~~~ Si                            6154CteS83    9"  -1*                 SW'    95    fl'S                                                     st 333PR4
,~~~~~~5                      1       Ill'   OW'  611  u1           S-t    flSS    n et's.   w                               owm inm   m maea  uw           s3 Wass
  P  Ol'S  lePl   m  t  ~ guau'g   *iSe  9I9'9                 610103650  S US  5803                in33
p. 
|  "  "   tAIl'N  t-|Nl 4-wS  a        U       t   t        t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~IAI  mo  4w"                                      pe 4"
_ _ ~~~~~.   ...... __ .... ..._ ..... ..._ .__._.....__
~~~~~~~Mg wo$  6                                                   Wn                       low   mom                   an &mm^  _Xu"t
*  ii    ea   *ae'em  awn rwls u            im        ronus   swum  O1SW                                          em11wu    s   maims'. os
*  0     Silt'S  ~LISt'S Sll's   S             V1159W   LiES'S     mo 116618                 slim    323326033  wall not
*     m       sw'   rut'  rsu         I     a         `a'n o1 e'o  .ets IM*$                           Mt own 3 w aus   main"
4             91W ,-'P4   115114            (P 6"      U      rWSI  OIU'W                             46033303M                    U01
1  (9     d~. Us    sow 315,Q164   I     a9      room1  t03*W44 0P699'S                                 $01)3ow m3 ob105 10W) lot
s     a       *-au'  *srt e'1    g          a        ntis    1t9'9I                          8     1St 03 w1rnS um tas a 1:11aeasma14
w     Sut 53    Go 
ust I303 aJUSm I t
a                     W"  GU" aD  l' VUI VHW WOM                                                               owsl gm  _"bb" P
....... .... . ... ......... ...  _. _ __..... ....... ... . .... .... . .......____...._ .,........_
I     0       g Iut  ram     IS S     U     99                 5        10l                                        39      5 55)8111311
*I             V$1100  91a95S  0'It   tI    Vt       *S'4    IP                                                  Om tm'ins& 1011n
X w~~to               -WUK  ra  VW       go                        wt                                            a     s'   weU ow""
e *           s- su s'o"s **u' L"*ws  I     *       01'         10305                                                 sa "ur   twnms
*  5  ~~94P1    4165   6111    0         OD      ram'    @115'  013's                                 taMe WMe 3suws skwaU OMe
*  45    513    93#,1   rug   I       t       01a'    5150'S ,I16C' rot                  moan amime  a nmaem  asAMs "uII 
U...., flfl~~fl.. ***t9t4~S U*U ****fl*q S..fl *SS*** ~flflflf........I. .*. ......
w    uIsa a                          owe  qeOm u 3
Om0. 138                            * awSOa'..
am  se w.
03005 t101    3IO
issue}      s    _$



"'wala
eus cUt CfS
m a st sw
Dew                   2 Fseet1)~~~~ laid
6wt   reft9 totalet    Esd           Cmte   tad    iweIdol             a         code
~~~~~.~~~ irma r_  m
C* ~ ~~~1 ow tl -t W"KR gm.
t. I'M  0  _"co
Wm" a Kum3131136 I                     -    13  15               1.   4#9116.6   5*410.0        90      I     81.0  355.4    11.3                I 
of MMSSa             tam    " MuM- M  momm                  m.uI  3uw.1    ,f.0   to we                  44.4   319.10  146.        II      I
mom  is mum          m             01110236 1963 - us32 mm.07.1  9.242.    WM.23.              I0              116.0 1#441.8  2*36.0     III     I
-hWd  MIl "M           MuM2o283.8 3.34                                                            90      4    59.2 3.3.   3311             0
ar    wu       n     p  matur                                    31.8  i.5.        t.in.        we      I     3.0    m. .o in.           IO
833   nu    im    Mi I s                                          Mum  s&o  2410.0  ss.o       90       *     zs.e   "3.L     21.        of      a
KM    ff333633U INftguS 63                                       128.   141..0      0.30.       III     0     a-10  23.0    31.0         a0
mom4.                      mmamM                                          MO64 .3.   6.96.0      III     1            3'9 4.0   217.42    0
4. noun11
36315339I tM                    M MM1  Kum                       228.0  bolf-e   24.3           to      0     me0  13.3 "     3.         90 
WI I 3231 11391 m   33338    33)31.0  lo.01S.    1.30.0                                        9       0     3.     nu.    316Me                  
36Id) 1333                                                          410.0  4.14.      4,6.0?      90      4      31     48.   119.5        0        2
v ts    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
_   e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   11 Il u11   *t - -
_11111  W1  1m t 6Kam  t01.410.0   l.1.0                                                       90       0  l2o.0   2L         31.6       9A 0    6
UK331Go 3 Wm                  M                                  26.66.  18434.    .334.1        49      7    66.0    Ms1.      98.6.     UP      1
0.vn mu  imi
m1m        66t233 KII II           1D        3631 mum46   6.66.0   2.61                          0      I    3.8    MS   .3h             40      1
1n_  5K a          um      MT11511                              29.0 h "   114.M.      .        46  o        234.6   256.  3SMS          40      a
35133  f_ 33  3366                                              1.43.30            00.0         46   I  510.  3.7  934    46    I
3335531in           33on I=3*                                    6 Ms     4.22.      ow.11.      41          13.5  &46141  8,121.5       40      v'
Ui         i     ,sw        uiin   038                          3110.   0,4.0   21f1S            4       3X 6.).    958   2,2.8            4 
364e101 13    113333                          a4S.65 21d.01                          0461.5        40   e     4.16  3*02.  1*88.            4
1. Nu am
cm  E3S133     13        U 33 4I       3                          4..4  2254.2    8.'S           33       g    68.0  143.3   88.2          35 
OK" 3331611to1an FM11Kum  f"I3                                 14453.   5.13-5   903.13.0       35      2  I.32.    601.9  2.02.J        35      1 
I33II11mWA831151 IIII1lI    63o  (328) tow4.  1246.11   I.9.                                                 407.0  248.8    46.         35 
o  0
2 Qll  cm                                                          111.3  NOMA3 3 lOlt3   3               2.31.  ..5  21  I    461.?   19 .1 251.  25  O
11|_p"I   to  _rvo lsZ of0                  m                            1*.    $#M.$           2       1    414I.? bw.2     W  .1      as      I
m2a    o m   K             Mi 5212313212331                    Oh1.21   4456.6   36.23.0        25      2  2,31.5   451.5  l2.41.    25          2
3133       6135131ow  3mtil3lfKum  t311l   3139 IbMO19. 9   164                                 25      2  2*1.I,9  51.3  W.U            25      2
_    _ . .      ..  .........   . ....     ....   .....   ..._ _.    .._ _....



ill   S1    bbsw,4 @~9*m' .9 t.U *t *        *a~ 9        +,., ...eol*d.                                    a- .-   . .
.4 .4t 49 *116%  I'm   s'gwe'e as  of  u                                  ,u   rWsol rm'mu                                          pstM  Its
14 _0                                                                                                                       l     -_       eow   MO   NJJ  ._PV   --^
O-~~~~    L                         U'  r*#'gss  V    IL           CSIPi   e'gu r LwE                                          US_ttl2 P89M
?A'                                                                                                              mum a  - s sismti a'itL i O d  1  ffW   It
0                        I           1'5W   151  g'sWe  a    fft SI         411  'M  h,UK                        SI10                    555 "
9         ; F w       X  U rim       M a     *lug$$   $16a    e          mm  mm mm  g   swM   NJst mm =MlS
S    *i    sea    eis ra        *    a       ets   ra       swa                                 a    smee sase s   
*    IL     S'm   U*1  i'Wt  0    a          ruu,i   %la   rSIM_"                                          -   P _
*    u      "a   *ro t      n   e u   s      nuA'   res      "Ws's                law suau     mmi WO mi  s I _
a   rw              Om     pln    @.   at    olluol  rdugluts'                      4=         "N  SOM     M M
*    5;    OM      C'S  PwE     t    it      *su*    leK  I'd"             um Vw                           I Gm a
I    U  tin   siua  sin    s    is      IVas'   s      slaw.a     onJ111mu    an m                            mm
| *    us   ow    S'S   P       *    it      nsass Ian   I'm-s"           mm       _       m111  uNMI _mm   mum
*    U   ru        s's   * t   a             nts*    6W    SIR'S                      5515)Urn  am        sUm
u    i      e'usa  s  -                      s'as  I'ws  'slotU                                   am   u "aIe siV
*    *      nMs   .r   Ps    I    e            isi   I'm    rrn'                u_ -      ow l MKIMS inu  _s  m
|~~~~~~ * i                                a      m    *     ~      es g'g          'w           ei  u               - mu   nn  unm swu  as swa
1  *        g '1 Aru  &l   rim   I    9      two(   vi    5'W        a    mm 0-11-    m ase muua mmI
*    a  0*   a'    iis      5W1   61    SW'     emi ss -       e inr  intiiDawun  aM amasIs
U  taR   ~ro   reaW  IC   a         LW'    151   W&W'S         aAS-t WmiI  ini   "muI                      -
5   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                            4I4      a       nm       ~       a#                                   11000- goi s  IMe
'S                  a    s      i'ses~~~~~~ra    I'm   Pno      i  onsas r "WI          sum-l     MDs. imm uinnM um am msnsu m mss'
mas _1mu          U   *11
- mm  aasm  awm I
Is   us     giwus sws ewdsa a    a           ram'u   rawi rue'sus                                mBa  um uama Pv.
aZ  oliOe vno9                     9      WUP M               11              I    tSU    I ID I I U_    MM*1R
sa  ass. m Gwm  Itw.
-_                 _ _ -_           _ -* -  -      - ---                                                         R
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                 . ........._ _..._.._
*    P      raw    aimr   sit   I   1        rI  ' S   nm's ets                                     mm mi-   1t_D11-"
* u       -,su   aidm  s*ass   *    as    rue's9   nm'sA   M%'iiama swam tom     muniu  maw mima unsos
in    e - 'l
pps a                           tonI Is 1'S'1  g    6t    t"fft  rt"s                                    ui'
a    as   tws a      s rmsiu. am                            nc                     su  muse a t t       s       u me
as     sin   a'a           I    as     eit'V   8*tZt't 5'            U  *n 55 nmo                 3 1W mute
im  asese                         MW 1101J3 t   ^t    -ts       1SU                                                |
sepaql                            sepie
.u. _m                            t. _as,
tF ~ ~ ~ ~~~a   at. a".



315931
uoit Cww..1u
wo    "   w   n   n                            "   *
..............-   ------
II                     Of                      p       amr -0  e .  11i la mt e
ZYg~~~~~~~~~~ 91                                         92-             9-      95.    9*e    1.3       3133  .431
06333         MMID3t ON  1331      1u3.1$ 413                                    14-m.   M             1*8L n. 120    S 2a 4
hUEd  ml 3154             ow                                           to.63.  S.S003*.3.    ,609.0                0    6630    5.33.
am K.        51563 a                                            9.491    W4    1433.0 14l60.    .114 13141 12.31.5t 1011.4  80411
Icims MM=1  1331                                               6512.0  6*.m,o  0.33.0  #460 1.13.       1.0    16.0M  M  819,410.   lo13
a.femamriams-- m
,,,,,_ . ......._. _
....................
6311t1   U 13311    mum13 M IVAD                          -  1493.S  4.3J  3.5        1.3   130       2       1.1 M   3-5A.  1.23.4
131MM313"   11 31D   41)                                  -  1t.111*4.30.5  4.31.0  11*141.  t        314     WA    U.O. ?9.
liKtUIV  OF13MIA64  6      t3113                          -  s501.3  3.13    b A 5t 1.6/J3 1.3.1   433.3                       bm43.3
3613 m CElLS 61 SWINK3 4566                                 #?.13   14.3*110.0  .1M   1.3.0  3.33.   l.w-10  315.    3.31.    4.03.
mtISt miwi 01  linmB 139m11  m                            -  a.au.4  3.33.  3.335  3.7.   3.3,    13*    13.3t          61.36    3.434
"INKle"lmn IlltlliR ISIltiW   _I                            baU.I J20a11    bllsA  #on    low.$    n"        D.e   bnw        SA
3     1to am 131M Iw31 #ml.  6 .                                                 0 w .f155 1s .1 6m.4s h"46.o          awmA   4.8.
-td1i3 FOB M F11111 ml                                     4-0111 63.13.3  M5a35 3143.1 11413   5.116 3s.331 M1            U 1J    U
2. Mt can
CK  t Olga    "INKiOWf IF  W    ttn                    -  2 PVl &1? 114   to=J  IsM          d 01L  01   hS    RMA   14                                     I
11Mllin      113 M1 OR Om       t1313)                    - am  Iow   .60  5.lt O.11 too"    51.5 WS2s   an.3   &MA
mm_33311l5 a                 1313                         - mm118*  4011* 1.15.5A J3id.3       MA       .l J1          4433*   1.4
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                               ^ -----  -   14--tXIU  2t
L t_Eoiti
341       1 IMI35153                                           31 64,.5 ff.3        4.5. B  1165 2OM1A MA    IdQ  3*    %$4   51..11
34l1     M   "m115333 "1 i fl_ -  111  1W13 I                                 .1A h3. u 0131.A    5154    W1    3601*44 bl4
1335"gum11              la53 f51331Kum1                   .  1,433.0   1  1# 6.34  1.30.6   63VA    339     39*    6.3     BOMA
5.-etal "85 . g _3                                                                                                6.$   36.23    1.
...... ...... __
11333 S31 m    3 1315  a  1    Ilmm a                        431.5  $0161.5.21*1. 4   1194    6*              24 au     .3Ml   tE 
4.     _ 5  M 30                                                                                                                                                ;;
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
WANKll gmsirl *lt MI       Mil   am                          "M0 BOO             DOIS * IsS,1#17        3o     =9 -     M   -BOMsA-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_........_. ___....____..... ___--__  O
63t64 36I7311Fe      31 3KW       33am                    - gs1#. 160 5 #3*    13.0W           4         -       -    5 .       63.-
WWWIMI  t335  l1                      h.U 1013.1 313.1 0.3.3100.4   .3 1.144  $$M.   34.I33.J433.



"~~~gu'  tr.   rues *ws S*l ru'." sw'. ;*e' -*.  rust                                              1i r
0    0                 Mot  ram        rimo  VW$ rW$ siam, Osaw;al rint m's  .w     -                   11) lolls" ml    1131 515 Wilo
~4 r4 14        "Wi  1,1w 1 *CM   *0eup   **glpg e*t's ;** s  *uo ' g06 s  SISK$$ -                   tirn  3155153n Amal "Wm
Cla                          gla    nu    *g    10in    VW    r6k   wins   vim   -                   uO  swim u nau mu uun   imm
A                                                                                                =min~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5i I
:12:                  yin'.  tw, 101'1WC         r u, nitt  Lwst                r ig Vt                                        Omnu -II
nw    rru     gu'  eu'smai a,"'* wi  *u   **aw' VW      w ranurWm Wm   a3111315553l 3113a
am    ru'    mms         wser'  oti   sa   era            ueV   -                                a XUamUw sw
rue's  1it'1  1,t*q  *n.ga  *'l.i  V&x4g  *.g1s,g *q   .g1,-                       tam) u,     Wm   in mw loow  Wmin
e'e    ra"ts'    sins'  rus'; ruu*  sur  ras'  nw    sue'                         ism  .ms  swu   misu   m_  oU 
raw ; `*i1u   **i's  rusi  101M s im     s'    ss ea                                  I gm aIMMn inU= mum  NMis
1wl  mut'sz VS'S VmW's V421  VWU              s`'s Vri1's rVW's  -                     ims   w        miue    men
gie    6*Ueg    ri,e1   rm    nse   ne   rue   sum r1 el        - * "                          t smumm sm mmm
rWKS  OI*    olm  -101  0091"                  M Me  MO                     S                 1141  'n *m u  _
rg.   V11"       mot  ~1 **mg  **uto rot's 4        ut i'   -.ug's            *I_g Ws I 1             ussaw 1  ussums
-  mu am "11
raw                                                                                            MI'fAJ=js,j  -     1- leglz  '8'   'U   IdPt-_ 1 Z
l     MM  meu swum 1111011-01
I                     ems   ewa    -                rum   sues   mm's s- w    -                        tsam  mns WNW semis  sum  mis u
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ S              m%W-rm                                       It  ra'ssUaIRNNhI I 53153 Is
1%                   3.53r   tW9'    -       -      *1                         UM Mte't  '155l -"                              - IOU    sl
Iran    1                       m                                   _ _  -                               11 aw's  1 ". Mwu  *t
*^ ~  ~    ~     m      men's    -      -      rums   -      -      .a   sw es  -         umsu   s                mm   um uua
raw    ,me'    -   *          men's -       -   ~gg IWtsan s * ue wausn
mmt   nm'    -         -      rota   -      -     rats   1w'; -           _        oemarna  uM I'   A  minJIM
I'm   -Ws              -      *.J  -        -      iatl  rit'  .                      u s miuemnmsu
swon                                                                                  ts -' -. .'  6'UI. us'   -  _s  111111mW
tS *q    ,      -      *       *, *.i    _          _    **t*  3.            mus  - m.mu   isnsimss
t~~~~~ -u'  -a   5U    *5    -**   . U   smilE 1-   rn   ms siu   mum .3
"WIS *          rw s. "Vol rswa    s    rm ot I'1m4  sum .- ms*                        l 3 m    an I G sIa
"      raw's    -      *      V IIM  fla etLot  sues'                         mi - w          san ioemis  wum 05 55w
614   Vads6t   -    ." C      w's -     . *-    KI v* na -                    n   - n   _m 5513153113 s"wu   Illwu
4    u*aa'    -    -   es  sm'; sias    w       u twa  mimi-    u    5333 _nW5          335t13unsim  n
(rt I  "te      *        19   Vo$$                        9 a    . .   06ewt  MM  Nl11 - _dM NMI lZlSOI      el vo
5.  *' 's*
,cm    V"               on   $411 eueIm    t-l43 t   *i -u"                II-Dul lm        oi  8191=11 Wm    sa        1
*ee. wa
401 " $PD"    Jm
11    1    1111U13
as  qimmn- pU



tMt
Plea  Cupags h, * r
*mmal 1608td
96    93        92        93       9         IIn                i t        O?A      u 61 )
4. 1319S
alms633 :ilSm aw   ru el     m    VAl II  SI tmisl 65            -  1*651.5  16563.5 1,553.5  I."1     653    1 .53.   6W,5.1  M          240.  2.4
183  9351fUiuiISIl mutlSlnl twtu*   EttUfrn                -       * sn.o    no.o    wz.o   ff.   2z.33.   *933.5  8^.66.          493.         2.
_ ...... ......... ..... . ... .. . __...... ._ .  _ .   _._........... ..  ...... .__
M-1st4l t1E3s                                                        2. 1bn.S  2 .   2.S.1  2,5.4  2ltt.9  2IB1M     3.3*68.0   61,224           UW
s. ifm "a vgomsiu
. ....... .............. _._
1d-Sta  1U14     "Nna11 a Nl     FM  I                           -  1470.0  I.OWA   1 . .01.0   I.RMA   bo3.0  6131.0    63.40.0   8M.4
Sib-Ida 386) i                                                     -  1.OMo       2,33.o2 .0 RO MA0.0  2410.0  4t1.0A  2*9.           t     0   t.49334
1  nmtm       "WI MO            1111Ilite OM-                       b lis.0  2 4X2114   bsl.01 bus          23.8  ?#A bo            t         too.$
j   14XN                                                               b" *".W    *f                                                t  ~       110t1.-4
1.53- 933
am 113331111511110 Fe umia                 am1                        * _10.0    66.*    66.0    40.0   44.0    410.0   44..0    0deo           W.9
2*-,ahI M*        -                                                 -.  .44.0     6*        40                           - ---.-- .  ._ 1-*0I      W. .
f.e  51           15-4 1013   ^   
1. MM"  I            "   n                                            231. 2.5nw4   3.3.  201.0 24931.4  139.1 2            493.    6       .0  23413.3
It. Ssm uuts 6t15-
g, Nam    31365t  1333356    tf3m                        mm53.23   -      134    93.9  I660.  td3q.6  8*0l62.  low3.3  I482.4          1.83.      942 
2. FM 16 05     c                                                                                                                                                                    o
1. 81912111 31W} tUi               11   - -     m0                     MA4     S.L        WA.     3.4    323.4    13.64     54  h0410.2   a .6
9 51133          foam  1156 X- so3 1 111                               060.0 1t  11.&1.             3.      J0 0   3.    56.1        390.       4l1.9
39951033351111316uSe 993-312  51                                 -    "Li.   413.3    830    3144    314.3   614.3    34.3    4.314             933.
9995193335611338516531533-1931    Imi          -    280.    3812.6   *016.3    1104*    164.6  1834    134.6       3401       33.
153FM5631M 53m 15336531                                          *                     6 33.  213.0 .4    33.0    33.   s3 3*        6.1t31t    301.0
33    611     Fe Om 2  11 _ 3         6m1193                     -       .     2.    213.0       31.0    30a   a3.0    3.0          tM.         2
am  m333365 233885  61 15338  8321                                    21.A     23 24    213.0   W5A.   m3.o    29.         33.0     IBMA.       nu0
gt.8ga, Mt on                                                            M9       11.0 _19.0    MA            9A.0   13.     IDA       103m3      10.1
4.13 tl233611" ZlSSt 111 - Ailil _                               - M NMtA   O   MA d0A     MA  2ass    MA s   t2^0   M
5t86    t 131 ^11631M  3431831so          33553 61               -    213.0    n3.        .      33.0      3.o    m.to    213        tem-41      6.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... ..._....
3tl18    1615 12m     QJ 115    t ti     t                       '    21.0    N.b0    33.0       3.0    S.A     33.        2A            A      30.0
6,h66  18233111                                                   -    10.3   163.    50.0   36.0   10.    163.    13.0               342.       400
L.U11N 18 IIIIIIW 81383              t                             -    2M3.0    252.    25.    33          25.0   213.0   253.0       6    0        .
was Pu3nts KUM66513363836151  65363                                   -    I80.6  6U0.    7160   0 .0M   M20.    2200            6,680.0    623.2                                0
. ............  ..... .-..-..11 1a
II. 663631633661316633-   .33.95.600   .2.4  3,981.4  6#116.9  301.4  64,49.4   43*333.4   4.911.189t1
..r
latt 653  (111                                                          - oai.2.1a   .24.6 634.s0.4 20o2.360 AW,60.  m144 s1*613.9  m3w13.6  Po 9
?b.,.ta) 1S4. a  lls   lalEt f gggmW$                            .      4.2 6613'4.0  9,3.8  11021.   6,170.3  3*10.0       34.5  1SWI.   3*931.4
Our.c.w U ,.- 600.02.  271.5.0 39.6,2.  611*33.0 33*820.2 WAILS8.  25.066.0   3401.16.   19.364.6
........        ......... .._. ......... _._. .. ................ ........ .. ........
l.4*.      r81                                                         - carseMINA 69411.6 t03.6. SN.63.4 613.2 1 03  (2.119.4 6L6t24.0  104*69.10
..   ............. ..



mum
mse 6Kom ca   uaa
_,.................................................__.. _.... ............... .................. _.................... ........ ......
3m am  I..                                ieuusm  5.
storsi lots        aWI    imflass   WS    &WA    'amm    WI   I                   cas h
to am m1 imino                      a.s'.   in.o          . a          95    5o       1.0.0.1 t  o19.6284          95   It
Io sanIh                             bigot. 131.1t9.    1,8. Stinth1  3,13.1 h3,169.  35.3.                        95      I
1.1333458                   3~*02.1$$  Rwae.18  34,631.0       96 4*z        39a.l 3,519.   g.             9* *4$4 
I.ean  as M=   mawn             2.30.4  244121.9   3,me.e         W        3     Ms.8 3*281.   3,34             s 
r. uma ma
truss                  t                    b.JS.o   W4S1.m         us MJ1t  '2          2432.6  2      4       0119     I
I.E                                 s.m.t e      -      s .as.e        -      *      v.e   -.    ui.                      s 
Imtt)  lN     Mt_if                   ,1.    143.    W194.              9_      3P  1819 21.0a.6  t1.I15.1    2 t           34 
t. 53133111
~~~~~~~~~ ... .- .. ...... ........... 
asses10 mum                        096s u. a.oflseo   530.5         as      II  S.t,24.5 0.31.31  9.38.2        a       ot
WlA ni.UN                                        -    1              -  21713.3                - 43.  53          .
s w tAau mum                         ,.te                   m          M6  a2 n.w  9.m.swe.1                        s .                       *
. Mu        $1131ow) no             2023.0  .193.5   l3 -4             45      a    2511.    113.1    429.2        45       5
a.um  SWm                                   too""      us.in.         *       6  JIMA  bow~ b31.4                 e       a
~~~~~~~mg...n*e  ae eiem a8e e,....e.e.e.. e.....   .......  o...
s. uu    _i     s             u,a.s".    1*.e.    nI.as.          sl    Is  3,s.i   ua.s.       &.s.          as    n
Ct.l 3i*$M                      - 62,3444       102. ,33.$  112213   2       I-   10515.2   -3.5  9,13            -      II
.- ----- - --- ----- -                       *3
1.WELSESS                           9415.5 _!B.  1.111.5              0           .135.4 128. 1   IX      94               5 so
I.~~~~~~~~~-------                                       OM M        bam.    st.eamas*  o o"a  oems f    .*  2.g  s 
tL 11133   515                       30*1.3M M    309l       2 .L0 S 2            3  190.t   1a63 2lotw.$   hl t
#~~~is  Cmsat                                   1316.  2189.    45,1.               820t  n3  *,3    1.51.   3,13.9            21       0l.
8.88  1353  1388                    3(9.138.0401568.      ,a.             1    30t.B.  2124  51,6is A81.9 AM    SOL  10      a
L         M1_ t Wu..                lI.94.S   330.0   5 8ma0            is       1  8.111. 1  .322.3  59.3          Is      S
11. Be"                               3    S       0     20354.         1        1       .5   0          64.                a
fad. Im-amic51@1640~6.l. am8 MAW.                                          4     841 48,893.9 3.931,  5,2.            *5      A
L.:s ,. .. ...... .. ......* S ... .. .... e. ... . ..4... ..L .....      ......... ......
WA muta cot                          W,1.  "In             MOa           ig         to.  x * m1.s 1 10"   neip9      to      M 
^  6 > f | ~~~~~~Ol"I     MMO    IN -                         is      I  # *InZ.!  0.1  "SA              12       I
btd  _les   tt511$AJ- mI0s2gs.                                            M    .1   I*1.  h^J0.  1#0.)               W1      V
trt "    tlbm Deb1. vi                       2a 0C.92   VU.f                    3t       .              M
.     .....    . . ....    ... ...._ ........   ... .   ........   .... .     .......    ......   ..
Ideal PUllt CRtIIICQlS                241.5)X)  ilb- *1 611.2 6,4          so  2      14  41*".' 1.9 al bb) 190,4%   AG



t-@ ml                                                                         No  0410
t9    9         92       91        90       91         4       91        MI        3      91   n3         91        4      6         1      91     .1*
................ "   ........ ......... .......... . .....................................................S  ..     ...... . .......s . . .. .......................
I. 606136313161 
........... .......... 
A. 6 4i15 as sinm     s               -  1.36   13416.5  69LI 316*5                            -        -  483.0         -   43.  518?  600.4   a.                          -       - 163.1
L. t163 111J 163I6311                 -  0.6.4  03,063.  *.#9A  20135.1  t.943.)            5.          J.6  IS0*14.2    - 141.3   2A.0  I3.13.4  3 ,11.2    I.1  10.8    L.S 61.1.0
(. 6313(S                             - 1*      S  .WA   11l.2  2bM.4 S1*3.  09411.1  1.114.  636.1                .     - 6*118  3I4o         146.1    5.3  *112.4 l0.1    V1.8 t69 .1
L. I 6U6 S                            -   ML.   6*33.   $tM9    O.492.   1.61.4  hi.q.    60160.1   1336.61              - 64.3    4.6   1.0           91.3     4LI       3. 4I 9.8  046
i. muuk -  su I        .Naw-u         - 106.sp  &IN.$  g..                  -       .a    ou.11              210.m1.     - uw.85   86.    II6.                   A       31.9          I.6..
f. 110a  asssin
...... ...... . _. ....... 
*661                               -  *2143     6.435.3  S1t.3    33.9   646.0  86301.1   661.    2 44                     131.5 4-0.9   131.3   31.4    01        9.1 *       3.4J   1  1 .11.
n                                  -.    VI.       6.6    a"          8.6       13       60.3         -    loon.?           0.3    8.        6.0       4.3    64        4.1      -    19..-
.-~Id0u6 61053(8. M1611              *  4.61.6  1s666.3  s.o3        3*14.   6.164        33...3  6.3164        1....-.  -   up.?   1.3               30.6        . A       "- .  61.. 3.36.6
8. 6t616
16808 633865             6,031.5  3.33.6  3*#18.   3*169.  3be.9 134   3.33.  flo.31632611.3               3461.0   326.3   36.1   3m.6  tem? law.510169.9'  6114 .6
*4-6.1.6 9346860              66,31.3  bly.914   20.um   3s.29.  3*oMA   hilm.a   043.060          1105.20.    - 633.  6,541 30.3            34.36.    M"3.  2461. 343.0  U.816.I
..~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ...                                                  .    ...    ....
MOM6643          -1                         4   391.l 6 40011.5    -t  NOW.- now'  NOMA                    *OJ.6       -    61.028.    14   -1 .?  S            2 ..   n".                     C
6. 5319(                                           3*6166 1*3.6  6.63    61.605.?11.136.10,311)    4.1130                             36. M     13.  6,6.   .19?6631619.                  1.
1. fin   u"   _ m                     -        -14    11.104   ?#*S  t01 IL 3  IS~ 3t  .6                   m. -                 - 4 1699  J1 9 .1 64.?  9f .9  9  .3 5.91.01.1.   SM.? .
._ _ ........                       - .  _. ...........  _ _....  _-- ._ ...........    _   .         _         _    __ maccam aS.... .. .cs.    ..  . .  .... ....... .........
mat 1111|s ats                 -341.  mV.9 000. N                                  I ttll o   14tes I     .9  me.t"9          14*13L  15111  Ultl.?  Ult,  ,",.1Sst t.? 4*114     MONA
.. ..... ........ 
l. oom0  I66                         -  1e290.3  let"       4s6.4  93.6  23663.4   6.392     614    43.10.3             -   W.4   16.    161.-    14          6.6   916.4  91.?  1,0.s
6.  me      eumm          a   I a    -311    sa6.4  *430.6   1.3-.4  6WI36   #613.  l6*0                    1".113.3   4-       .    dO.9    4        269.2   "6.   "%.   W.0  U.406.
C.  maius I Is                       -  I6'4.  61.3  631t.  61.9l 3.4  614 16            09.9 1261X.   609.10    -  *                0111.6    MA.6  6 2    6.1.9  69.1.461   6            .
U. 6513611                           -    308.5    31.3       49.3    606.2    161.6       WA        64    16211.       -    31.      36.3    4A       02.0    00.0    3.O   6.8         91.5
a. unas  -aoms                             613S     63.4    209A       21L.     3 3.1    219".0    38.9    6143.1    -    J63         6.0J   23.1    23    22.2    21.1   2.            16.1
_. ......   . .........t... ...._ . _. .  .... .......        c_. ........ ...... .............. ...... . .............. ........ .........- ----- ------ -------
h.al 6365    51no                        * 6b1 6  69*42  641.69 6?#J.0  69.32.3 6*9.8211   UAW11.$14. 914.6                     1*11410.6  W A.0 613.6 6*311.3 3.96.6 *.6..... 9,63".1  100.-2.
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vs4x4  sms **4ss soeng fssa& as lta   ngse *S; at  ;;4ag  *.4444
~~~~~~~~~~IdduL  itlm   D1SI -3 aW W.100I.4 0,10.2t'> I.VneM                               tll$0S. 1116"    l. Wo34.2 19&W               IW.A 04sM.  0489A *M.    l 90L1 n0119
OaS" sags.."s A.*8"&  Ss"5                &Aa*U&*  * S" as$.** & .ss S.....assasa    s.5*8S    *4.* SIaS  c*cm.S  s.-s.s  s           ..&..,;*3#5&S  .......*.. .
................... .............  ...............................................................  .................   .  ..................................................... **** -- b*borP -**  **........................ ............ .
.%.u IM.



*,6.4!  ra'"'S   * .pyw         *'a*'   ,*-I*                           .m u '
'4                                 **'*.a  giner.s    *ia'9*    S*m'I    ; 1                                Sle MwD) c    'w gp;
,1 ,  . ~~~~~~~~..........   .............. ...........   ...........   ...   ...........
Ka  X  ^-^,P                                                  win  la ur ' VW&
-                                         rW*S                    immuw a am" *tg
. .... .................  .........  ........
*~~~~~~~~~~W IN z1 lm 1 '
.. ~ ~~ .-ap .us -                                                             a  S
~~~*                                                       953 WWPUIIUI '
*               -          *         *iw                  uusme.uahaau'
*           *          *         *                 ui.lImUMawamlIs
VI15 33313
* u   sie            rus        eia'    rw                           sm        mi wasa"^
*       *im's                                               Ia *a  Sam               It
-       * _ds        -i -                                                _      .a sl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__............ _._.....__
*  *    *         -                    flJSUP ~~~~M13310135101-PM
*                          S-is's  *  -                     -                                                u
^~~~~~~id   '                                       *          -         - -
X0 ~~~~~~~~~~.. ._._._..  ............. ............  ....... .........
smaa wwins Is
*        -           -                     45.3           1113531- - 53101 @mIla
*  .        .                     -..   ......... .. .
*   -                      -                                 mimam  awawass iB
-                     53USD~~~~~I   101PMM 
anm PM-cmii
s.n. .@.. - .     ..........a. ...... ...........'
oln-                       -  ,                        s,w,
WJU tiE              135             3       al
mm ~ ~ ~ m
mum.. .ua   mum~~~~~~~~~........... .
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Doi w "am a_"
saum
._ ... ~ . __ ...... _._ ...... _ _ . ~ . ____..........._.__._
_W ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IN _  XX
in"    Wm    4m  lamw9. lwwa
XW*                      __X_NXO   392O W _NW0
ams mas    Omn0vlw
loo



tn
'jew
eM
(p
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ __._._._ ..................... _._._ ----- ..;;.. _ -- 
r,061           rum   _"   ws ra  e* rl "pg    rasst g's  swwrsn r"w                                               mm              $,am    M                   malw                          f
k.".._ ________
wVIS    1,'111,    r43   rel           'w       nwiat    Will"I        st  4W1          *gU'N    MilW    tat's    sms  %lae    'wgqa r uls "tll                                          6su       Ptl
ram      ems',      rums  Vw" e ip's             sc        rue's  Vs-s  rVe"                s         t's rs-s  Ua5s ' r 1,    W'U' rsg IVNO, Wm's                                      's     3 ots "a
no       ss           w'  rtu'        s-we       s'         ws sa         tw             sw's    s-e'    sw'          us's   iues       sw'  a-us-s        s-s   sues                 5',trn P4'
C               .        .        .         .          .               .       .        .           .           .           .        .             .      .                           StmuM '
. .   .        .                      ,       .        .                        . .  -    .       .         .       --                -              u      *ausum.l
* ~  ~           ~                             -         -    -            -                                                    3U  l SD'
-~              .          .        .        .        .*               .               .        .         .        .        .                 -            -                     *p3,13n_
*        -          -       -         -                    -       -  .                            - .                -   .                     - -                           seesmmz_nlwa
sum uwu 11
*  .  .  .  .  .  .  -      .              .        .         .         .       -                .          .                              uwarn   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ..  .  
v_W~~~~~~~~~~~~a                       ram       ra      ro-   we"                       ram      vlw        el      "Ua    ra            ra     rum  rva             tm  vxu     tl*t llt
.   .   .      . ~~~~ .                          .       .        .        .           .          .      .           .         .       .     . -ar   mm tt
*. .                            .          .    .        .           .              .        .         .         .       .             .        .        -  .                              ur
Wu X313120003mom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . _. . . . .. . ..... . ....... ......... I_..1
' .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........    ,,..,,
#411~~~~9             m         "          m t    Ill        no      n              .q        ol,     W%          u       a11111    W                W      elost   mmmmia4   o               l Ds O
fl"                 rum   slw'  V         '     s,04       "all  ow    tst-a             #q    W-lw   silo's          ssn    rn          sw  r   sat       eUmss  s114           uSmt I
WWoS    sm"          "-swes  sus'    isaq       sIR    rsam r15'               t         rCI'      54a*5s o16          we"s  OW'         tel"  Sw'S        *loW   0-"ts                       $" *3
W        *VW&       4I,  01151        SinS      Sel"      Sglu    "a's  .51'              119'    `151'      - w-s'   esr  9   ml&    o's,  ran            ram    mell               Omanm  a1mm1 *g
wiu~~~~  ~a VW 4    raqf tar1t    rail$    wit"  ril glea    lt                    l      16      4,14       ow"    slat       W$" . "a           m l S*                  s"_,   n
OWN   aMO  m       cMO    amu         tuaa      #41c.    soe"   omm     earn umut    amu           gum.    Omn        tams        us"       11  cant iNW"   tam   mii  a
-_33         3     3013  3tUi          133          3IlSit3 31595 SiAS   _wa              'S UlS   13lt33   19133      05m Mc              613 133 W        513  13WU
Sam          W    _         13553   53A6s9 91m 3133                            US-     5311131    35313mm    0t3               minXU l    iwag a      am am1m   13 15J  3
1333m l 33*13              1333    laws3     mm             113*11111101       m.1335    3111331 mm 513  1333   sam  am   mmuum  o3 a3            m         NW"   8108111
lusngn mulm   sums  assoat.  m111 otg=usu c                i    MmiNMM              m   Ilmlm  Mem           M"    GM  M   M=              mma                         a#W
__s    m333        ----- w3         . ...         .. .                -- --------                 $01mm
sm m u                $am#                      111111
amw  m                   w                        is
011101313111331
__imum-       m _,__
6*-, sILu "M
VoUna U"WU s vo3l13 OMt
'1m n      =
"Sam_



MMsmm et
maim   m 1 om3m135
......... .  .... .. . ...                                   ...  .....  .  -  --------
a. ~~~~~~~~88~~1
mingtodemn                          an am         tinmu  -.
lo   uto1  011001 3"  =Ulm  .   Solon   eir                   m    Iatm              gm US              bIS   s        m umo  emum m             mMINIS I5311          Kum6     OI  W
mi   a M  Im    mI         muw  mI       m     uu         gmm  Ii maL  mm a6011W              am 1181 a$mEW                2116 M=  13065m       oa       "o      am S am            am
..... tin  ma ...........                                                                                     ..                                         ..
urnsm amam $sl.o.                                                                                                                       .       .        .             
asamma                       ~ ~ ~~                ~~      ~         ~        ~~. .............. .. ...... .    - .. ..... 
a. loanid ma sum  41to             ,.M.       MAo        211.11     M no.o     6 0  954          WA       11.011*9   to""6           MA    *66.    461.         14106.0      A" 64L 3.3143.66                 MA       130.0
L. t180  4arn                      3.6I4      160       6.55       MA0.     3P.524   $0.61    to.0 846.5   2.04     isms             613.5  1415.5     MA1.       9204     fe1.66     2460*1464              13         26.
S., SniMMA 131                       MA46    84"5       3 4         MO2        W-564   3.460    6415      1.0-44    0        3       .92500.1  90"   W4.5.      4.355      3464       514"  3.460            a".        20.0
LIWISgm   am1                    45.4604   3.0"        30.*4.   UdSW.*    lot"0  21.65.        SOMA6     ?o.34     62.             5.31.   w6.2 064 40.5       b0*.".25              11&46.0 M05S          J.46.        ".62
M OM cm                      g6.42           I.46'.      5.513    4.60.!    3.39 00. 4                     1.12.5MI    *3l   2140    2.1.      30.6  51.962       ..50304             5.13.2^0 UN   am"6L   6.26.      5.11
9.638 (mOss                5.~~~~~~~~16101    U.53  j.0A    4.40.5    4.03.   43421.4    lo3.1,2    &M21,.  5.13.           6.11.2  5.9224  44M51        4.6104     2.02.1    Saw"4   5I.612        2.6).       WA.
U.469S3111



Notion wau * woman
sivum loomm gum mom
urns.      ~" U                  11.     1  Wimp
........................   ................... ......................................................................................................   .............
FM I tiG  tam
...................... .................. . .........................  .#g"
woo  a                       m     um0                                                ........ .... _S.
smas Sam                     ism                 am   mm   "wm  ""tont emi mu  *t os
low * a            *a I     tlm  -               uam          1mm     amum U       11 1A 1511 S 
_m               "as -  em  no m- sautm a _um   mum                             mum    *u   amumopilm
to  mmi am #s       a mmamAn  em tw         gmuI    01es.        am.         uMk       owea    n am         tms$
e. mim   wa
..  .  .....                       .        .          .        .        . 
so",_" meS IINIM             1'         a    "104N        US       %MS          aU        00         W0         WA         WA         W     IOW
:. dUM    Iii.s                                      53*    3354       3.4          - . e. s"      . #$.A
t_ .sg. m ,sai  zswm *uu.;
e. muses tFiltasm
e. wood$
||||b d       sw~lzlll
_...........-                                                                        -.                           ..-
~~~~~~~~~........ .    ..... ....   . .....   .. .   ...    ......  .           ....    .......    ....      .......     ......
mm   mm,                                        .        .                        _ . -.     .               .         .
I' "- ~~~~~~~.. .. .... .......... ...... ..... ... ._ .. .. .. . ..... . .. ..  ..... . _._..... _.__....... .. .._ .. ...... ..... ..... ...... .... .. ..
"mm
Sam    am...... ........  ___                                                                      .        . . . . . .      .   ..........  ....
lid                           4.1no56M'   $0W.0      5*6.    300116.0   5.1   2.363*     &INA.    2.33.0       23.3       26113*    bUU.   1411.
m, urns m
ma||| .1                                                          . .  ._
amAmam                      .- .-.....- ...                 ..................... .......... ................................. ............ ...... ....... .......... ..
I- ~ ~   ~         ~         ~        ~         ~       ~*-                               - ~ -m -.5.    *.1.  1.,.   3430s..  .64 23.  .3* 23.  ..  ..    41
~~lt-                gss    bs.    ove.e   a.".  *^tssasssst $&Ros    agsas4  opm"*         "e           ^       ss        2t"^       2    
&M1J       53.       101t.4    113.3  411I.1    216.0       234       2.0"1       23.6    20M.0         1.4    262.5-
U.su., t.4.~                     '*.       @t    *.4    ||           n4.          31       eL          31        0.          31        831 gN.
#'fBtSF........-.......,. ... .  ...... ......., 
1.1.  *85                           JI 1. W2?   ....*   i..          *e*.*       3.IUJX    tl. *.5 bUl  .634.sS             Idttl:5    SdU.1l.  6.?5:9%                 C



man own mm
mnes$ m0hw
m m. sma low s
g                                       ii. mu~~~~~~~~~m sms  MIne  su
.e _zw too
..............................................     ,                 ,                m
No_       a                     gm  a                      cm an .......              ._.........
w'mm ims p imas s  tows asms  11111KI                           ia 1110a.         mIHu   I. 5551 S.              lis
stae   sn   saw w. mm guos *--m                              nos    was   ms   aunwam                            sun$
u. ein mm     iam   $mm             to -.   Sue    a fhINS  USsa m. mussm  ineInw    n.s.ae                     "ago se
nMs   ma  intow  em"  tows  loga m                                      NOuiat umm  em.f   55 "%AmS
sMs    mm     M_ _   was   -                        . t   u  n     "mus"     Wm        m u         I         mess    ""It      l         S
a. tlmis 1Iia                                                                                                                                        m
...............
*.        t o                                         *         -           ,       -                 -        *           .                   -        -   w     its *.e   n..
g. swumoa s                                  ' m       .        .        .                  .         .         ,          ,          ,         ,       ,      4"4  5.0 5
IL tt                               '        '                           .       .                                                            ,,,.                    .    a.W
dwe    e                                                                                                                              *       -     6*a  a.a   .1 e
.....................
Li  sd    O       53               *             .        .        .        .        .              . '             -         * -                            b*tt.  0.0   6.
t~~~ .                                     .             .        .        .          .                .        .         .              .    * 9143.1 5.0 i.3t
Su. ..l 55..                                                     .. -  .    .  .    .    .   .     .    .       .        . .                   . . "
Otis          alem60                                                                                                                                                    t
. .3.u  ..-
as. s . imum              ...........  ..... .... ...........  . ...... ._ ._._.... .. _  .. _. _ _ _ _ . .  . ............
a.   U   MNESii  ,*  .                  ..                         . 5      3        1.0        *3.        3*        33*        *     i~~    0.    0.0
S*h a. *an. -  -   * a -       -        3.5   '.6.   '..   '..   ' .m.a.                                       .      '          '              .            465.O.         9.
SPA1.101d                                                                                                             BA$ 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.1.   .0  110A
L f.  f C URS INU  NO0                    M         58       S.       s.a.ms           i.        85         ..        53          .4       55* ii.    *5P.o m .i            0.0
a. muslim ao SUE-S*6 -----53.         .. ..........- .. ._   ............ .......... ........  .                         ....     .        .  
a. swsesuina isis  .  .        .         .*                              -         - -                        *       s.           *.    . *,*.s n..
a.m       i Saga                         .0       .5       .*. uJ   .mi               ama       aP.       ama        am          ..        .. amm.a   en.M-  CS .D5 .'
Xl~~~~~ t                                                .       .        .     -             .         .           .     *         *    *       *  *   .31,,.   0.0*o 
.*   .         ......                                      ,                                                                                                  , .  ,*  . .s   ms   *.0 .  me   . e  .   u    *s.  ***  *
|F. elm  ||| $a l li             "Al4     M$       "A|l.             g" 29  to.l      st@s.fit"" o   *   -            -"M                                   1sI so
L'            I                  3       533.8    6.         3.        .    11          33.       32.5      52.        1.         3.        4.             54ee I   .o    , 8
Serng I 2 _ #              *        *        *        *       *        *       *       -       -       *      *             -               ....                               o- 
t&VWAI                         tXJ=2mi  we XZ Mt-j &..      &0.          4.11t  11&M.9    2e.W.        1.1.8     I-A-  lo.J       hw tS.ll    Iowat   04m   Lll1 F*  6.1 O    t M s   p
e t4 _               *##99*~~~~.10.0-  6,,.0 , Wa,s,e ,    *,,,eosesv, W&**",t ,****      ..*,@     O__  806g,,,ooe 000000m      I'MOO-DW*,,  ,,t*    ,                 X  
IdKl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  401At   MAs  ISL   *1-    W3 WS W                                                          11          -
WA.                                                                                                                         . OW3



. . b *r* *.....  .    . **o*. . .   .........
misam  maca er Macin ma
Ksi as aci a sins...
.................................
.   ... ... .. ..................................    .................................... .....
.... ..... . ..............................................................
f":    I                l~su. maim
lIPSa.o   C ase.s  454                                oeita
5195  19         Li            Le
5.Le                         11.         to             C
ii           IS~~1.       51.5         1 
ii               5.41         0.0                       Is
*nu5          I                 5.5         84.5
It               LI0          301.         5I
iSa              4.5          3.5
69          ~~~5.0        31.3        So            a
urn                    5~~    ~    ~~~.0  53.5
of               I's          56.5        49            3
III              4*0          543.
ft~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I0. 
I            3~~ ~~.0    4W.302
11               1,5          51.5    *     .9          4
off              5.0          5.S,
gm                     1~~~~~.0     131.         4
".5~~~~~
*6S  I92.0                     I.5        of            a
oIl 8.                         1.5 
II               2.0          13.3        49            0 3
8.5                           15.0       if
SW  6.0  15.0   91       98 ~           ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~e$    Wgo
im     0.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Is               0.1                                    9
nI               0.5            6.0      1            *
. , . .   . . . . . . . .  .  . .  .  .   ....       .   .
oOA 1b                          O. d;,hwgmt Pettis ei   Iv    sue Spasg e F'm$                                                                     eos
Ii               *.8                                                          '0 
glel Wee' I.1.



ATIONAL AGISCULTURAL IESEAC  POJECT
Prelet Js.l_entattl.  Schedal
Pr.ojec To .Preo                    1       a       a      4        s              
91      92      93      94     9S       95      el      9t      S9      208
IMR F1                    "0/el  91/92    92/93    93/0C   94/9S    9C/96    90/S7    97/99   99/99  99/waee
,~ ~~11. .  3i9      4 12314 1E 2191 114_1 3i1        1_11 31.113     14_ 218 3 _  2 3E  4
c Closig Date
-Estabi ishneat of MACARt 'ad Secretariat
- acrmentaI Sealer SLtal Apoi.nta.eta
Ia OAS
stienal Research Strategy Plea                                                                                                         am
*  pra.," a II- 
o  UI/alica RevIew .0R.cm     atlt ea             I                 *          | -   j f l 111111111-   -   
- Resartb Greet Scheme               _--|
lume. Rtesource 9.vel.peeet
NM9 plan
FUSoa t   Review                         I c eI I   I Recommendations
o heralah   Treioe5  Plea                                  I     I
masoegmet staff                                              t
Seleatifie Staff 
*  liaaa--------
- ReiealclosaeeeWAdministrati veloSetaffI 
*  ror,tytet leader eato
sAgriculurlReeMc anagement  ystms                                  I          I           amm
lfaormation System (CAREMIS)                            - - ----
o Financial Ub e_.t and Accounting                         *          g , ; ___                 g



M&rImw. A..LTUR& .as""  ._ CT
wolo s"           fol    .t a      a              9a    X 96      9X      so      to    2
- ar.mer. __.IO              .                           - .          ___ _
I_  FV                  90/f    *I;"    sa/n    83/96  2410    96/99  8@?  97/99    99/9    og/2
U,!i1                                                                 I           lili1111
qmrtA1            1 21411 214              2      112    4 1 2  1 1 2131 1123              2    
lCR!                                                     -       li_i
*~~ ~ ,.m.e  et                                    I -- -    
*Farm (qwlgapm.t                                         I
P*t .b le;.
*mid-Term
* $Is Mnsthly                                            *1.                     .I
*  Wuite FI..d.3 SWAtameata                                           ol       1'



NIGERIA
NATIOAL AGRIULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
O_n d 0 F0*r@1MInbisly ol Scec  n  eholog  nd the
OrganogWam of the F=WMa @n1 Aofuiua Scinene s ombWg
Ssmw*h &mbav odAnw eaiTSdw.k"
Dbe~oi F~uO            Obsdw                                              bsdin
Mmod"        __                                              T.dugaid
Fkmw,,w
........ ... D.p.Obose"=. .. ....... .........            .......
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD a II I                                       I'ed
J_F                                      Cm"1                              *11



NATIONAL AQRICUTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
* _   Ogog    for tb Naid Advis Coryo_
- or AV-R"a m R(ACAR)
Sciwn  Iclud On  MACAR Sertmd
PMgT..I Q,d UV|deUS                    S*u1U
IS.  . S hiWA
,.  _  l e t m;: I .F
I _ I I L ~~~~~~~~&ie I  tL t-I  
C80 _] T  l r  8 1| l *l l 
C A t  af6||_FqI      
fJ"T - F_  d_"l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CWA6T"
FeT-    Wft9c9w_otfW



_               ~-93-
Pag    of Z
tATOUWI    2RZC1IL?UA   ESMKACR PROJECT
DO      S AVAZLARLt IN MIETC 
A. BackEround
1. Maaging Agricultural Development
In Africa (MAD?A)
a a join study by eight donort and
six African GoVerAMents (World Bank,
USAD, MCODA,  ANEA, CIDA) the French
and G.an Govervnents; Kenya. Malawi.
Tanzania, Cameroon. Nigeria ad Senegal
2. Strategy for Agricultural Growth La Nigeria          World tank
Agricultural
Sector Report
N0. 7966-UNI,
Deceber 1989
-. Agricultural Policy for Nigeria                      Federal Miaistry of
Agriculture and
Natural Resources
(Fozerly Fedral
Ministry of
Agriculture. Water
Resources and Rural
1evelopmsnt),
January 198?. Lagos
B.   Proiect Identfication MA  21e2arati9n-19e9or
1. Project  Broe  - Main Text and four Working.
Pars, FAOICP Report No. 139188 CP-NMU 27P1.
Jaauszy 1989
2. Project Preparation Report * Main Text and Five
Working Papers. FAOICP Report No. 136189 Cl ITO 59,
October 1989



-94                       A
Page Z of 2
C. *;rcgLcna P^soeS
1. Organization and Management.
2. Research Kange8met in Nileria -   chanisas and
Procedures-
3. Research Crant Scheme
4. Human Resource DeveLopmet
S. Research-Extension Linkage Program
6. Livestock Research
7. Forestry S Eavironent
S. Fisherist Research
9. Tree Crops Research
10. food and Fiber Crops Research
11. Techbical Assistance
12. Ag4icultural Research ?nfomation Services
13. Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables



laRD 22274
|/rN                                      N   I  G   E   R                                                          __K;
Dis/ X ) -fixe J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 0R N 0 N_ #I['/C 
N
BEN N I N',>  <  CY  98As4H/ 1Z  C_
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A ,   H I                                                                                 0  
N I ,C  E <.0 FO  *  t^4   / >. 'I v 6 R                                                                              CDerrved Soo   75   5 7    .ICHAD
_4^~~~~~~kw                                              MINNAEts   -8-I-lT                                                                                   4
A  GONGOL A   (~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL I
8'-           .                                                                                                 G I   N  G I     _     I                               LIAAY I990
I0                            KIL0MOTE4S    NAY
r   8.                          0,                          tO'                        I4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, -J."



NIGER                               NAllONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOCATION OF AGMICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTIUMT                                   C
AND MAJOR FEDERAL UNIVERSMTIES
BURKINA j\ -  
KANO                          B~~~~~ORNO
BENIN                                                                                                                     NIM   1 Aa<
,  v l $ t--1 T BAUCHi 5 /> PLATEA
34 f5  7-f ),1C8bR
3 0(,-,UN                                                                                                        2 FIO       14 HAm
3 LA       15 AMS
BENN CrrY                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 WAR  16 LAR
0946                21 5oON                                                            CON      17H P 
1819        ANA                                                                    6 FN        16N8 $m
7 NINOf    19 tamI
d~~~~~~~~~~~li    RIV*                                        *  oato o z-nwa xseoci  f                   U~         V
0   Loabo ofAursudu) Rsarc kevtm 9 OmI     21 NXCm
WUU                        U   Fdercl 1.weadies with Major Faarm of Agdcullwe    im   J   AN
21                     A   Federal Univeftmteo of Acda&m         113 Lsu
12 NCY      214 NrTR
.-       S-c.   ou:i



