Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2261 UNI
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 6, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2261 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1991, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Development Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "ASD" means the Agricultural Sciences Department of
FMST;
      (b)   "FMST" means the Federal Ministry of Science and
Technology of the Borrower;
      (c)   "HRDP" means the human resource development plan
referred to in Part A.5 of the Project;
      (d)   "NACAR" means the National Advisory Committee for
Agricultural Research established by the Borrower on October 30,
1990;
      (e)   "NACAR Secretariat" means the Secretariat established
within ASD by the Borrower to serve NACAR;
      (f)   "Naira" means the Borrower's currency;
      (g)   "NRSP" means the national research strategy plan
prepared under part A.3 of the Project;
      (h)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Project Period" means the period between the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement and the Closing Date;
      (j)   "Research Institute" means any of the following
institutes: (1) Institute of Agricultural Research; (2) Lake Chad
Research Institute; (3) National Cereals Research Institute; (4)
Institute of Agricultural Research and Training; (5) National Root
Crops Research Institute; (6) Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria;
(7) Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria; (8) Nigerian Institute for
Oil Palm Research; (9) Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria; (10)
National Institute for Horticultural Research; (11) National Animal
Production Research Institute; (12) National Veterinary Research
Institute; (13) National Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research;
(14) Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute; (15) National
Institute for Fresh Water Fisheries Research; (16) Nigerian
Institute for Oceanography and Marine Research; (17) National
Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services; and (18)
Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)   "Sub-accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to fifty-eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 58,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
Page  3
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in the name of FMST in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, through FMST, open separate special
deposit accounts (Sub-accounts) in one or more commercial banks, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment), in
the name of each Research Institute for the purpose of carrying out
Part B.4 of the Project.
      (d)   Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
and each Sub-account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commenc-
ing July 15, 2001 and ending January 15, 2026. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on January 15, 2011, shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-
1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
Page  4
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through FMST
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, management and research practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through FMST, maintain
a project account (the Project Account) in the name of FMST in a
commercial bank in Nigeria, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, and shall withdraw funds from the Project Account
solely to pay for expenditures for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the Borrower's
obligation under paragraph (a) of this Section, and in addition to
the initial amount referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account, within 30 days
following the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower (beginning
with the first full fiscal quarter falling within the Project
Period), 25% of the counterpart contributions of the Borrower
required for expenditures under the Project for the current fiscal
year, as specified in the estimate delivered by FMST under paragraph
(c) of this Section. The Borrower and the Association presently
estimate the said counterpart contributions for the Project to
amount, in 1990 prices, to about $26,000,000 equivalent over the
Project Period.
      (c)   For the purposes of estimating the Borrower's counter-
part contributions under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause FMST to prepare and furnish to the Association, for its
review, by September 30 of each fiscal year, a detailed statement of
expenditures proposed under the Project for the following fiscal
year.
      Section 3.03. In addition to the obligations of the Borrower
under Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
expend each year on agricultural research not less than Naira
141,000,000, in constant 1990 Naira.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
ensure that by December 31, 1991, the vaccine production of both the
bacterial and viral vaccines managed by the National Veterinary
Research Institute will be managed by an independent commercial
entity.
      Section 3.06. During the Project Period, the Borrower: (a)
shall, through FMST, prepare a draft national agricultural research
program (including a procurement schedule) and agricultural research
budget for each fiscal year; (b) shall, through FMST, submit such
draft to the Association for its comments at least 45 days prior to
the beginning of such fiscal year; and (c) shall adopt each fiscal
year a final national agricultural research program and agricultural
research budget taking into consideration the views expressed by the
Association.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall operate NACAR and the NACAR
Secretariat in accordance with the membership and terms of reference
attached as Annexes A and B to this Agreement.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, through FMST: (a) carry out
not earlier than June 30, 1994, and not later than December 31,
1994, jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project; and (b) modify implemen-
tation of the Project taking into account the conclusions of such
review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have rea-
                   sonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Association shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
      (d)   The Borrower shall ensure that the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) above applicable to the Special Account are
complied with in respect of each Sub-account.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Project Account shall have been opened by the
Borrower through FMST and shall contain at least 5,000,000 Naira
deposited therein by the Borrower.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Honourable Minister of Finance and Economic
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
              and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FEDMINFIN                 21248
                   Lagos
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                         By /a/ Zubair Mamoud Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                3,400,000        40%
    under Part
    Part B.6 of
    the Project
(2) Plant, equip-             20,600,000        100% of foreign
    ment, vehicles                              expenditures and
    and spare parts                             75% of local
    under Parts A.1,                            expenditures
    A.2, A.5, B.1
    and B.2 of the
    Project
(3) Goods and consul-            400,000        100%
    tants' services
    under Part A.3 of
    the Project
(4) Goods and consul-          4,900,000        100%
Page  8
    tants' services
    under Part A.4 of
    the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Consultants'               1,700,000        100%
    services under
    Parts A.1, A.2,
    B.2, B.3 and
    B.5 of the
    Project
(6) Consultants' ser-          9,800,000        100%
    vices and training
    under Part A.5
    of the Project
(7) Goods and consul-         11,300,000        100% until
    tants' services                             $9,000,000 has
    under Part B.4 of                           been disbursed;
    the Project                                 75% until an
                                                additional
                                                $2,700,000 has
                                                been disbursed;
                                                50% until an
                                                additional
                                                $2,000,000 has
                                                been disbursed;
                                                and 25%
                                                thereafter
(8) Unallocated                6,400,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     58,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to develop the institutional
framework and improve the research management systems for agricul-
tural research in Nigeria and to strengthen the research capacity of
institutions in Nigeria.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Development of Agricultural Research System
1.    NACAR: Operation of NACAR (a) to assist in the development of
Page  9
national policies and priorities, and the allocation of resources,
for agricultural research, (b) to advise on the coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of their implementation, and (c) to
improve the coordination between FMST as the generator and the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources as the user of
new agricultural technologies.
2.    ASD and NACAR Secretariat: Strengthening the operation of ASD
in coordinating, planning and managing agricultural research.
Operation of the NACAR Secretariat (a) to provide operational
support for NACAR, (b) to monitor and supervise implementation of
the Project jointly with other units of ASD, and (c) to support
ASD's general coordination, planning and managerial activity.
Acquisition by ASD of equipment and vehicles necessary for such
operations.
3.    National Research Strategy Plan: Preparation of a national
research strategy plan (the NRSP) to (a) identify the needs and
priorities of agricultural research, and (b) allocate human,
financial and other resources of FMST and the Research Institutes to
address these needs and priorities.
4.    Research Grant Scheme: Development and operation of a research
grant scheme to finance grants for qualified Nigerian persons and
organizations to conduct agricultural research projects.
5.    Program for Human Resource Development: Training of the
management, scientific, technical and administrative support staff
at ASD, the Research Institutes and selected universities and the
acquisition of equipment by such institutions to assist such
training; preparation of a human resource development plan (the
HRDP) to coordinate such training.
Part B:     Strengthening of Research Institutes
1.    Rehabilitation of the facilities of the Research Institutes
through the repair, replacement and supply of laboratory equipment,
vehicles, farm machinery, computers and other equipment.
2.    Establishment at Research Institutes of "centers of excel-
lence" for specified fields relating to agricultural research (such
as virology, nematology, biological control and integrated pest
management, and soil and fertilizer management) and concentration of
related manpower and equipment at such centers.
3.    Development and implementation of an efficient research
information system, including the establishment of a research
information center for the exchange of information.
4.    Conduct of agricultural research programs, in particular in
the following areas: (a) food and fiber crops, (b) tree crops,
(c) livestock and fisheries, (d) forestry and the environment, (e)
stored products, (f) agro-processing, and (g) soil and water
management.
5.    Development and operation of an efficient research extension
linkage program between researchers and farmers.
6.    Completion of construction of additional laboratory and other
facilities at selected Research Institutes agreed upon with the
Association.
                          *     *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  10
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published by the
Association in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods (other than those goods to
be procured to carry out Part B.4 of the Project) estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract or for works may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods (other than those goods to
be procured to carry out Part B.4 of the Project) estimated to cost
the equivalent of $60,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods necessary to carry out Part
B.4 of the Project may be procured as follows, after approval of the
Association in connection with the national agriculture research
programs referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement or otherwise:
(a) items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; (b) items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $60,000 or less per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association;
and (c) items or groups of items for goods may be procured under
such other procedures as may be approved by the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods or works
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $500,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account or any Sub-
account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Page  11
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    Beginning December 31, 1994, the NACAR Secretariat shall
operate, under Part A.1 of the Project, an agricultural research
management information system to account for the total cost of
agricultural research by the Research Institutes.
2.    By March 31, 1991, FMST shall have appointed within the NACAR
Secretariat, under Part A.1 of the Project, the following three
internationally recruited advisors: one research management systems
advisor, one research planning advisor for the preparation of the
NRSP and one financial management advisor.
3.    The NRSP shall be prepared by NACAR, in consultation with the
Association, by December 31, 1992, and shall delineate proposals for
the succeeding five years. NACAR, FMST and the Association shall
meet before March 31, 1993, to determine how to implement the
proposals of the NRSP.
4.    The Research Grant Scheme referred to in Part A.4 of the
Project shall operate as follows:
      (a)   research proposals shall meet the following criteria to
be eligible for a grant:
            (i)   the research must be in a priority area as deter-
                  mined by NACAR and in accord with the NRSP (fol-
                  lowing its completion);
           (ii)   the results must likely be of immediate use to
                  farmers;
          (iii)   the research must have a reasonable chance of
                  being completed within three years; and
           (iv)   the proposal must be technically sound and must
                  sufficiently take into account relevant earlier
                  work;
      (b)   applications for grants shall be submitted to the NACAR
Secretariat, and evaluated and approved by NACAR;
      (c)   the first ten grants approved by NACAR shall have been
previously jointly approved by FMST and the Association;
      (d)   grants shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000 per
year, or a total of the equivalent of $150,000, unless otherwise
agreed to by the Association;
Page  12
      (e)   any Research Institute, university or any other
qualified Nigerian person or organization involved in agricultural
research shall be eligible to apply for a grant;
      (f)   each grant shall be made under an agreement requiring
that procurement out of the proceeds of such grant be made in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (g)   each grant shall be made under an agreement requiring
that proceeds of such grant (i) only be used to finance items or
groups of items of goods or services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less, and (ii) not be used to finance any
civil works; and
      (h)   progress under the grants shall be reviewed annually by
NACAR and any grant may be cancelled following such review for
insufficient progress.
5.    The HRDP shall be prepared by ASD, in consultation with the
Association, by December 31, 1992, and shall be coordinated with the
NRSP.
6.    FMST shall:
      (a)   by December 31, 1991, enter into agreements with at
least three universities under which FMST shall finance: (i) the
training of staff at the faculties of agriculture at such univer-
sities so as to enable such staff, in turn, to train the staff of
ASD and the Research Institutes under Part A.5 of the Project; and
(ii) the acquisition of equipment, under Part A.5 of the Project, to
assist such training; and
      (b)   beginning on March 31, 1991, adopt annual training
plans, agreed upon with the Association and conforming to the HRDP
(following its completion), to train staff at ASD and the Research
Institutes, including provisions for training outside Nigeria.
7.    By December 31, 1991, FMST shall have designated Research
Institutes as "centers of excellence," under Part B.2 of the
Project, for at least four specified fields and shall reallocate
resources to concentrate manpower and equipment for each such field
in the correspondingly designated Research Institute.
8.    The Borrower shall, under Part B.4 of the Project, only
finance out of the proceeds of the Credit those research proposals
agreed upon with the Association. All research proposals initiated
by the Borrower under Part B.4 of the Project following completion
of the NRSP shall be consistent with the plan's recommendations.
9.    Beginning June 30, 1993, ASD, in consultation with NACAR,
shall establish under Part B.4 of the Project panels (Review
Panels), with terms of reference agreed upon with the Association
(including participation by internationally recruited experts), and
shall cause the Review Panels to conduct reviews of the management
and performance of the research programs of at least three Research
Institutes each year. The Borrower shall cause each Research
Institute to be reviewed: (a) to prepare a report describing its
research activities and assemble all relevant documentation for the
Review Panel at least three months prior to its review; and (b) to
implement any recommendations of the Review Panel. NACAR shall
monitor such implementation.
10.   Beginning in 1992, the Borrower and ASD shall: (a) prepare two
reports each year, one for the first six months of such year and one
for the entirety of such year, regarding the status of agricultural
research in Nigeria; and (b) send to the Association each such
report no later than 60 days following the end of the period covered
by such report. ASD, on the basis of these reports, shall exchange
views with the Association on the status of agricultural research in
Nigeria and shall take into account any comments by the Association
regarding the conduct of such research.
Page  13
11.   ASD shall monitor and supervise implementation of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively:
(a) for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule; or (b) in accordance with paragraph 7 of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account (whether direct-
                  ly, or indirectly through any Sub-account in
                  accordance with paragraph 7 of this Schedule) for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account:
      (a)   for an eligible expenditure, the Borrower shall, at such
Page  14
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence (received under
paragraph 7 (c) of this Schedule or otherwise) showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures; and
      (b)   in the case of any payment made under paragraph 7 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made in accordance
with paragraph 7 (a) of this Schedule.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categor-
ies shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account or any Sub-account:
            (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sched-
                  ule, in the case of the Special Account, or was
                  made for an expenditure not eligible pursuant to
                  paragraph 7 of this Schedule, in the case of any
                  Sub-account, or
           (ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to
                  the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
                  upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
                  such additional evidence as the Association may
                  request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
                  (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
                  to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
                  of such payment or the portion thereof not so
                  eligible or justified. Unless the Association
                  shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
                  Association into the Special Account shall be
                  made until the Borrower has provided such evi-
                  dence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
                  may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) or (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  15
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
7.    (a)   The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and
deposit into each Sub-account funds to assist the Research Institute
beneficiary of such Sub-account to pay for goods and services under
Part B.4 of the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in
amounts sufficient to assist each Research Institute, in the manner
contemplated by Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to pay for such goods
and services in due course, provided that, at no time shall the
Borrower cause the amounts held in any Sub-account to exceed the
equivalent of $50,000.
      (b)   Payments out of any Sub-account shall only be made for
eligible expenditures in respect of Category (7) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Any withdrawal from any Sub-account must be justified to
the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding
eligible expenditures provided for under paragraph 3 of this
Schedule.
      (d)   If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined
at any time that any amount outstanding in any Sub-account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Research Institute beneficiary of such Sub-account shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association or the Borrower, refund to the
Special Account such outstanding amount.
