Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6696
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 865-YDR)
March 30, 1987
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL4 USE ONLY
THt WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A.
Oice of D,tectw.eCtwal
Opeatwms vaoluailNI
March 30, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen - Second Education Project (Credit 865-YDR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: People's Democratic Republic of Yemen -
Second Education Project (Credit 865-YDR)" prepared by UNESCO and
revised by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodration.



PEOPLE's DEMOCRATIC REPt 'IC OF YEMEN
SECON EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 865-YDR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE ........ ............................***...**..** ********i
BASIC DT ........o4-i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                              ................        iv
SUMMARY AND RLCOMMENDATIONS ..,*..* .........................*.        viii
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ..........,..................... ..........           1
Socio-Economic Setting ..........4............ .....            1
Sector Setting         .......    ..........                    2
Formulation of the Project................,.........            2
Project Objectives....... ...........................           4
Project                                                         4 ..... .................. ...  4
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................,......            5
Overview ..........................                             5
Delay Factors ..........................................  5
Project Management and Borrower Performance .........           6
Project Unit ...................... o .................  6
Ministry of Construction ....................           6
Ministry of Education ..... o..................         6
Implementation of Software ....................... 4            6
Technical Assistar6e........ .......... ...... .        6
Curriculum Development     .......         .... ........... 7
Textbooks and Libraries.....................            7
Physical Planning and Design.....................,.             8
Space Provisions           .............                8
Building Designs ............................. 8
Implementation of Civil Works ......... .............           9
Construction Contracts .....................            9
sites .....................................................  9
Site Development ............................ .         9
Construction Quality ........................ .         9
Furniture and Equipment .................... ...... .4.... . . .  10
Consumable Materials ..... ..   * .......... 4.... O..* ... *.  10
Main tenance . . . . . . I . . . . . . .0.   a4. . . .6. .  . . ...   4 10
Special Covenants. * ...*..*....*.......4..                    11
Section 3.02(a) Coordination of Training .....         11
Section 3.02(b) Curricula..................            11
Section 3.02(c) Tracer System ............ o ....      11
Section 3.03    Fellowships ..................         11
Section 4.04    Teachers .....................         11
Association Supervision and Performance .............          12



Table of Contents (con'td)
;V.  PROJECT COST AND ............................ ..........               13
Capital                                C8 ....  13
Ovrvew ...................  13
Civil Works... .................. .....        ..... ...       13
Furiue......... .. ................................... . .... 14
14
Equipmens ................................................. 14
Disbursements ................................................ 14
V.   INITLIL PROJECT OPEMATING OUTCOMES .........................            15
Attainment of Project Objectives ............. 0040.......    ."        15
Objectives           .......................                   15
Achievements^ ...........                                      16
Enrollmentb and Outputs* ............................ 17
Earollmet ..and........    .. ....  ..... ..  ..........       17
6 r a d    u     a     t      e     s         ~~~~~~~~~~~~18
T e a    c       h       e       rs                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18
Teaching Prosram/Curricala.................................            19
The Coumercial Training Center at  aukalla      lla........    19
The Industrial Training Center at Al    odd......              19
The Agricultural Training Center at Saber...........           20
VI    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .................... .                  22
Summary Conclusions..........                                  22
Lessons Learned...........                                     22
ANNEXES
Number         Title
1-1   Comparison of Net and Gross Floor Areas
1-2 Implementation of Civil Works Contracts
2-1   Actual and Estimated Project Costs by Item and Category in US$.
2-2   Actual and Estimated Project Costs in Yemeni Dinars.
2-3   Construction Unit Costs (m2) in US$
2-4   Areas and Costs per Student Place in US$
2-5   Actual and Estimated Cost of Furniture and Equipment in US$
2-6   Actual and Estimated Disbursements by Fiscal Year in US$
3-1   Origin of Students
i-2   Student Enrollments
3-3   Graduates
3-4   Teachers
3-5   Curriculum for the Coumercial Training Center at Mukalla
3-6   Curriculum for the Industrial Training Center at Al aod
3-7   Curriculum for the Agricultural Training Center at Nukalla
ATTACHMENT I: Comments from the Borrower



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 865-YDR)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the implementation of
the Second Education Project in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen,
for which Credit 865-YDR for US$4.0 million was approved in December 1978.
The PCR was prepared for the World Bank Group under the Cooperative
Agreement between Unesco and the World Bank.
At the invitation of the Government, a mission composed of Unesco
staff member, Mr. Mason (general educator and mission leader) and Mr. J.
Jordan (architect-consultant) visited the country for two weeks (February
2-17, 1985). Before working in the country, the mission leader made a
study of the relevant project files held by the World Bank Group in
Washington, D.C. and consulted with Bank staff associated with the project.
These provided the essential background for the mission's field work in
conjunction with discussions held with Government educational authorities
involved with the project. The Closing Date of the Credit was December 31,
1984; the final disbursement was made on July 22, 1985, and the balance of
about US$15,800 cancelled.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower and its agencies and comments received have been taken into
account in finalizing the report and are reproduced as Attachment I.



- ii -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 865-YDR)
Basic Data
A. Key Project Data
Appraisal       Actual or
Estimate        Current
Item                                                 Expectation       Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ Million)                         4.40            6.98
Overruns ()                                                -              582
Credit Amount (US$ Million)                              4.00            4.00
- bisbursed                                           4.00            3.98
- Cancelled
- Repaid
- Outstanding                                          -                -
Date physical components completed                        7/81           3/85
Number of months since credit signature                    31             75
Proportion completed by above date (%)                    100l           1002
Proportion of time overrun ()                             -              142%
Irstitutional Performance                                good            good
B. Other Proiect Data
Original
Item                            Plan       Revisions       Actual
First Mention In Files or Timetable       01-08-76                   01-08-76
Government's Application                  11-23-77                   11-23-77
Negotiations                              08-00-78                   08-17-78
Board Approval                            11-07-78                   12-14-78
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                12-22-78                   12-22-78
Effectiveness Date                        03-22-79      06-22-79     06-18-79
Closing Date                              06-30-82      12-31-84     12-31-84-'
Borrower:                      The Government of the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen
Executing Agency:              Project Unit, Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of the Borrower:  1 January - 31 December
Follow on project name:        Third Education Project
Credit Number:                 1222-YDR
Amount SDR Million:            5.30
Credit Agreement Date:         May 25, 1982
1/ Final disbursement was made on July 22, 1985, and the undisbursed balance
of US$15,827 was cancelled.



-i$1i -
C. Mission Data
Sent   Month    No. of    No. of                  Date of
Item               by     Year     Weeks    ?ersons       Manweek    Report
Identification     Une4sco   1/1976   3e0    1                3.0     unknown
Reconnaissance     Bank     2/1977   2.0      2 A,AE,G,F,     8.0     3/09177
Preparation        Bank     8/1977   0.3      2 A,F           1.6     8/11/77
Appraisal          Bank     1/1978   3.0      3 A,AE,F        9.0     11/10/78
8.8                    21.6
Supervision:
I                  Bank      1/79    0.7     1 A              0.7     02-02-79
II                 Bank     10/79    1.0     2 AE,A           2.0     10-26-79
III                Bank      5/80    0.4     2 AE,A           1.6     06-19-80
IV                 Bank     10/80    0.4     3 GE,AE,A        1.2     11-03-80
V                  Bank      5/81    0.4      3 GE,A,TE       1.2     06-18-81
VI                 Bank     12/81    0.3      3 TE,AE,A       0.9     01-29-82
VII                Bank      5/82    0.3      2 GE,A,T        0.9     06-09-82
VIII               Bank     10/82    0.6      3 GE,A,TE       1.8     12-08-82
IX                 Bank      2/83    0.6     3 GE,A,TE        1.8     03-15-83
X                  Bank      6/83    0.3      1 TE            0.3     07-11-83
xi                 Bank      8/84    0.3      1 TE            0.3     08-13-84
XII                Bank     10/84    0.6      1 A             1.2     11-05-85
XIII               Bank      2/85    0.2      1 A             0.2     03-05-85
Toal (SPN)                           6.1                     14.1
Completion
Mission          UNESCO    2/85    2.3      2 A,GE          4.6     05-03-85
D. Country Exchante Rates
Name of Currency                                     Yemeni Dinar (YD)
Exchange Rates
Appraisal year (1970)                                   US$1 - YD 0.345
Intervening years average                               US$1 = YD 0.345
Completion year (1985)                                  US$1 - YD 0.345
NOTE:
A - Architect
AE - Agricultural Educator
TE - Technical Educator
GE - General Educator
F - Facilities Planner



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'5 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 865-YDR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Second Education Project (Credit 865-YDR) in the amount of
US$4.0 million) was identified by a UNESCO mission in January, 1976, and
prepared by the Government with assistance from a Bank Group mission in
July/August, 1977. As the original project scope and cost were larger than
could be accommodated by the Government, a Bank Group appraisal mission in
January, 1978, scaled down the proposed project which was then estimated to
cost about US$4.4 million equivalent (Staff Appraisal Report No. 2097-YDR
dated November 10, 1978). Board approval was secured on December 14, 1978.
The Credit Agreement was signed on December 22, 1978 and the Credit became
effective on June 18, 1979. The project was expected to be completed by
July 31, 1981, and the Closing Date was June 30, 1982. Implementation
actually took three years longer than planted, and the Closing Date was
changed to December 31, 1984. The final project cost was about US$7.0
million equivalent (59% higher than appraisal estimate). Total
disbursements amounted to US$3.98 million and the balance of about
US$15,800 was cancelled on July 22, 1985 when the last disbursement was
made.
Obiectives
Conceived as the first phase of a proposed network of vocational
training centers, the project aimed at (paras. 2.12-2.13):
(a) meeting training needs for skilled and semi-skilled workers
in industry, agriculture and commerce;
(b) reducing regional inequalities in vocational training
opportunities;
(c) increasing the role of women in the economy; and
(d) assisting in the development of appropriate curricula and
preparirg teachers for the vocational training centers.



Implementation Experience
Three Government organizations shared responsibility for project
implementation: the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), created under the
First Education Project (Credit 494-YDR) and the Directorate of Technical
and Vocational Education in the Ministry of Education (MOE); and the
Ministry of Construction (paras. 3.05-3.06). Project implementation took
about six years Instead of the (overly optimistic) planned three years.
Initial implementation delay, due to a manpower shortage, was subsequently
compounded by a sharp increase in construction costs. By mid-1980, one
year after construction was to have started, the Government and the
Association agreed to a revision of the appraisal plans for civil works as
a means of reducing project cost. It was decided that two of the three
vocational training centers would be accommodated in two existing secondary
schools to be converted and expanded. But what might have been an
advantage in the revised plan was lost through further delay in calling for
tenders for conversion/extension of the existing facilities because
construction unit costs escalated to about 137% of what was eatimated at
appraisal. Civil works were again delayed, this time by massive floods in
1982 when the buildings intended for conversion were used as temporary
shelters for flood victims. Thus the conversion of the Al-Kod Industrial
Training Center started only in July 1982 and was completed 33 months
later, and work on the Agricultural Training Cent.er at Saber started in
November 1982 and was completed 25 months later.  The new Commercial
Training Center at Mukalla was constructed in 29 months as planned (paras.
3.01-3.04). Compared with other construction in PDRY, the quality of the
project buildings is good except for damage to some woodwork caused by
termites, the result of inadequate anti-termite treatment of building
foundations prior to construction (paras. 3.23-3.24). Furniture and
equipment for the project institutions are appropriate and of acceptable
quality (paras. 3.26-3.29). Total project cost was about US$7.0 million,
59% above the appraisal estimate of US$4.4 million (Annex 2-1).   In local
currency, total project cost was YD 2,406,000 or 582 more than the
appraisal estimate of YD 1,520,000 (Annex 2-2). All special covenants were
satisfactorily fulfilled.
Results
In May 1985, when the project completion report (PCR) was
prepared, the three vocationai training centers were at varying stages of
operntion. Only 311 of the appraisal enrollment targets had been achieved
apparently because of the low social prestige attached to vocational-
technical education. Other reasons includes (a) the Al-Kod Industrial
Training Center had planned the first student intake for its new premises
in September 1985; (b) the Saber Agricultural Training Center had moved to
its new premises only in January, 1985, after the start of the academic
year; (c) evening classes were not operating yet at the Mukalla Commercial
Training Center because of inadequate supply of electricity; and (d) farmer
training, which would have used the facilities at the Saber Agricultural



- vi -
Training Center, had been transferred to a different location (para.5.04-
5.05). The project has also not met its objective of achieving 38%
enrollment of females because of perceived poor employment opportunities
and socio-cultural barriers (para. 5.06). As there are shortages of all
types of technical personnel, and the Government assigns all graduates to
the public sector, there is presumably no unemployment among the graduates
of these project Institutions. The training of teachers for the vocational
training centers was expected to meet its target of 63 teachers trained
under bilateral technical assistance. The project has been specially
successful in developing appropriate curricula for the vocational training
institutions. The availability of boarding places in all the vocational
training centers to accommodate students from all parts of the country
would help reduce regional inequalities in vocational training
opportunities. Given time, the project has the potential for achieving all
Its objectives.
Sustainability
As the three project institutions are part of a larger network of
vocational training centers planned by the Government and are the main
source of trained middle-level skilled workers, they are being maintained
by the local government in each Governorate where they are located. If,
however, enrollment remains low, the sustainability of each institution
might depend on the cost-effectiveness of the output of trained workers, an
issue which would need reexamination after the institution has had a
reasonable period (say, five years) of operational experience.
Findings a-id Lessons
The project's experience suggests the following lessons:
(a) Preparations for civil works construction should be at an
advanced stage by credit/loan effectiveness to avoid
implementation delay which would almost always result in much
higher construction costs in a period of rapid price
inflation (paras. 3.02-3.04).
(b) Agreement at appraisal between the Borrower and the
Association on the provision of building spaLe, schedules of
accommodation, and other matters concerning civil works would
avoid the necessity of revisions which would delay
implementation and increase costs (paras. 3.13-3.15).
(c) Constructive participation of the various Government agencies
and the Association in decision-making during project
implementation is a crucial factor in ensuring successful
implementation (paras. 3.02, 3.10-3.12, 3.43).



- vii -
(d) To meet project objectives which involve rapid social change
in a traditional society (such as enrollment in vocational
education which has low prestige, or encouraging women to
take a more active part in the economy where men have
predominated) the project design should include programs for
publicizing the advantages of vocational skills and the
merits of having more women working in ir.dustry, agriculture
and commerce (5.04-5.08).



- viii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 865-YDR)
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Generation
1.       The quantitative development of the education system in the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen between independence in 1967 and appraisal in
1978 was remarkable. But although structural deficiencies of the system were
being addressed, deficiencies still remained in manpower training, education
quality and finance. The appraisal mission estimated the annual shortfall of
technicians by 1983 at about 740 and that in the clerical and skilled workers
category about 6,650. The mission appropriately considered these critical
shortages to be a serious impediment to economic development.
Obiectives.
2.       The Second Education Project (Credit 865-YDR) was conceived as the
first phase of a proposed network of skill training centers, and it is designed
to assist in meeting training needs for skilled and semi-skilled manpower in
industry, agriculture and commerce. The main objectives of the project are to
assist the Government in: (a) meeting training needs for skilled and semi-
skilled workers in the above three sectors; (b) reducing regional inequalities
in vocational training opportunities by providing boarding places for about 50
percent of the total student population; (c) increasing the role of females in
the economic life of the country by encouraging female participation in each of
the three vocational training programs; and (d) assist in developing
appropriate curricula and training teachers for the three types of training
centers. The project is scheduled to produce annually about 500 employable
graduates of a two year (grades 9-10) skill training program.
Project Scooe.
3.       The project originally included new construction, furniture and
equipmuent for 850 training places and 400 boazding places for three vocational
training institutions, one each in the industrial, agricultural and commercial
sectors. During implementation, project scope was changed to include one new
and the conversion of two centers. It also included technical assistance for
teacher training, financed from bilateral sources.
Project Management and Implementation.
4.       The Credit was signed on December 22, 1978. Six years later and after
one, 18 month extension of the original Cosing date (June 30, 1982), physical
aspects of the project had been substantially completed and the Credit was
closed on December 31, 1984. The six year implementation period compares well
with regional averages in implementation performance, although it substantially
exceeded appraisal estimates of approximately three years. The main factors
that accounted for the time overrun were limited design capacity in the
Ministry of Construction and major price increases in the cost of labor and
materials which necessitated scaling down of the project. Further delays also
occurred as a result of the 1982 floods in PDRY.



- ix -
5.       Prolect Implementation. The project unit, originally created under the
First Education Project (Credit 494-YDR), has performed well. Its
responsibilities include: (a) general coordination of the project; (b)
procurement of furniture and equipment; (c) monitoring of progress; (d) keeping
of project records; and (e) liaising with the Association. The Ministry of
Construction was responsible for the design and implementatiou of civil works.
Bilaterally provided technical assistance was efiiciently aAministered by the
Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education. Suitable curricula for the
three training programs have been developed and are being introduced. About
50 teachers have been trained, compared with appraisal estimates of 63. All
project institutions have the requisite textbooks and libraries.
6.       All three sites are a4equate in size and location, but less than
optimally planned or utilized. Construction areas are generally over 50 percent
in excess of appraisal estimates due to: (a) the original allowances made at
appraisal for walls and circulation were about 0l too low; (b) there were
planning difficulties associated with converting existing facilities; and (c)
the designers of the new facilities created unneccessarily large circulation
and recreation areas. But despite flaws, the designs are generally simple and
functional.
7.       In comparison with other construction in PDRY, such as general
secondary schools, the quality of the project buildings is acceptable, but
several minor deficiencies need attention. The only serious shortcoming is
caused by termite attacks on non-structural elements.
8.       Appropriate furniture and equipment lists were prepatqd by the
Ministry of Education, and procurement was timely and efficiently carried
out, mostly by international competitive bidding. The quality of the imported
furniture is excellent. Equipment is appropriate in terms of quality and
quantity, but not yet fully operational. Adequate initial supplies of
consumable materials are being provided for each ceuter.
9.       Maintenance problems are evident at two of the three project
institutions (paras 19v-l9vi below), but prospects are good that existing
deficiencies will be rectified.
10.      All covenants have been satisfactorily fulfilled.
Association Sup evision and Performance.
11.      The project concept and design were responsive to training needs of
the Borrower. Effective communications were maintained between the Government
and the Association, and critical problems were identified and solved in a
timely manner.



-x -
Proiect Cost and Financing.
12.      At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$ 4.4 million
equivalent, whereas actual costs are US$ 7.0 million, an increase of 58
percent. The principal reason was an increase in construction costs by 66S over
appraisal estimates despite an appropriate decision during implementation to
scal. the project down by substituting rehabilitated facilities for the
originally planned new facilities at two out of three project sites.
Construction cost increases were caused by a sharp general escalation of
construction prices during early implementation (321 in 1979) coupled with 50%
increases in gross building areas (para 6).
13.      Furniture costs increased by 43 percent over appraisal estimates and
equipment costs by 25 percent, mainly because of about 302 higher than
estimated price escalation rates for these items and minor changes in
equipment lists. Disbursements were closely related to expenditures.
Attainment of Pro lect Obiectives
14.      The project is a forerunner of a proposed network of 14 planned
vocational training centers. The project has the potential to met its stated
objectives, but enrollments and outputs remain low because of the reasons
stated below. At the time of the completion mission, civil works were with
minor exceptions complete. Actual capacity of project institutions is 18
percent in excess of the originally proposed capacity.
Enrollment
15.      One school is fully operational and the others operated in temporary
premises during 1984/85. To date, only 31 percent of appraisal enrollment
Largets have been achieved because : (a) the first intake to the new
f44ilities of the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-god will not
take place until September 1985t (b) The Vocational Agricultural Center at
Saber only moved to its new premises in January 1985; (c) the low social
prestige of vocational-technical education has discouraged better qualified
students from enrolling; (d) evening classes are not yet held at the
Comercial Vocational Training Canter at Mukalla because of limited
availability of electricity; and (e) farmer training bas been appropriately
transferred to an agricultural extension program on a different location. The
project has not met its objectives in terms of enrollment of females (21 of
compared with estimated 38%) because of perceived poor employment
opportunities and socio-cultural barriers (para 5.06). The Government is
contemplating measures to encourage enrolment, but further. avenues must be
sought to increase enrollment, particularly that of females. Dropout at the
only fully operational institution is low at 3 percent per annum.
Graduates
16.      The Ministry of Planning assigns graduates to employment in the
public sector. Specific plans for student placement are not known, but there
are shortages of all types of technical personel of the type produced by the
three centers.



- xi -
Teachers
17.      The outcome of the teacher training program both locally and through
bilateral agreements has been successful in that about 50 of the required 63
teachers have been trained and the remainder is undergoing training.
Teaching Programs/Curricula
18.      The project has been particulary successful in its attempts to
generate appropriate curricula for its training institutions. Recently
developed curricula are in use at the industrial and commercial training
centers and serious efforts are being made tc introduce new curricula to the
agricultural training institution. Appropriate consultations were held with
various education and research institutions as well as with user ministries and
potential employers about tba cantent of the new curricula. The result is a
good balance between theory anc. practical subjects.
19.      Recommendations
1.       Special attention needs to be given to the site supervision aspects of
projects in PDRY, which is %enerally a serious problem because of shortages of
staff and funds. However, site supervision has effectively ensured an
acceptable quality of construction work at two project institutions. There
are nonetheless a number of problems at the Vocational Agricultural Center at
Saber, where site supervision was less efficient (paras 3.17, 3.25).
ii.      Appraisal missions should carefully assess the abilities of design
agencies to deliver designs within provided time, cost and area limits when
proposing stringent construction programs (paras 3.13, 4.03).
iii.     The Government should wake more use of the recommendations of the
building study included in the First Education Project (Credit 494-YDR), in
particular in respect of design features appropriate for the climate (para
3.16).
iv.      Efforts by students and school authorities to prepare landscaping and
vegetation on site should be encouraged, and the Ministry of Construction
should develop specialized specifications for the establishment and maintenance
of such planting on new sites (para 3.18).
v.       Attention needs to be given to completing or remodelling minor
construction work and equipment installation on all three sites (paras 3.19,
3.20, 3.21, 3.22, 3.25, 3.28, 3.29, 3.30, 3.34).
vi.       The Ministry of Construction should give more attention to the
hazards of termite attacks, by ensuring that effective treatment of sites is
carried out, or alternatively by using designs that eschew the use of timber
Doors and windows on two project sites will by necessity have to be replaced
because of termite damage within the next couple of years (para 3.24).
Consideration should be given by the Association to finance replacement of
these window and door frames from the proceeds of the Third Education Project
(Credit 1222-YDR).



- xii -
vii.     The Project Unit should provide, by September, 1985, a one year's
supply of consumable materials from the project budget. There is some danger
that the recurrent budget may not suffice in the future, and this needs to be
monitored by the Ministry of Education. This is particularly important for
the IndustrIal Vocational Training Center at Al-Kod, because some courses
cannot otherwise be offered (para 3.31).
viii.    The Government's efforts to encourage enrollment in technical/
vocational education (including the establishment of evening classes) should
coutinue, but the focus of such activities should probably be on publicity and
information campaigns rather than provision of increased stipends to
students. At the local level, the education authorities should organize and
implement a publicity campaign to educate the public about the activities of
the training centers through organized parental visits, as well as visits by
the eighth grade classes. Increased effort must in particular be made to
educate the public about training opportunities for females (paras 5.05-5.07).
ix.      To facilitate implementation of the curriculum and to ensure practical
orientation of agricultural training, the Government should arrange for title
transfer of a Ministry of Agriculture farm site adjacent to the Agricultural
Vocational Training Center at Saber to the center. Although the physical
facilities for animal husbandry have been provided at this center, it has as
yet neither animals nor feed. Progress in rectifying these shortcomings should
be monitored by the Association. The prospects for their resolution are
considered good (para 5.13).
X.       The next scheduled education mission to PDRY (September 1985) will
review the status of the project institutions and discuss the above
recommendations with the Government.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 865-YDR)
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
1.01     The preparation of this Project Completion Report has been based
largely upon data collected by a mission to the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY) during the two first weeks of February, 1985 and data available in
the Bank Growr files in Washington D.C. The mission visited all three project
sites, observed classes, held discussions with the Director and some teachers
at the training centers in operation, and consulted with the Government
authorities at ministries connected with the Project, including Education,
Planning* Labour and Civil Service and Construction. The Project Director or
his Deputy accompanied the mission on all visits. The Director's contribution
to the work of the mission was invaluable in that he had collected data for
forms previously prepared by the Association, and his records were complete,
reliable and accessible.
1.02     Before going to PDRY, the mission leader made a one week study of the
relevant project files held by the World Bank Group in Washington D.C., and
consulted with project officers associated with the Project. The files include
supervision reports, progress reports, correspondence with the Borrower and
other documents which had been prepared during project generation and
implementation.
1.03     The mission reviewed the achievement  of project objectives and
targets (physical, financial and educational) against the planned or
expected schedules and achievements set out at the time of appraisal and
negotiations. However, a meaningful evaluation of the quality of the internal
efficiency and output of the project institutions was not feasible, because
only one institution has recently become fully operational.
CHAPTER II
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
2.01     At the time of appraisal, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
had a population of about 1.7 million with an estimated growth rate of 2.6
percent per annum. With GNP per capita at about US$ 280, the country was among
the least developed in the world. Economic development efforts were hindered by
two major problems: (i) limited availability of natural resources combined with
rugged topography and difficult climatic conditions; and (ii) a critical
shortage of skilled technical and managerial personnel. These problems were
exacerbated by an uneven population distribution, and emigration of workers to
nearby oil producing countries.



- 2 -
2.02     Despite these adverse conditions, the country had achieved a healthy
GNP growth rate of 8 percent per annum, mainly as a result of large scale
workers remittances, effecetive mobilization of public investment (which rose
from 7 percent of GDP in 1970 to over 23 percent in 1975) as well as a series
of structural and institutional reforms, which had increased the absorptive
capacity of the economy. Yet considerable potential for futher economic
development existed, particularly in agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing,
construction and transportation. However, successfull economic development in
these sectors depended to a major degree on the availability of the neccessary
technical manpower.
Sector Setting
2.03     As a result of a sound administrative structure and dedicated and
industrious staff, the quantitative development of the educational system
between independence in 1967 and appraisal in 1978 was remarkable. But
although the reform measures were appropriately directed towards rectifying the
structural weaknesses of the educational system and provided a promising
framework for its future development, deficiencies still remained, particularly
in relation to manpower training, education quality and education finance.
2.04     In the area of  anpower training, an annual shortfall by 1983 of 740
technicians and 6,650 clerical and skilled workers had been estimated at the
time of appraisal. These critical shortages were appropriately perceived by
the Government as serious impediments to economic development. Accordingly,
appropriate measures were developed in the Government's educational development
strategy to assist in meeting the shortfall. These measures included: (a)
assigning responsibilty for pre-service training to the Ministry of Education
and retraining and upgrading of skills to the Ministry of Labor and Civil
Service; (b) establishing a National Technical and Vocational Council,
responsible for formulating comprehensive training programs and coordinating
training activities in the country; and (c) establishing a new Directorate of
Technical and Vocational Education to act as the executive branch of the
Council.
2.05     In view of the limited expansion of technical and vocational education
after independence compared with the rapid expansion of general education, the
Gjovernment decided to accord top priority to the development of two year
vocational skill training centers (grades 9-10) for programs for industry,
agriculture and commerce. Fourteen such centers were to be established
with a combined annual output of about 2,700 graduates by 1985. The Second
Education Project was conceived in support of the Government's efforts to
develop such skilled and semi-skilled manpower.
Formulation of the Project
2.06     The project was formulated over a period of 22 months. The
Government's request for the project was originally made by the Minister of
Education during an IDA mission to Aden in November, 1975 and was reiterated at
the Bank/Fund Annual Meetings held in Manila, Philippines in October 1976.



-3-
2.07     In response to the Government's request, the Association advanced the
project from FY80 to FY79. Consequently a four-man reconnaisance mission went
to Aden in late February 1977 and concluded that the Government's educational
strategy was sound and consistent with the socio-economic needs of the
country. The mission proposed that the project focus on the Government's
priority of developing vocational training, beginning with nine vocational
training centers with 2,860 student places 1/. The Government proceeded with
the preparation of the project on this basis, and was assisted by a two-man
reconnaisance and preparation assistance mission from the Association in July,
1977.
2.08     The major issue at this stage was financial: total estimated cost of
the proposed nine centers was at that time about. US$ 12.5 million, including
contingencies. The Government anticipated difficulties in obtaining suitable
cofinancing for the project and decided to reduce the project to five centers
2/ in order to permit an early start of project. These centers were to have
about 1,600 student places and cost a total of about US$ 7.0 million.
2.09     In January 1978 a three-man appraisal mission assisted the Government
in completing project preparation and appraised the project. The mission
recommended that four centers 3/ with 1,400 student places and 600 boarding
places be established at a total estimated cost of about US$ 6.8 million.
Technical assistance in the form of fellowships was to be provided by the
Government through bilateral assistance.
2.10     The financial issues continued to stay with the project during its
subsequent processing. A Credit of only US$ 4.0 million was available, while
construction costs between 1976 and 1978 had escalated at an average annual
rate of 16 percent 4/. To compensate for the escalation, the Government and the
Association correctly decided to reduce project scope to three centers.
2.11     Negotiations were held August 15-17, 1978 in Washington DC., and the
Credit was signed on December 22, 1978. It was scheduled to become effective on
March 22, 1979, but because of delays in ratifying the Development Credit
Agreement and obtaining legal opinion thereon, the actual date of Credit
Effectiveness was June 22, 1979.
1/ Three industrial, two agricultural, two commercial, one  fishery and one
health.
2/ Three industrial, one agricultural and one commercial.
3/Two industrial, one agricultural and one
commercial.
4/Source: Analysis of unit cost data from IBRD Report "People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen, A Review of the Construction and Manufactoring Sectors,
October 30 1981".



-4-
Proiect Objectives
2.12     Cr'tical manpower shortages had appropriately been perceived by the
Government as one of the most serious obstacles to economic development, and
the project was a part of the Government's educational development strategy to
help overcome this impediment. It became the first phase of a proposed network
of fourteen vocational training centers (para 2.05), and was designed to assist
in meeting needs for the training of skilled and semi-skilled manpower in
industry, agriculture and commerce by producing annually about 500 employable
graduates.
2.13      The project also responded to the Government's objective of balanced
regional development by providing boarding places for 50 percent of the total
student population to cater for the needs of studenta from rural areas. In
response to the Government's policy of increasing the role of women in the
economic life of the country, the project provided for 15, 20 and 75 percent
participation of female students in the industrial, agricultural and commercial
training programs, respectively.
Project Description
2.14     The project as negotiated consisted of:
(a)    Construction, equipment and furniture for:
Estimated
--Capacity-              Annual
Institutions          Grades      Academic    Boarding    Output
VocationalTraining
Centers :
(a)      Industrial           9-10 and    250          100          115
Third Governorate   evening
classes                                65
(b)      Agricultural         9-10 and    250          150          110
Second Governorate  ungraded       50                      200
(c)      Commercial           9-10 and    300          150          135
Fifth Governorate   evening
classes                                75
Total                            850          400          700
(b) Technical Assistance:
About 36 man-months of bilaterally financed fellowship training abroad
for the directors of the industrial and agricultural centers and four selected
teachers (six man-months each).



- 5 -
CHAPTER III
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
3.01     The Credit wes signed on December 22, 1978. Six years later and after
one, 18 months extension of the original Cosing date (June 30, 1982), physical
aspects of the project had been substantially completed and the Credit was
closed on December 31, 1984. The six year implementation period compares well
with regional averages in implementation performance (about 10 years),
although it substantially exceeded the optimistic appraisal estimates of
approximately three years. Chart 1. shows a comparison between planned and
actual implementation schedules and disbursement profiles.
3.02     Delay Factors. Several, mutually reinforcing factors accounted for the
time overrun when compared with appraisal estimates. Manpower deficiencies had
begun to emerge in certain key sectors, including construction, as a result of
a rapid intake into the government sector and emigration 1/. As a result, the
Ministry of Coustruction required about six months in excess of estimates to
prepare the original tender documents for the project. In addition to causing
design and construction delays, the msnpaxw; shortages also had a major effect
on construction costs. During 1979 alone, construction unit costs for non-
residential buildings increased by an average of 32 percent because of
accelerated growth of the constructiu sac.to= and inflationary consequences for
the entire economy 2/. These unit costs increases, coupled with approximately
60 percent increases in construction areas between appraisal provisions and
actual designs (para 3.13), resultad in tenders (December 1979) that were 100
percent above appraisal estimates iclu&din contingencies. At final account
these costs had risen to 120 percent over appraisal estimates.
3.03     A further six months delay took place while decisions were being made
about how to proceed in view of the cost overruns. By mid 1980, one year after
the initially scheduled start of construction, the Assocation and the
Government agreed to depart from the originally appraised proposal to construct
new facilities for all project items. Existing secondary school facilities were
provided, and converted and expanded for the use of the Vocational Industrial
Center at Al-Kod and the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber, while the
Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla was constructed in 29 months
as per the original designs.
3.04     In hindsight it becomes apparent that much of the advantage of
deciding to adapt existing facilities rather than continue with the original
designs was lost. Tenders for the extensions/conversions were not received
until December 1981, two years after calling the original tenders and about
three years after appraisal estimates. By this time, construction unit costs
I/Source: IBRD Report "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, A review of
Economic and Social Development, March 1979".
2/Source: Review of unit cost data from IBRD Report
"People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, A review of the Construction and
Manufactoring Sectors, October i0 1981".



had escalated to YD 184/m2 - an increase of 137 percent over the average
construction costs for non-residential buildings at the time of negctiations in
1978. lurther delays occurred as a result of the 1982 floods, when the
buildings intended for conversion were impounded for use as temporary shelters
for flood victims. Conversion of the Vocational Industrial Training Center at
Al-Kod started in July 1982 and was completed in 33 months. The Vocational
Agricultural Center at Saber had to be retendered because the Association found
the Government's proposal to reject all tenders and award the contract to a
Government Corporation that had not participated in the bidding process
inconsistent with its procurement guidelines. Work began on site in November
1982 and was completed in 25 months.
Project Management and Borrower Performance
3.05     Three Government organizations were the main participants in project
management, namely the Project Unit of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry
of Construction and the Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education of
the Ministry of Education.
3.06      Project Unit. The project unit was originally created under the
FirstEducation Project (Credit 494-YDR) and has been responsible for
implementing three subsequent education projects. Responsibilities of the
project unit include: (a) general coordination of all entities involved in the
project; (b) procurement of furniture and equipment; (c) monitoring of
progress; (d) keeping of project records; and (e) liaising with the
Association. The project unit has performed well, not only in the management
of events under its direct control, but also in its handling of problems.
outside its direct control. Procurement of equipment and furniture was carried
out efficiently, its records are commendably complete, and the unit has
established an excellent liasion with the Association.
3.07     Ministry of Construction. A major participant in project management
was the Ministry of Construction. Because of excessive workloads and manpower
shortages (para 3.02), this ministry experienced severe difficulties in the
timely carrying out its assigned tasks, namely the preparation of design,
preparation of tender documents, tendering, evaluation and supervision of
construction. The designs were excessively spacious and the quality of tender
documents for the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod and at the
Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber was less than satisfactory, including
omissions of major construction items from the tender documents. Another cause
of construction period overruns was clearly beyond the control of project
managers, namely the neccessity to refurbish buildings that had been used for
flood victims after the cessation of the occupation.
3.08     Ministrv of Education. Technical assistance for the project was
efficiently administered by the Directorate of Technical and Vocational
Education of the Ministry of Education.
Inplementation of Software.
3.09     Technical Assistance.   The Government provided training for the
directors and four instructors of the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber,
and the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod through a bilateral
agreement with East Germany. Table 3.1 shows the fellowships actually
provided compared with appraisal estimates.



- 7 -
Table 3.1. Technical Assistance (Fellowships)
Project                   Appraisal Estimate              Actual Provided
Item
Number    Duration   Total    Number   Duration   Total
Months -                -  Months
Al Kod Industrial
Training Center.
-   Direc-or         1          6         6          1         6          6
Saber Agricultural
Training Center
-   Director          1         6         6          1         6          6
-   Farm Machinery   2          6         12         -         -          -
-   Food Processing  2          6         12         2         30         60
Total            6                    36         4                    72
The successful outcome of this program is discussed in paragraph 5.09
3.10     Curriculum DeveloRment.  The Education Research Center of the Ministry
of Education prepared curricula for the general subjects, whereas the
curriculum for the industrial, agricultural and commercial training programs
were each developed by Technical Education Committees, commissioned by the
Minister of Education, and assisted by professionals in each category. These
professionals were selected from staff of the Nasser College of Agriculture,
the Malla Technical Institute and the College of Ecotomics, respectively.
Representatives from the Ministry of Education Headquarters, teachers, business
and industry also participated in their respective areas of competence. The
curriculum was approved in 1979 by the Second Education Congress. Comments and
suggestions on the draft syllabi by user ministries and potential employers
were evaluated and incorporated as appropriate into the final curriculum design
prior to finalization and approval by the Advisory Council of the Ministry of
Education. The Technical Education Committees selected appropriate books and
reference materials and also prepared examination policies and regulations for
all vocational programs. This achievement is expected to ensure consistency of
content and quality in each program specialization and simplify future
development of additional training centers. The outcome of the curriculum
development program is discussed in paragraphs 5.10-5.14.
3.11     Textbooks and Libraries. Appropriate textbooks, library books and
reference materials were selected from abroad and modified by each curriculum
conmittee to suit the Yemeni situation. Accordingly, the Industrial and
Commercial Training Centers have a set of textbooks similar to those used in
Egypt and Syria, respectively. English language books were imported from the
United Kingdom and India, and Arabic ones from Egypt and Syria. Eighty
reference books were imported for the Vocational Agricultural Center at
Saber.
3.12     Considerable attention is being paid to the development of libraries.
Each vocational training center has a library with seating for about 50
students and equipped with about 1,000 new books. Although the library of the
Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber has not yet been organized and there is



- 8 -
no trained librarian at any of the vocational training centers, the librarian
at the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla has worked for three
years under the guidance of a professional librarian and serves full time.
There are also plans to send staff members from the other two institutions to
attend elementary training courses at the libraries of the Nasser College of
Agriculture and the Aden University.
Phrsical Planning and Design
3.13     Space Provisions.  The building areas for the new buildings are about
50 percent in excess of appraisal estimates. At the Commercial Vocational
Training Center at Mukalla (the only institution with entirely new
construction), the gross academic areas (8.6 m2 / place) are 40 percent in
excess of appraisal estimates (6.1 m2) and the boarding areas (15.0 m2 /
place) are 67 percent bigher than appraisal estimates (8.7 m2 /
place). Similarly at the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod, the
new boarding facilities are 64 percent in excess of appraisal estimates. This
was in part due to excessively stringent appraisal estimates for walls and
circulation (15-20X) but mainly because the designers of the facilities
created unnecessarily large circulation and recreation areas. At the converted
facilities, there were also planning limitations associated with the existing
structural elements. (Annex 2-4).
3.14     The conversion of the secondary school at Saber into a Vocational
Agricultural Center provided over 602 more usable academic areas than those
envisaged at nppraisal because of the availability of existing space at the
converted secondary school. Accordingly, the capacity of this institution is
well in excess of appraisal estimates (para 5.02). Useable areas at the other
two centers are similar to the appraised ones. Only at the Vocational
Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod did it prove difficult to accommodate the
original schedule of accommodation and a fitting workshop had to be omitted.
The boarding areas included during appraisal had provided recreation areas and
other amenities sparingly. Expansion of these areas during the design process
resulted in a 341 exceess over the appraisal program. A detailed comparison of
originally proposed and actually provided areas is shown in Annex 1-1.
3.15     Building designs.  The schematic designs, approved by the Association,
were in broad terms simple and functional, but excessive in terms of
circulation areas (para 3.13) and the buildings were spaced unnecessarily far
apart, which contributed to cost increases and created u=managable external
spaces. The building plans are based on single loaded corridors in single
storey buildings with the exception of the academic block at the Vocational
Agricultural Center at Saber and the classrooms at the Coumercial Vocational
Training Center at Mukalla where two storey blocks have been used.
3.16     During subsequent construction drawing and supervision stages, the
Ministry of Construction sacrificed some construction quality and gave
insufficient attention to detail in attempts to economize oa construction
costs. Thus in several important respects, the designs differ from the
recommendations of the building study, financed under the First Education
Project (Cr.494-YDR). The study encourages the use of traditional construction
in stone, dressed externally and rendered internally and resulting in a 16"
thick external wall. However, while the unshaded 8" blockwork used for many
buildings is less costly, but gives a much lower thermal comfort. Similarly,
roofs are uninsulated reinforced concrete and windows lack sun-shading devices
or sh.utters. Building orientation is generally correct although large areas of
unprotected glass face west in the recreation room at the Vocational Training
Center at Mukalla.



- 9-
Implementation of Civil Works.
3.17     Construction Contracts.  The conversion contracts for the Vocational
Agricultural Center at Saber and the Vocational Industrial Training Center at
Al-Kod were carried out by local public building corporations, while the
Comuercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla was constructed by a joint
venture of two private contractors. Effective site supervision has ensured a
generally acceptable quality of work at the Vocational Industrial Training
Center at Al-Kod and the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla,
whereas the quality of work at the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber is
low. Details of implementation of the civil works contracts are given in Annex
1-2.
3.18     Sites. All three sites are adequate in terms of size, and location.
Although provisions were made in the construction contracts for some planting,
these were not implemented because of the climatic and terrain difficulties. A
laudable effort which should be encouraged is underway at the Vocational
Agricultural Center at Saber, where the students are developing a garden in
their hostel courtyard.
3.19     Site Development.   Site works are still incomplete, but arrangements
have been made to ensure that the work will be done. Access and service roads
are still incomplete at the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber and at the
Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod. The boarding blocks at all
three sites and the kitchen and dining block at the Vocational Agricultural
Center at Saber lack service roads.
3.20     Sewage disposal is by septic tanks and soakaways. At the Vocational
Agricultural Center at Saber, the old septic tanks and drainage runs of the
converted buildings are dilapidated and require thorough maintenance and
repairs before they can be used. The PIU is entering into an agreement with
the Ministry of Construction to ensure that this takes place.
3.21     At the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla the permanent
water supply is scheduled to be installed shortly by the Water Authority of
Fouah. In the meantime, the institution uses the building contractor's
temporary supply.
3.22     Electrical mains were being connected at the time of the completion
mission, except at the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla, where
a generator, capable of providing power for the hostels and limited amount of
power for the classrooms is still temporarily in use.
3.23     Construction Quality. All structural elements of project buildings are
well constructed, although thermal movements in external hollow block walls
have produced some unsightly cracks.
3.24     In comparison with other construction in PDRY, the quality of the
project buildings is good. The only serious defect of the new work is caused by
the failure of the anti-termite treatment of the ground prior to construction.
Door frames have been seriously damaged at the Commercial Vocational Training
Center at Mukalla and at the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod
where timber door frames were used instead of aluminium. Replacement of these
frames will become necessary within the next couple of years.



- 10 -
3.25     Of the two project items that were based on conversions of existing
facilities, the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber is the less
satisfactory because of inadequate site supervision. Rehabilitation of the 1978
secondary school buildings at Saber was difficult also because of the poor
standard of the original construction; plumbing is of poor quality and there is
a shortage of electrical power outlets in classrooms and laboratories.
Furniture and Equisment
3.26     Furniture and equipment lists, acceptable to the Association, were
prepared by the Ministry of Education with assistance from staff of the Nasser
College of Agriculture, the Malla Technical Institute and the College of
Economics.
3.27     erocurement of about 96 percent of all project equipment and furniture
was efficiently carried out by international competitive bidding. The remaining
4 percent (vehicles) was procured on the basis of three price quotations from
suppliers providing service in PDRY.
3.28     The quality of the imported, steel framed, mobile furniture is very
good and appropriately sturdy. Quality of the built-in furniture is acceptable
except at the Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber, where doors are poorly
fitted and worktop tiling requires replacement.
3.29     Equipment quality and quantity are appropriate, but the equipment was
not fully operational at the time of the completion mission. In the Vocational
Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod, the machinery had not been permanently
connected and allowance will have to be made for commissioning and
familiarization before classes start in September 1985. Evacuation ducts for
exhaust gases are missing from the mobile engine rigs in the automotive
workshop.
3.30     All three vocational training centers would benefit from the
installation of blackout curtains in selected rooms to facilitate the use of
visual aids equipment.
Consumable Materials
3.31     Steps are being taken by the Project Unit to ensure that a one year's
supply of consumable materials is provided from project funds. After the first
year of operations, the supply of consumable materials will become the
responsibility of the Ministry of Education which must enaure adequate
provision in its recurrent budget.
Maintenance.
3.32     Responsibility for maintenance of school facilities rests with the
local Government in each Governorate where the institution is located.
3.33     The Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla has been
operating since January 1983 and appears clean and well maintained. Termite
attacks at this institute will however prove an itcreasing maintenance problem
and replacement will soon become a necessity.



- 11 -
3.34     The Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber requires urgent
maintenance to plumbing, drainage and fittings as well as making good of
defective finishes under the building contract.
3.35     The Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod does not suffer
from maintenance problems.
Special Covenants.
3.36     All special covenants under this project have been satisfactorily
fulfilled. A covenanted tracer system has been developed, but not fully
implemented because of construction delays. The Ministry of Education is taking
action to ensure that benefits will be realized from the tracer system. The
following paragraphs discuss fullfJllment of all project specific covenants.
3.37     Section 3.02(a) of the Credit Agreement - Coordination of Training.
Under this covenant the Borrower was required to ensure that the National
Technical and Vocational Council continue to function as a coordinating agency
among the various ministries and public corporations involved in vocational
training. The Council has carried out this function satisfactorily.
Section 3.02(b) of the Credit Agreement - Curricula. Under this
covenant, the Borrower was required to consult with local and other
appropriate interest groups about continued relevance of curricula. As
dicussed in detail in paragraph 3.10, this requirement has been fully complied
with.
3.39      Section 3.02(c) of the Credit Agreement - Tracer System.  Under this
covenant, which is being satisfactorily implemented, the Borrower was
required to establish by December 31, 1980 an evaluation system, including a
tracer system for analysis of job placement and performance. Such a system was
designed and developed on time by the Directorate of Vocational and Technical
Education of the Ministry of Education and reviewed by school administrators
before final approval by the Advisory Council of the Ministry of Education.
Implementation of the system has, however been delayed because of delays in
physical implementation of the project. Satisfactory tracer forms for
employers and employees were issued to the schools in February 1984 along with
procedures for implementation and vocational education guidance regulations.
After the first six months of employment (starting around January 1986) the
graduates are expected to fill the forms and again at the end of the first
year of employment.
3.39     Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement - Fellowships. The Borrower was
required to arrange for overseas training of center directors and other staff
in adequate numbers under this covenant. A satisfactory arrangement for such a
bilateral technical assistance was also a condition of the Credit's
presentation to the Board. This training program was carried out satisfactorily
as shown in paragraph 3.09.
3.40     Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement - Teachers.  The Borrower was
required to provide suitably qualified teachers in adequate numbers and on a
full time basis for each vocational training center. This covenant has been
fully met as futher discussed in paragraph 5.09.



- 12 -
Association Sugervision and Performance.
3.41     The project concept and design wero responsive to the need to provide
training facilities for the industrial, agricultural and comeurcial sectors of
the ecoiomy. Project objectives were clearly defined (para 2.12) with the
proper emphasis on targets to be achieved, including reductions in regional
disparities and increasing the participation of women. The three year
implementation schedule, adopted by the appraisal mission wan, however, unduly
optimistic (para 3.02).
3.42     Communications between the Government and the Association were
generally good throughout the project period and critical problems were solved
efficiently. The large difference between the appraised and actual construction
programs (para 3.13) points however to a lack of clear communications on that
pOint.
3.43     When external factors threatened to derail the project (i.e. runaway
inflation in the construction sector - para 3.02), the Association adopted a
flexible attitude in its attempts to assist the Government in meeting the basic
objectives of the project by approving: (a) the conversion of the two existing
secondary schools into industrial and agricultural vocational training centers
in lieu of the originally planned two new vocational training centers in the
Credit Agreement; (b) the use of local competitive bidding procedures
(including the use of Arabic in bidding documents) for the conversion of the
vocational training centers in order to expedite the implementation of civil
works; and (c) an appropriate 18 month extension to the Closing Date and
reallocations of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.44     Supervision reports were informative, problem areas were id6ntified
and warning signals were sounded in time. Appropriate advice was given at
critical times, and recoamendations were made about the composition and timing
of future missions with a view to help solve identified problems. Although
four project officers were responsible for the project during its life-span,
the overlap in transition provided the necessary continuity.
3.45     Sup6rviaion missions were timely with average intervals between
missions about sixc months. The average span of these missions, including time
spent on other activities was about ten days. The ten missions by an architect
to: (a) review the initial design work of the Ministry of Construction; (b)
recommend action to counteract the effect of runaway construction prices (para
3.02); (c) supervise the redesign proess (para 3.03); (d) review contract
awards; and (e) supervise other implementation aspects of the project, was
justified by the complexity of these implementation problems. Three other
specialists participated in about five missions devoting about equal attention
to the three training programs.



- 13 -
Chapter IV
Prolect Cost and Financing.
Capital Costs
4.01     Overview. At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$ 4.4
miilion equivalent, whereas actual costs are US$ 7.0 million, an increase of 58
percent. Table 4.1 sumarizes the estimated and actual project costs by
category of expenditure. A detailed comparison of estimated vs actual capital
expenditures by category and by project item is given in Annex 2-1 (US$) and
Annex 2-2 (Yemeni Dinars).
Table 4.1
Comparison of Estimated and Actual Costs by
Category of Expenditure- including Contingencies.
Appraisal Estimates          Actual          Difference (S)
Between Actual
us$ M.  S of total      US$ M.  %of total   and Estimates
-   - - -                        - 
Construction and
Site Development    3.143        71.4        5.217       74.8      + 66
Furniture           0.328         7.4        0.468        6.7      + 43
Equipment            0.760       17.2        0.948      13.6       + 25
Professional
Services and Local
PIl Costs           0.117         2.7        0.292        4.2     + 150
Technical
Assistance           0.057        1.3        0.050        0.7      - 12
4.405      100.0        6.975      100.0      + 58
4.02     Civil Works. The principal reasons for the increase in project costs
were: (a) runaway cost escalation-in civil works between appraisal and tenders
in 1979 and later, caused by manpower shortages and accelerated growth of the
construction sector (3.02); and (b) large construction area increases over
appraisal provisions, caused by overly stringent appraisal provisions and
unneccesarily generous designs (para 3.13). Civil works tenders received in
December 1979 totalled US$6.93 million 1/, an increase of 120
percent over appraisal estimates including contingencies.
l/ The final account for the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla
has been used to determine construction costs because the tender documents
inadvertently omitted one boarding block, subsequently added back to the
contract.



- 14 -
4.03     The base unit costs used by the appraisal mission (US$ 227/m2 at
Mukalla) were in line with the then prevailing construction costs, and the
local inflation factor, 14.5 percent per annum was in line with the country
inflation rate at the time. However the appraisal was unduly optimistic in two
respects: (a) the originally scheduled implementation period of three years was
optimistic and total price contingencies were consequently low; and (b) the
provisions for walls and circulation were conservative at 15-20Z, an average
figure of 25-301 would have been more realistic.
4.04      The high tender costs were reduced to an actual construction cost of
US$ 5.22 million by foregoing entirely new facilities for the agricultural and
industrial centers and resorting instead to the conversion of existing
secondary school facilities. At final account, the unit cost of the Commercial
Vocational Training Center at Mukalla, built as originally designed, was
US$4441m2, an increase of 96 percent over appraisal estimates. Annex 2-3 shows
comparisons of costs per m2 for each center. Annex 2-4 compares estimated and
actual areas and cost per place.
4.05     Furniture. Furniture costs exceeded appraisal estimates (including
contingencies) by 43 percent as a result of the general sharp increase in the
prices of imported goods during project implementation that exceeded appraisai
estimates by about 30 percent, and minor changes in quantities.
4.06       Equipment. Equipment costs were over-estimated at appraisal, except
for costs for machine tools for the Vocational Industrial Training Center at
Al-Kod, which had been underestimated. The net result was an overall 25 percent
increase in equipment cost. Annex 2-5 compares the estimated and actual cost of
furniture and equipment per student place.
Disbursements
4.07      Disbursements lagged about 36 months behind appraisal estimates due
to delays in implementation, but otherwise there were no problems associated
with disbursements.
4.08      When it became evident that total project cost exceeded appraisal
estimates by a large margin (para 3.02, 4.02), the Government had to shoulder
the cost overrun. To ensure continued financing from the proceeds of the credit
throughout the project period, the proportion of IDA financing of civil works
was accordingly reduced from 89 percent to 45 percent in August 1981. To
ensure full disbursement of the credit by June 30, 1985, this proportion was
raised to 100 percent after the final Closing date, December 31, 1984,
resulting in an average IDA financing of 50 percent. The undisbursed balance of
the Credit is being used to finance civil works contracts that were fully
committed by the Closing date. Disbursements are scheduled for completion by
June 30, 1985. A comparison of actual withdrawals with appraisal estimates by
year is shown in Annex 2-6, and a comparison of actual and estimated
disbursement profiles is made in Chart 1.



15 -
4.09     Table 4.2 below shows the actual totaJl disbursements from the
credit by category of expenditure.
Table 4.2
Comparison of Original Allocation and Actual Disbursements
from the Credit by Category and Expenditures
Percentage  Estimated         Percentage
Type of         Original      2        of Expndt.  Disburse  X        of Expendi-
Expenditure     Allocation   of        to be        ments     of      tures
US$ Million  Total    Financed    US$ Mill  Total  Financed.
Civil Works     2.68          67       89%          2.62      65      50
Equipment &
Furniture      1.00          25       85/100%      1.38      35      98
Unallocated     0.32           8         -              -
4.00        100                    4.00 I/  100
1/  US$ 3.56 million had been disbursed as of April 26, 1985.  The balance of
the Credit is fully committed and is expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1985.
4.10     Due to delay in implementation, the original Closing Date of June 30,
1982 was postponed to 31 December 1984. The Credit Account will be closed by
June 30, 1985, at which time project cost and disbursements will be updated.
CHAPTER V
INITIAL PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOMES
Attainment of Project Obiectives
5.01      Oblectives. The project constituted a first phase in a proposed
network of 14 vocational training centers, planned by the Ministry of
Education. It was designed to assist in: (i) meeting training needs in
industry, agriculture and commerce, by providing a vocational training center
in each of the above sectors; (ii) reducing regional inequalities in vocational
training opportunities by providing boarding places for about 50 percent of the
total student places; and (iii) increasing the role of women in the economic
life of the country by providing for female participation in each vocational
training program ranging from 15-75 percent of enrollments of the various
programs (38% average). In addition to these explicitly stated objectives,
the project was also designed to assist in developing appropriate curricula
and to train teachers for the three types of vocational training centers.



- 16 -
5.02     Achievements. The project has the potential to meet its stated
objectives* At the time of the completion mission, civil works had been
completed at all three vocational training centers, with the exception
of some external works still in progress. Quality of construction and finishes
is acceptable except with regard to termite protection and all facilities have
been built in accordance with the agreed designs. The quality of furniture and
equipment is acceptable. A comparison of the originally proposed and actual
capacity of project institutions (Table 5.1) shows that the two are identical
at two insitutions, whereas the capacity of the Vocational Agricultural Center
at Saber is about 60 percent in excess of appraisal estimates because of
availability of space in the converted secondary school (para 3.14).
Table 5.1, Capacity of Project Institutes
Project              Proposed at Appraisal   Actual Capacity (1985)
Institutions         Academic     Boarding   Academic    Boarding
1. Al-Kod
Industrial
Trng Center.       250          100          250          100
2. Saber Agri-
cultural Trng.    250           150          400          150
Center.             50 1/                     50 1/
-3. Mukalla
Commercial
Trng. Center       300          150          300          150
Total              850          400        1,000         400
1/ Farmer Training Places
5.03    Regional inequalities have been reduced by providing boarding places to
students coming from all parts of the Governorates in which the vocational
training centers are located. In the case of the Commercial Vocational
Training Center at Mukalla, recruitment of students is conducted on a country-
wide basis. Annex 3-1 shows the origin of students enrolled at the various
vocational training centers. The 38 students at the Vocational Agricultural
Cenzer at Saber are all boarders, and likewise are 141 of the 166 at the the
Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla. Eighty of the 90 students
assigned to the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod are also
boarders.



- 17 -
Enrollment and OutDuts
5.04     Enrollment.  One school is fully operational and the other two
operated in temporary premises during 1985. To date, only 31 percent of
enrollment targets estimated at appraisal have been achieved because of
reasons enumerated below. Table 5.2 compares appraisal estimates with actual
enrollments  for 1984/85. Further details are shown in Annex 3-2 .
Table 5.2, Comparison of Estimated and Actual Enrollmants
Appraisal        Actual
Estimate for         for
Inslitutions          1981/82          1984/85
Commercial VTC            475 1/          166
Agricultural VTC          450              150 2/
Industrial VTC            380              90 /
1,305             406
.J Including 175 evening class students
2/ including 112 farmers that were trained at Giar and 90 students that have
been assigned to the Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod
3/ Assigned for March 1985.
5.05     Several reasons account for current under-utilization of project
facilities and full capacity utilization is not expected until 1987. The
Vocational Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod has not yet opened in its new
facilities, but an enrollment of 150 can be expected in September 1985. The
Vocational Agricultural Center at Saber operated temporarily in a former
secondary school and only moved to its new premises in January 1985. The
Ministry of Planning had assigned only a handful of students to the former
premises. Farmer training (50 places), originally planned to be conducted at
Saber, has been appropriately transferred to the agricultural extension
program at Giar, supported under the Fourth Education Project (SF19-YDR). Lack
of transportation or alternative boarding arrangements for day students at the
Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla is reportedly the prime reason
for current low enrollments at that institute. Prospects .for improvement in
this respect are good when the nearby new township of Fouah becomes fully
populated within the next two years. Evening classes have also not yet been
held at Mukalla because of limited availability of electricity (para 3.22).
The low social prestige accorded to vocational-technical education in terms of
future employment prospects compared with those of general education is
claimed by the authorities to have discouraged better qualified students from
enrolling. The Government is taking steps to increase enrollments, including
payment of stipends to students, but further publicity and information
activities should be introduced to educate the public about activities of the
centers.



- 18 -
5.06      The project has not met its objectives in terms of earollwent of
females, which is only about 4 percent at the Commercial Vocational Training
Center at Mukalla and zero at the other two institutions.  This may be
compared with appraisal estimates of 382 (75, 20 and 15 percent for the
commercial, agricultural and industrial training centers, respectively).
Several reasons account for this shortfall: despite the Government's objective
to increase the role of women in the economy, and the necessity to do so in
view of the ongoing large scale migration of men, reluctance apparently exists
among middle level managers to recruit females for the agricultural and
industrial fields, for which training facilities are supported under this
project.
5.07      At the time of appraisal many females were enrolled at the Nasser
College of Agriculture. However, female graduates in agriculture tend to work
only in ministry offices in Aden because of socio-cultural resistance to their
employment elsewhere. Family pressure encourages those interested in
technical fields to enter "clean"specializations such as radio, television,
X-Ray technology and other related areas. Other reasons given for low female
enrollment are: (i) early marriage of females; and (ii) parental objections to
co-education in geographic areas ouside of Aden (for example, 21 girls listed
the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla as their first choice for
further education, and the Ministry of Planning assigned 26 places for girls,
but only 4 enrolled).
5.08     Graduates. Only the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla
has had an output of students. The training center opened in the middle of a
school year, January 1983, with a limited intake of 102 students in accountancy
(compared with a full complement of 150) and operated during the vacation
period in order to complete the academic year in August 1983. The Center began
its second year of operation on the regular school calendar in September 1983,
and 90 students graduated in June 1984. Dropout at this school has decreased
annually from 12 percent in 1983 to current 3 percent. The first graduates of
the agricultural training institute are expected in 1986 and those of the
industrial training institute in 1987. Annex 3-3 shows details of appraisal
estimates of outputs compared with actuals.
Teachers
5.09     The outcome of the teacher training program both locally and through
bilateral agreements (para 3.09) has been successful in that the centers now
have sufficient numbers of fully qualified and trained teachers. About 50
teachers have been trained (locally and abroad), compared with appraisal
estimates of 63. The balance is being provided by expatriate teachers. LI To
provide the necessary teachers for the project, special two-year post
secondary instructor training programs were established at the Nasser College
of Agriculture and the Malla Technical Institute for agricultural and
industrial instructors, respectively. About 30 instructors subsequently
1/Three teachers, recent graduates from the Vocational Agricultural Center at
Saber have not had professional pedagogical training, but are expected to
attend such classes later.



- 19 -
attended the Nigher College of Education for pedagogical training, two days
per week for one year. Four specialized teachers were also trained in the
German Democratic Republic under a bilateral agreement. Teachers who had
completed their training prior to physical completion of the vocational
training centers were temporarily assigned other teaching and professional
responsibilities, such as assisting in curriculum development. Teachers for
the Commercial Vocational Training Center at Mukalla were trained at the
College of Economics of the University of Aden. About 12 qualified and
experienced expatriate teachers (202 of total) were recruited to fill posts
that could not be filled by local recruitment. Details of the teacher training
program are shown in Annex 3-4).
Teaching Programs/Curricula
5.10     The project has been particulary successful in its attempts to
generate appropriate curricula for the three types of training institutions.
Appropriate consultations were held with various education and research
institutions in ,:he country (para 3.10) and consultations were held with both
user minintries and potential employers about the suitability and
appropriateness of syllabi to be incorporated in the curricula. The following
paragraphs discuss in detail these project achievements.
5.11     The Commercial Training Center at-Mukalla.  The curriculum proposed at
appraisal allocated about 33 percent of the time to general subjects and 66
percent to technical theory and practice. This distribution is appropriate and
provides for realistic job preparation. However, the technical curriculum
committee of the Borrower made some modifications in the allocation of time and
changed a few subjects in view of emerging needs. By and large, the curriculum
remained within the originally allocated time distribution, as summarized in
Table 5.3 below and shown in detail in Annex 3-4.
Table 5.3 Comercial curriculum distribution.
Periods Per Week
First Year               Second Year
Appraisal    Actual        Appraisal    Actual
A. Accounting Section
General Subjects               12           15            12           10
Special Subjects               24           21            26           26
Total                        36           36            38           36
B. Secretarial Section
General Subjects               13           14            14            9
Special Subjects               23           22            24           27
Total                        36           36            38           36
-_    -                                 _-                              



- 20 -
5.12     The Industrial Training Center at Al-Kod.  At the time of appraisal
the curriculum of this Center was designed to cater to the agriculturally
oriented third Governorate and its rapidly developing construction and
transportation needs, and the distribution of periods was adequate for this
type and level of instruction. The Government's technical curriculum committee
did not make any changes which would significantly affect the program, but some
internal shifting of courses and changing of titles, as appropriate, were made.
This is summarized below in T.able 5.4 and shown in detail in Annex 3-6.
Table 5.4 Summary of Industrial Training Curriculum
Periods per Week   -         -      Percentage
First Year      Second Year      First Year       Second Year
Subjects   Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual
General        7        12        6        10      17.5    30.0   14.0      24.0
Technical     33        28       36        32      87.5    70.0   86.0      76.0
Total       40        40       42        42     100.0   100.0  100.0    100.0
Technical
Theory      13         8       15        12      39.0    29.0   42.0      38.0
Practical   20        20       21       20       61.0    71.0   58.0      62.0
Total       33        28       36        32     100.0   100.0  100.0    100.0
5.13     The Agricultural Training Center at Saber.  While a new, practically-
oriented curriculum has been developed, the center continues to use the old
curriculum for training agricultural technicians except for some of the new
courses. The old curriculum has a heavy emphasis on general subjects in the
first year. The primary reason for retaining the old curriculum is that the
temporary facilities did not permit the implementation of the new curriculum.
Teaching remains at present overly theoretical. The Director of Industrial
Education at the Ministry of Education assured the completion mission that as
of the beginning of the academic year in September 1985, serious efforts will
be made to implement the new, practically oriented curriculum. This entails
acquiring ten acres of the adjacent state farm for developing a farm for the
center and then purchasing the necessary livestock and feed. The prospects
for such a transfer to take place are considered good. Table 5.5 below is a
summary of curricula given in detail in Annex 3-7.



- 21 -
Table 5.5 Suamary of Agricultural Training Curriculum
S U B J E C T S                   Periods Per Week            Percentage
Appraisal  Actual        Appraisal  Actual
FIRST YEAR:
General Subjects                   7         16              18        44
Agricultural Subjects             33         20             82         56
Total                       40        36             100        100
Agricultural Subjects:
Theory                            10         20             30         95
Practical                         23                        70          5
Total                        33        20             100        100
SECOND YEAR:
General Subjects                   8          6            19         17
Special Subjects                  34         30            81         83
Total                        42        36             100        100
Special Subjects
Theory                            10-11      30            29-32      100
Practical                         23-24       -            68-71       -
Total                           34         30            100        100
5.14     Last year's students spent one month (rather than two as recomnended
at appraisal) of internship at the Nasser College of Agriculture, working in
plant production, animal husbandry and plant protection. The director of the
center estimates that two months will be spent in internship once the center
becomes fully operational in September 1985.



- 22 -
CHAPTER VI
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Summary Couclusions
6.01     Despite early implementation problems resulting from increases in
construction areas, manpower shortages and runaway inflation in the
construction sector, the project was implemented in only six years, which
compares well with regional averages in implementation performance (para 3.02).
This achievement may be attributed to good project management and to an
appropriate decision by the Government and the Association to scale the project
down by substituting rehabilitated facilities for the originally planned new
facilities at two out of three project sites (para 3.03).
6.02     The benefits to be derived from the project are expected to be
substantial despite the above mentioned implementation problems. New,
appropriate curricula have been prepared for the three vocational programs and
are being introduced as project facilities become operational. Appropriate
examination policies and regulations for all vocational trades were also
prepared to help ensure consistency of content and quality in each
specialization and to facilitate the development of future training centers
(para 3.10).
Lessons Learned
6.03     The large difference between appraisal estimates for construction
areas and the originally designed facilities indicates a lack of agreement
between the Borrower and the appraisal mission on an important project issue,
that should have been settled during appraisal. It also underscores the
desirability to base project cost estimates during appraisal on actual designs
rather than on schedules of accommodations (para 3.13).
6.04      The importafce of constructive participation of the various
Government agencies and the Association during project implementation cannot be
overstated. Many of the difficulties encountered during the early
implementation stage of the project (para 3.02) were later resolved as a result
of good cooperation between the Government and the Association (para 3.43).
This cooperative spirit was particularly pronounced within the Governmeat as
manifested by the large number of Government agencies involved in successful
curriculum development (para 3.10).
6.05     Enrollments and outputs remain disappointingly low at only 311 of
appraisal estimates and the project has not met its objectives in terms of
enrollment of females which is only 2% of the total, compared with appraisal
estimates of about 38X. This may point to a need to introduce special
marketing and information programs into project designs and to estimate
conservatively when dealing with the introduction of social change such as
increased participation of females (paras 5.04-5.08).



PEOELKS DEIOCMTIC It6Ptl8LIC OF YtEn
SECOND EDWCATION P16Ct - (CltDIT 865-YI)
COWARISON OF MET AND GCOSS FLOWR ARUAS
I Addition to Nbt Usable Area
for circulation a walls
let Usable Area                   Gross Area                  Appraisal
Appraisal Actual Diff. 4    Appraisal Actual Diff. *              Workabeet         Actual
Type ot Facilities        .2        .2       2            .2        m2                               W Z   (h  2
Academic & Coamnutal
1. At-Kod 1/             2730     2856   t 4.6           3195      3715     .16             15 (17)        30
2. Saber Aced. 11        1574     2549   +62.0           2110      3199      +52            15 (35)        25
Far= Didga.            600      852   +42.0            690      1004     *45             IS             18
3. N"aksia a             1600     1576   - 1.5           1840      2573     +40             15 (22)        63
TOTAL                6504     7833   +20.0           71635    10491     .34             15 (20)        34
1. Al-Kod 2J              785      990   e26              900      1475     +64             IS             49
2. Saber I/              1125      1630   445            1290      2364     .83             IS             45
3.  tukalla l            1125      1438   *28            1290      2162     +67             15             50
TOTAL                3035     4058   +34             3480      6001     472             1S             411
Total all Facilities 9539    1131S   .25            11315     16492     +46             15(9)         39
I/ Uholly or partly in converted apace.
2J NeWly built space.
3/ So-calculated X with 'Covered Area' included in full.
Notes Net Usable Area' is measured to iaside of vwals and partitions for each space.



- 24 -
6Ms 1-2
PKOPLZ S O3WICUATIC RIP8LIC Of Y!U
SiCOIID KDUC.ATZON PaO.CT - (CRIDtT 865-YDR)
2WlZFl)ltATION OF CtV2L WORrS CONrACTS
Contractual         Actual                         Additioul
Cel.tion of       Completion        Concract         Works        1 Construction
Contract          Contract          Aout   (Variation Orders)         Period       Tocal Cost
Project Institution        (Duration)        (Duration)           YD             YD              Overrun over      YD
contract 9riod
1. tadustrial Voc.        Dec., 1983         Dec., 1984       609,625.540         297.635         671         609,923.175
School - 1l-ICod        (18 months)       (30 months)
Z. Agricultural Voe.       Feb., 1984        Dec., 1984       384,t26.950      84,502.465 1/       63S        469,329.41S
School - Saber          (16 moutho)       (26 motha)
3.  Co*rcial Voc.         June, 1982         Dec., 1982       595,995.470    123,536.348_/         25X        719,531.818
School - Fous'ah      (24 mouths)        (30 months)      __
TOTAL                                       1,590,447.960    208,336.448                     1,798,784.408
1/ Due to extra work of restitution following refugees occupotion after contract signature.
_/ Tender documats omitted *ae boarding block, added back by variation order.



SaNod E*,catos Project iCredut 1165-1011
ftojat Coitletaa 3s1
ALtual and Estimated Project Costs by Item and Category
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ad 1                                                         . -C4                                                                                                   Tt
Slit ee k,s)a at                fbraatere                      rqmt                            id aad Local costs            *ssltuace              I         Costs
'to  j  J  c I          ia9paasaI         34tual:6kIfsr.:Ap.,al"         Actallkiffr.3#1taisal          kival3affer.14gap'asal          *ctsIAHOiEs4prM    assa1       4ct.aI:Iffa'dtperWzsal         &toaII01Uer.   I
Astlaatt         Costs   cc2 I   Mst:aate        Costs 2 is I  lEstiakta        Costs   so I  Ztstosat         Casts   ast  I  tEstasita      costs I in I  Mstleate          Coast.so I  a     t   o
-------------------I--------                                                                    ----- -2--------     414-35)2   ----------      I 1928f---- ---------          2 123-fl) fatal
Itact.   tfAc.                 : tAct.  lot).        :        I tact.  tact.        2        1Eui.  tact.          I           tadl.  tac.         I           tact.  tact.       I
2C.ataog. Cbatiog.     2           ats.alag           I         Iato.Caag             2        IotilAosCta                     CsagCtang            2            tiol.castt        I
2  I  2  3     4:       5             1      8*~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~ I   3',  3  122 3  24   16  7  is  9  20I 31  23  22  23  24    2~.
V&taidta,     ad,nStIAa)2 AcEd:' 2  .      922    933       I       is    i4   14        23 I   20      255    540    1122       24      34     57     be                               01    993I  1,30    ,14       30      24  
Isaaua2cgoster bwad:2          395     24*    ISa    2032       25     so     a0     551I       4      5     to    IOU1 I      1      9     44    4111                              01      231    304    an0    tti       3
Al AltKm IatAI:;        3e    1.333  1,149      50:      10o    125    144     3t11    ha    240    SW0    322 30        3     43    103    340.       0       o      0      a2   1,224  t,41  2,534       4     3/
Votataaal Aqta&utw2a;              40d .  4"  53  9,053    422'    45      54      I 73   30      29     35    245    42711       2      28     00    34 1                             0      04   1,100  1,471      34      213
Ir.aaaaqgLstet Mwad::          24i     356    310   (113)2      15     44     72     442        4      5      0    300: .    2     15      23     532                             02      Sib    422    415      42     &
M SAW    ot           753   3,009  1,34       352       00    IGO     45     45 1    2294    310    275    424)2      33     43    303    402.       0       0      0      01  1.6O  3,52   3,34         24     21
Vocataaoa Loaawc1aat0ckd:          417     559  3,019      132      45     U      a I       31    184    325    133    410)1       14     iI     45    501I                             02    50    75   3,324        14      9
3edamiag Cat*thaard:2          293     392 1,004    5S2        37     44     72     312        4      5      to    to 300    to     3      41   21521                             0       344    4541,129    140         A4
at  Aala :Total.         110     951  2,65    392        32    303    159     542       88    I30    123      W5s      24     3t    84    771I        0       0          0  @2      W4  3,215  2,453    102       35
blall 100.6349          2                                                               **                                                                   50     57     50  412)1        so     57      so    412      1
                            2-- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - -  - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -   - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
luteS troject Costs WUSI,owl:  2,3s44   3,I4   5.21/        642;   ZoI    328    448       432;   590    liv    943       25:      90     17    29     502I    s0       57     50    41232. 3,133  4,405  4,915        so   160
..... 42". ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4
4
I-



'-4
1461    K       WI  on'?  1011  11111    it    @0              It        s 0 1 SI      0       0      lZ        L 901 ft10* a            It     :9;    fit    0        9       0P31  *go       eos      2Icf0*SIl OW3IfM)aOM 5t1
1      41il11      o  0       u1      :e:      It      Oz     It      I    0           r.     0       to0          0  ce              zo       o              0       :o       o      *        o                            lit
lI S     lot    "a6   451    110    1       0       09         0         UI    Of       It     S       '105     1*      pt     a0      Kt       SS    'K       sz      ll    411    &i          Ste         IIPpttiI
DI u        GU     53t    415    10         *      9       0       lOl      I H            I                       I05;           :;        oz     9       1      :o;       1oIs53    ~                 iU2~3.8ttI
141      *1     LII    IZ    041    19          0       0      0       1 act    95      9      P.      :(oil    40      to     I       I Os     00      01    'I                titU   041      1,6      I :w?3v :'I,A..I:, *,uo,e,oo
------------------~~~~----'         --------------------                     ---------  - 11--------------- ---------------- --------------- ----!I---------
110  *1  109    IZI    WIll~         ~ ~~ ~ 0  @     0         "I    @i       01     It      :(97     S       O4tt    lo0    :ct      0s     St      R        S t      it    off 6*0  A9lai ::115:qs W
9      Ii,     tot    *3    Oil    I0           0      0              100       *      0                 0        I K                 :        oz      II     Ui      lOl    tot    *fl        Z1    ~ :PH'M:iIW3 516"I#
Ill  o  too    ow    *1  :0     *       o     ~~      ~~~~~ ~          ~~~0 :"I    a  01  I  IIZ)    14    IRV   *01    160 at          45     91      11        9!    011      391      1liiutttW~
I1It     19    as    90        at    I O        0       0      0         Ott190         St      5  It    l?    04504t                  I It     10      It     St      19       019    on0*     10         II1O       P"  IV if
Is Al     i i 10        "I1  toe                               0         tit1   91            I       2001    0        I       I      lI S      it     of    4        :o        l      06 for lt91         pm 2P06J3v-j s9tSiYJ5
WI0    00      00    00       t10      0       0       9              169      01       11            1111      " 931         (it91   1It      0*      00             1 I      tit    oil      lit  ~ 6WIT  WIMMIN1fStIv3DA
sAl     *1     01      El      11     2*1       41     It      if     96        01            U       i        it     Al             is               9        
k!U1;UY'3SIU3.               1    hiws4~3                          u;waralmn.               S     hsoovS'uoo3:             1      1111"3i@t1U6"            2      -         iWfliO
P'I 13'31           1      131 ' 1  I1                      13')  11'39   1         1      113'    V')2   1         2      'p)  1'132               I  'I        3'1    's'23
P       I0   WI 1 9*U3      alolveti I  as 0 S imo           9*"'I3'1  t 0"  1 ''es         9*Nt)S3:        Of I 1iq        *i"')?s " I           ~ ~ *u~3  ass 51103                         85t113:
I    ~ ~ ~ ~~1~~~IS3             I            *2isWsV            I  1)103 PV1' I     914         1             )uUtS3            1*f'ma                                   'ad;ails~
tolW. 1*114 *1033
lJ30a3qW-) PUP  malI  q  P,3t1P   3trnJo)  prs1p!1'3  pity  jrvniV
(NPOIl153)3)P*OJJ WT3M1103 p063'



- 27 -
Annex 2-3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Of YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - (CREDIT 865-YDR)
COMPARISON OF UNIT COSTS (USQ)
Unit Costs US$/M 2
Appraisal               Aetual      Z 
Excluding    Including        Unit    Increaase/
Project item                        Cont.         Cont.          Cost    Decrease
Industrial VTC Acad.& 1/
Al-Kod           Communal           217              289         265          8 1/
Boarding 2/        217             290          533       + 84
Total           217             289          341      + 18
Agricultural    Acad.& 1/3/
VTC              Comunal            181             243          251       +  3 1/3/
Saber            Boarding 1/        207             278          131       - S3 TP
Total           190             254          208      - 18
Commercial       Acad.& 2J
VTC              Communal           227             304          419       + 38 2/
Mukalla          Boarding  2        227             304          465       + 53 2/
Fouah)
Total           227             304          440      + 45
Totals;          Aead. &
Communal           203             272          297       +  9
Boarding           217             291          350       + 20
Total           207             278          316      + 14
L/ Wholly or partly in converted space.
2/ Newly-built space.
3/ New farm buildings included.



Annex 2-4
l0!~~~ .A 4IQ!Iis           j h
]g    $g81! X N1 1
i: i l  8 03 9   t ^ | S   S S  j  8~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
!   !  F  aj2I  j                N0



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF VhEN
SEOOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 865-YDR)
ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED COSTS OF FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
(US$ 000,000)
Furniture                                                    Equipment
Project Institution    Actual 1/   Appraisal 21    Appraisal        Percentage        Actual 1/    Appraisal 2/    Appraisal        Percentage
W/Cant.      Overrun                                          U/Cont.          Overrun
1.  Industrial Voc.
School, Al-Kod       0.16         0.10             0.12              +31           0.55          0.22             0.26           +11 3/
2.  Agricultural Voc.
School, Saber        0.14          0.08            0.1O              +45           0.28          0.29             0.37           - 26
3.  Commercial Voc.
School, Foua'ah      0.16          0.08            0.10              +54           0.11          0.09             0.13           -  5
Total                0.46          0.26            0.32              +43           0.94          0.60             0.76           o 25
1/ Including installation charges, insurance and transportation.
2/ Excluding contingencies.
3/ Due to machinery tool cost increases.
Ul
VI



P8OPLE'S DEHOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEaN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 865-YDTE
ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED DISBURSEHENTS BY FISCAL YtR
Disbursements Per Year                                 Ciaalative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal      Calendar Year                       Planned                          Actual                     Planned      Actual       I Actual
Year        PDQY Fiscal Year           U8$ milliov         S of Total   us8 Million            I of Total      US$t         u8s        of Planned
1978
1979                                       0.00                 -               -                   -              0.00         -          -
1979
1980                                       0.40                 10.0            -                   -              0.40         -          -
1980
1981                                       2.20                 55.0            0.39                 9.8           2.60        0.39        15.0
1981
1982                                       1.40                 35.0            0.27                 6.8           4.40        0.66        16.5
1982
1983                                                                            1.81                45.2                       2.47        61.8
1983
1984                                                                            0.73                18.2                       3.20        80.0
1984
1985                                                                            0.38                 9.5                       3.58        89.5
1985
Total                               4.00                 100.0            3.58 1L             89.5          4.00         3.58 11    89.5
I/ As of April 22, 1985 The balance of the Credit is expected to be disbursed by Jone 30, 1985.
x



31 -
,1zIS iaCM=mcLC :' mu
Izatrial V      eCa:tm T      Cater AL-Iad
Plwe of 0gMber of SuA s                               Diatom  fuu Al-god
Saber                         26                      200 N
Loader                        20                      10 IK
Yafa                           6                      150k K
Ahwar                          6                      1S  Ki
Ga'ar                         I0                       16 kAI
Lahe                          12                       60 Rk
Zingibar                     lo
Total                         90
!gdLdbagt l Vmaoaiul Trabizg Ctr, Saber                    Sabe
Mukaila                       9                      620 Ka
Dhala                         5                       100k 
Yafa                          2                       180 Km
Shoaib                         6                      125 K
Kresh                         5                        95 Pil
Abyan                         10                       901F
Mukeiras                      1                       180 i
Tota                          38
Com=iad  Vocaicia1  ,       , ,z C  , 1   1                ?    a
Sir Pfviz                     37                       60 kn
Qatin Pioviae                  6                      162 k
Seiyus Povitm                 11                      180 k
Hajr P                        24                      100 K
Dom Poviu                     4                       1F80M
bwe Gmen t                    4                       200 K
Mkhm Garmunet                  3                      400 En
Altil Povixce                 24                       50 Km
Bnu Provi                     15                       50s F
outside Mhla                  13                       45 k1
Total                        141



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (cteDrT 865-YDi)
STUDENT ENROLLMENTS
Appraisal                   Student Intakes                        Total        Total
Project Institutions             Estimate        1981/82      1982/83      1983/84     1984/85   Enrollment    boarding
for 1981/82                                                        1984/85        1984/85
Commercial Training
Day classes                        300           -            102          86            90           166          141
Evening classes                    175           _- 
Total                           475            -            102         86             90           166         141
(Proportion of girls)                75Z           -             -           4            4.4           4.2
Agricultural Training
Skilled workers                    250                         -           -            38             38           38
Formers                            200           -            _           -            112 1          112 1         -
Total                            450            -            _      -                 150             38           38
(Proportion of girls)                202           -             -           -            0             0
Industrial Training
Automotive                                       -             -           -            302/           3Q0/
General metal work                               -             -           -            302/           3011
Masonry and tile                                 -             -           -            30Q/           3021
Electricity                                             -            -            -                     -
Carpentry                                        -             -           -
Sub-Total Enrollw2nts
Day                             250            -             -          -             902/          90o/          BO
Evening                         130            -             -          -              -             -            -
Total Enrollments                 380            -            _           _             902/          90/           80
(Proportion of girls)             152            _             -                         0              0            0
GRAND TOTAL                      1.305                        102         86           330 3         406  3/
I/ 112 trained at Giar.
2/ Assigned places.
3/ Including j/ and 1/*



- 33 -
Annex 3-3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 865-YDR)
GRADUATES
Annual OutPuts
Appraisal       Actual      Current        Estimate
Estimate         for
Project Institutions            for 1983         1984         1985            1986
1. Industrial Trainin8
Day                 115             -             -               -
Evening              65
Sub-Total(l)                  180                          -               -
2. Agricultural Training
- Skilled workers            110             -             26              12
- Farmers                    200              112.1/
Sub-Total (2)                310                           26              12
3. Comiercial Training
- Day classes                 135            90            79              87
- Evening classes             75             -             -               -
Sub-Total(3)                 210             90            79              87
GRAND TOTAL                   700           202           105              99
1/ At Giar Extension Center 112 farmers received training.



- 34 -                                  Mo  34
EE1'S  C ATC aZC 
Sa        ED=A      PM=  (comrr 865-
Teadns
A. Avaiable Teachas
rai.aille                          Available        Estimate of
!ast2mte of       Qalifiegd         Qu8ified           tal No. of
Pwject Istititim         asquiramnt        Ihtctoes          Tzttuctors        tstncts
1982             1984              1985               1986
1  Al-"   Irxistrul          22                15                 23              28
TainiG                   (+Ia)e/
2. Saber Agriultural         20                22                 22              22
Trainizg Center         (+1)/
3.  Wala Coma=W              21                1,4               1.5              is
Ta    Co            (+I)-!
63               S.                 60               68
1/ Dixtor of the Intitute
8. Suject Distribution kuig Teaus
2Tudier
First Year   Seci Yar   Total
Saber AEriclturul Center
Genesl sbjects                              3              4             7
Agricutural subjects                        5             10            1S
Total                                  8             14            22
Scood Year SEE!a tictU
Gieal                                                      4
!brtiasl tbi                                               3
Plant Protection and Bedeepizg                             4
Anijii Iisbundry                                           3
Total                                                14
Al-IKod trdustrial Center                            First & Sod Yea
Ceznral Subjects                                          8
Special Subjects                                         1S
23



-35 -                                   A        3.4
hg2
XWC=    ima  (r V6W
FirLt and Secod Yea
Al-&i Idghtrial- Cater (cotnciAm
dmical aibjects
auilding comtmwtion                             5
hit.otiie mSdwica                               5
Gw,rs1  wl      hm ndaics                       5
btalia CamccialCue
Gwaml azbjects                                     4
ACc=Mcw?                                           3
ScsAril                                        4
Gcamwtims e d Seretarl                             4
Thaura' 62aUficatiow
No. of Tmaderr   PIec  of  rang
Twnhical Subjects               4           MILI TkdmiAal Iutitut
Taduic.al Suject.               11          Gersan Dm=Lic kpiublic
Total                      15
Gawal Ubjects                   a           Collage of Eduacacio, Aden
Total                      23
comarcial (HAS1Il
U           N_iwule, collg  of T; Anmics
3          syrians, traine eeatziat. mider
contat
1          &gptian, aited apacraites under
Contract
TOWal                      15
Agricul bC llof natb
8          litils College of Apiculbneand
2          Comeumn dcuc  Papiblic
9          Trained  lpentat  under cntrct
3          yaAW collgep pamuetu  (on PZC-
-           ~fmwimml traiin. para. 5.13)
Total                      22



- 36 -
Annex 3-5
BUlB'S IEWAUC aLc Y' Wm
EWC  :rw  (w           m   865-i
_zuiw   for amogs1   ocaL aal ,ai Cmtw at Igmlia
Pa:ioda VW 1w
=it Y             Segoc    Year
A. Acaim  Sectim
Ganul ogbLeta
1. Aabic                             5         6         4         4
2Z*  Uii                             4         S         4         3
3. CLvics                            1         2         2         2
4. RyscaainiT W                      2         2         2         1
Spc2i sibjecta
5. Coial Arithltic                   6         3         4         4
6. kd*ewirg                          8        -          6         -
hoc-mca                         -         6         -         6
7.  Ciae1  KwIsI                     2        2          -         -
8.   E.M ly fitip1s of A.
aid Oqixanu m                   3         -                   -
tijgs AA4^;trtion                    -         -              2
9. Civii SuwicoG m ' Ordm            2                   - -       -
Govmeuin  was&Rhgtuiscwu    -             --2
10. SHrtarial Partie                  3        3          -        -
11. G_emtt & ElbUc Seor
AolCa                          a                    5        3
12. T    of A        c        _                           4 _
LU. E1m5 aiy Costm AMa:               -        -          3        4
14. Az bicTpir                        a        3          2        3
15. Ewiih Typiz g                              2          2        2
16.  MAS=  Pactic                    j         2         .
Mtal A                          36        36        33        36
B. Secretaril Seati
Gom kxects
1. Arabia                            5        6          5        4
2. R%tlih                            5        5          3        3
3. CLva                              1        1          2        2
4. RMoysaL Traizmiz                  2        2         .       
X14        14         9
N  Ar  gbicShorthd                   4        -          4        _
6. Se-tazil                         4         -4
Avabic                          -         4         a         4
7. AsbicTypirg                      4         6          5        6
8.  ftlish Typi                      3        4          5        5
9*  3j0  p~                          4 
L0. ainrciAl .4richtc               2         3          -        3
11. Coammial XI                      2         2          -        -
So .*  ar-al *nrwtie  -n 1i         --
23. xeioi  f .i sm                   -         -          :-
14. Civil Seice GAMI  d              -         -          2        2
15. &win   Ada.  dst tiai                      -          -        2
16. Aaccumcacy                       a         3a
onl                             23        22        24        27



- 37 -
Am= 3-6
mm'S mra c  cw(D aF   )
am   ,ZL   P5 (rrF 86-
oxrriwltan for tidawtruil Vocational TB.z  cuter
1. hAtwtiw  =choics
2. CaxpwAcy
3. Moctta  Insallatin
4. Gbunl bta1 1hdsmics
5.  asm y ad Tile (Cntuctziai a  Tili)
Enod per We
Frst Yewr          Sed Yew
Gsural- bjecta - Cma for all T w                         -
1. habjc                                   2         2        -           2
2. E4liJh                                  2         2         2          2
3. civics                                  1         1         2          1
4.> Riy       Tzniai                       2         2         -          2
. mth.                                     -         2         -           2
6.  yuic                                   -         2         -          2
7.ai.i.tzy                                 :         1         -          _
7        1.2       6          10
6                    S~~~ -              6          --
& HaintiCI an                             5         -W        4          a
9.TdmcalDmeii                              3         3         3          3
10. Buie T         f5bd                     5         a         a 
1iarkhup       ka                      -         s         -           9
11. A1jU  Tlhooa          y                 - -                 8          -
Trade Specialty                                            -           9
12. Wkp  awtice                            20        20        21         20
33       28        36          32
Total                                      40        40        42          42
butrigal   an
Ei*A  w.   of Itcrial ?raii   duzing the vacatia paid bomm the flat and
ser yes
Finst Yew       Secid Yewr       First Yew         Secci Yea
*    ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ gislAtal  M,fln  AcomaL
G.iral Subjects          7    12           6      10       17.5    30         14      24
Tacmical Subjects       33    25          36      32       82.5    ?0        86       76
40    40         42      42       I00     100       100      100
.acmical  iubiecs      3      a         15      12        39     29        42       38
Practical             20    20          21      20        61      71       S8       62
33    28         3       32       10D    100        100      100



38 -            Ahnnr 3-7
Par I
'tWWS MN           TIC    JLIC    M
9D                 W E  (WMDr 865- g
gwrijagl  for  Aricultal Vocata D               Cater
Periods Mr Week
First Yea -  a                                                        Actul
Goneal biects
1. Aai                                                2            2
2. Mathetics                                          2            3
3. Civics                                             1            1
4. Physical Training                                  2            1
5. Ealish                                             -            2
6. Qmitry and B 1ioo                                  -            3
7. Apicultural Eiee                                   -            4
7          16
&2k                    Aktwl
Theoxetica
Ths~retical Practical Total         and
Pti cal
Agria4lbiral &ifibects
8. Priwiiples of Ap8rmy
& Field M"     nt           2          4        6
9. Principles of Irticultuzu
&Food TechioloV             2          4        6
10. Prieas of Soil Sciesce,
Plant Nutrition and
Fertilization               1           3       4
11. krinciples of Pint
Protection                  1          3        4            4
12. Principles of AMiml
IRibaodty & Daixy
Production                  2          4        6
13. Principles of Agricultual
Egze rx P   Mhazation,
&iwying, Irrigation)        2          5        7
14. Basic Plants                                                 4
15. Basic lbrti'iltuwe                                           4
16. Dairy & Food Production                                       4
17. Basic Mimal }zbandry                                         4
10         23       33           SO
Total: 40 periods/wb                                           36



-39 -                             A=3-7
hp 2
3I'8 D~2C liHAC aY1S
$me SUAU WM (MmT 865-Us)
FeridahAk
April   AcJSl
alr   l         Actual    Xfvot      peau
Gmel Sabjects                          7          16       17.5        44
Apicltural Sbjects                    33          20       82           56
Awicultml Sbet
A4im          TP      Acaa        T4P
Thry                                 10          20       30        iDO
Practical                            23                   70
Total                         332-0 
Secm  Year - Speial
Poiioda gem Walk
Axxm          Acta
OGrul &Wot4s (Sm  fr te fLya
indicated below)
1. Arabic                                             2            2
2. Mathewtics                                         2            0
3. civia                                              2            1
4. Ryuical  aming                                     2            1
S. sliah                                                           2
Thortical Pratical Totl   Theeical
an Practical
A. Ilxtiaaltuz and A~q
6. Veptable Poduction      2           4       6            6
7. Fsuit P kodztian        2           4       6            6
8. Fo t2y, Vi4cal &
0E!CHItal Nut  &
Plaats, landscapin    1            3      4
9. Field cvp produtic
(Fibta, Ollsoed,
Tabecco)               2           4      6            6
10. Field crop pnduction
(Grain  & Fadder)      2           4       6
11. Seeds Pnowiuct
(Vqcable & Field
Crops)                 2           4      6            3
12. Plant Dicoratica                                         3
13. Crop Productioa (sed
in geval)                                              6
11          23     34          -i
ToCalu 42 PEioisMk                                        36



ekE'S  *I(XEATICW M        C     (I I*A
E. Fann Kahziat i<n
S%UW  SlXTATIV YWLT(MLUr (tEDIT 865-Yvh)
1. aniiOs                            2           3         5
2. Irrigation                        1           3         4
Appdisal                 Actual                          3. Form ui ildinsa                   1           3         4
4. 4gri-tdoni2atimz                  3           4         7
flm>tLical PraCLical Total        flhretic*l                      5. Tractom                           2            5         7
ad                          6. kddcal Ibxlp Patice              2            5        7
5g. PlJuaat h1g.cti4j, auvl -q4t                                        Practical
it          23       34
I. EkL(a5calbtau4o                   2           5         7            6
2. bimtici&.s & Ruicideu             1           3         4            6                                Toelb s 42 PariodlslAd
3. Plaomt Di se                      2           5         7            6
4. Mcuikmepieg & silkhar. Brelig     2           5         7            6                                                        iab   de
5. Iterinary & slical lnasto         1           3         4            3
6. Sprjyiog  & ib tzir Naduiswa      2           4         6            3                                                                            Anwaial    Ab.a
10          24      i34           -30                                                     Agaiml    Actual  Pfrc"   Pe
Tvtal; 42 Ferimiaft                                               36                            cmaal njeta                 8             6        19           17
-. h iisma   ft "A wti4xl     Sp cial    s jects          34           30        81           83
(:. Mauaml n au.- ti>r
42           36        100         U100
1. Aiami h%A.tion                    2           4         6            6                                                       4
2. Rdltry lWki:ti la                 1           3         4            6                        Special subjects
3. Aiami Ittrition                               3         4            6                                                     AlJprOl       t  *t&ml              TOP               O
4. hiultry Mtatriti                  1           3         4            3                                                                                                            1
5. Ahin.l Healtb                     2           5         7            6                           theoty                    10-11          )30        9-32       )30
6. tRlsyM  al(lth                    2           5         7            6                            factical                 24-23          )         71 -68      )
7. ILoterinidry & hwlical Inett 
10          24        34          i30                                                       34           30            0      t100
Todl; 42 ILriols/MmA                                               36
factical Field Traunigs EiSt  b   practica  field tmia8  *ariz  the ai  periio
0. lhai:y all lagi TaI)lug                                                                           betimon the first and secod year.
1. milk Pleuaige 6 laboratory
Establiadmdat                    1            3        4
2. itilk Pat Pxcxtion                2           5         7
3. tv Ptwtixs                        2           5         7
4. ksice 6 61u1ea PucJAtioi          2           4         6
5. Fl CDtJitg                        1           3         4
6. teauzvAtiun by .anting            2           4         6
10          24        34                                                                                                                      >
Touls 42 &r-ioda/M* IX
QQ 



-     - - - - - - - - - -   -
-.    01. .i!g   
{ w-  W             t t                 # ~~~- [1z
#fig1- ------------a1
g                    o            S            S   8        F 0  0  E



- xS - 
li1 "i    T    A -  i    T
S| I , 
ML )Lit



- 43 -
COMHENTS FROM THE BORROWER                             ATTACHMENT I
JWX0078 J6I738 IN 01/02:07 OUT O1J02:11
=2289YJ) 1KH1IT
MAR 01 10:02
MR . tRAHAM DONALDSOU
CHIEFP AGRIC AND HUMAN
EVALUAIAION CEPT, WORLO BANK.
SUBJECT:- PROJEC1- COMPLETION REPORT CREDIT 865-YDR
WITH REFERENCE TO YOUR LETTER OF 11.12.86 REGARDINO ABOVE SUBJECT.
PLEASED TO INFORM YOU THAT WE ARE IN FULL AGREEMENT TO THE CONTENT
OF IHE REPORT SOME VERY MINOR CORRECTION ON 1HE REPORT AS FOLLOWS*-
1) CORRECTION OF NAMES IN D[STRIBUTI1'4 LIST ENCLOSED IN ABOVE
LEITER AS FOlLOWSS-
(A) MINISTER OF EDUCATION# DR, SALEM ABUBAKER BA-SIl.M
INSTEAD OF HASSAN AHMEED SALLAMI.
(B) MINISTER OF CONSTRUCTION MR. MOHAMMED AHMED SAL.MAN
INStEAD OF MR. FADIL AWADH DUBBA.
2) CUORECTION OF ''THIRD EDUCATItON PROJECT.''
TO ''SECOND EDUCATION PRO.JECT.''
ON THE FOLLOWlNG PAGESS-
(A) COVER (B) PAGE VXI) 1ITLE (C) PAGE. IV IITLE.
CORRECTION OF tHE FOLLOWINO NAMES XN ANNEX 3-1
FRUM                             TO
LODA                           LOA D1 R
YAJAR                          GA'AR
LAJ1H                          LAHEJ
BHALA                          ONALA
ABIEN                          ARYAN
MUKRAS                         MUKE I RAS
KINIDl.Y REQUESTED TO AMFND THE ABOVE-MENTIONED ERRORS. * EST REBA RDS.
ABDIJLLA SAEED ABADDAN
DEPUTY mINISTER OF PLANNING.
=22#8YY) TKH lIT



