Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2097-YDR
FILE COPY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Second Education Project)
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
November 10, 1978
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Since February 1973)
Official Rate
US$1.00 = Yemini Dinar (YD) 0.344
YD1.OO = US$2.90
MEASURES
1 m            3.28 feet
1 m2      =   10.76 square feet
1 km2          0.38 square miles
1 hectare       2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Second Education Project)
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ..............................                          1
Socio-Economic Background  ....................                        1
Development and Reform of the Education
System  .....................................                       1
Education Development  Strategy  ....               ...........        2
Educational  Issues  ...........................                       5
Bank Strategy and Lending  for Education                ......         8
II.    THE PROJECT  .......................................                          9
Introduction  .................................                       9
Objectives  and Scope  .........................                     10
Industrial Training Center  ...................                      11
Agricultural Training Center  ....                .............      12
Commercial  Training Center  ...................                     12
Technical Assistance  .........................                      13
III.    PROJECT COST,  FINANCING,  IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS  ...................................                       14
Cost of the Project  ..........................                      14
Project Financing  ............................                      16
Recurrent Costs  ..............................                      17
Implementation  ...............................                      17
Disbursements  ................................                      18
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  ................................                         19
Benefits  .....................................                      19
Risks  ........................................                      19
Key Implementation Dates  .....................                      19
V.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.............20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   CHARTS AND TABLES
Chart 1    Structure of New Education System ................       21
Table 1.1  Comparative Education Indicators .................       22
Table 2.1  Technical Assistance for Fellowship Training .....       24
Table 3.1  Contingency Allowances ...........................       25
Table 3.2  Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student .........       26
Chart 2    Implementation Schedule ..........................       27
Table 3.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..............       28
2.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE....        29
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C. Selected Working Papers
MAP



GLOSSARY
PDRY:        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
MOE:         Ministry of Education
MOL:         Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOC:         Ministry of Construction
ERC:         Education Research Center
VTC:         Vocational Training Center
Unity School:  School providing basic education extending over
grades 1-8 and divided into two cycles: lower unity
(grades 1-4) and upper unity (grades 5-8).






PDRY
Basic Data (1976)/a
Total Population                                              1.7 million
Rate of Population Growth                                     2-3% p.a. (estimate)
Per Capita GNP                                                US$280
Literacy Rate                                                 20% (estimate)
Primary School Enrollment (Gr. 1-6)                               /b
As a Percentage of Age Group 7-12                      89%  -
Lower Secondary School Enrollment (Gr. 7-9)
As a Percentage of Age Group 13-15                      32% /b
Unity School/c Enrollment (gr. 1-8)
As a Percentage of Age Group 7-14                      62% /b
Upper Secondary School Enrollment (Gr. 10-12)
As a Percentage of Age Group 16-18                     11% /b
Higher Education Enrollment
As a Percentage of Age Group 18-22                      0.1%
Central Government Expenditures on Education                  18.2% recurrent
As a Percentage of Total Government                    6.2%  capital
Expenditure                                            14.0% total
Central Government Expenditures on Education
As a Percentage of GDP                                 6.6%
a/ See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.
b/ Gross enrollment ratio including overaged pupils.
c/ Primary and lower secondary schools are being replaced by unity schools on a
phased basis (1976-79).






I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Since Independence, in 1967, the revolutionary government in PDRY
has vigorously pursued socialist policies aimed at rapid economic and social
development and a more equitable distribution of incomes. Key elements in
government policy were the establishment of a strong public sector, initiated
with the nationalization of the main economic activities; the diversification
of the narrow service oriented base of the economy by investing in the com-
modity producing sectors (agriculture, fishing and industry); the implementa-
tion of agrarian reforms; and the provision of urgently needed education and
health services to all population groups. The development of an effective
public administration, at central and regional levels, was emphasized and
social and economic planning introduced.
1.02      The country with a per capita GNP of US$280, is still one of the
least developed countries in the world. The problems faced by the government
are formidable. The limited availability of natural resources combined with
rugged topography and difficult climatic conditions severely constrain eco-
nomic development. A critical shortage of skilled technical and managerial
personnel further constrains development efforts. These problems are com-
pounded by a low population density of less than five persons per square
km, and emigration of workers to the neighboring countries. The government
has recently taken measures to restrict emigration which should help to
alleviate the problem. The educational level of the labor force is extremely
low and the adult literacy rate is estimated at under 20%.
1.03      Despite these adverse conditions the country has, with the assis-
tance of external financial and technical aid, achieved a healthy GDP growth
rate of 8% annually over the past few years, mainly as a result of the
effective mobilization of public investment, which rose from 7% of GDP in
1970 to over 23% in 1975, as well as a series of structural and institu-
tional reforms which increased the absorptive capacity of the economy.
Dependent on substantial inputs of external aid, considerable potential for
further economic development exists in particular in agriculture, fisheries,
manufacturing (mainly food processing, textiles and building materials),
construction and transport. If investment programs in these areas are pur-
sued vigorously, and effective measures taken to ease manpower and various
remaining institutional constraints, growth of real GDP could average about
6-7% annually over the next decade. The attendant manpower needs have not yet
been determined. Very tentative estimates of such needs, related to growth
targets for the various economic sectors and giving rough orders of magnitude
only, are reflected in para 1.18 against supply proposals.
Development and Reform of the Education System
1.04      Following independence, a Ministry of Education (MOE) with regional
directorates was established and modern education extended to all areas of



- 2 -
the country. Over a period of years all Koranic and private schools were
nationalized and education at all levels is now public and free.
1.05      The MOE has achieved a large measure of success in generalizing
educational opportunities. Total enrollments in the school system rose
from about 94,000 in 1968 to about 276,000 in 1975, an average annual increase
` 16%. Gross enrollments at the primary, lower secondary and upper secondary
levels now represent 89%, 32% and 11% of the age group. Participation of
girls varies from about 31% at primary level to 22% at secondary level. The
government is intensifying its efforts in the less developed rural areas to
resolve socio-economic and cultural problems militating in particular against
the schooling of girls. The participation of girls has continued to accelerate
since 1973 due to the introduction of special financial incentives, the wide-
spread application of co-education and the enactment of laws prohibiting
marriage prior to completion of primary education.
1.06      The education system is currently in a stage of transition.  Under
reforms being initiated on a phased basis in 1976-77, (i) the 6-year primary
and 3-year lower-secondary schools are being replaced by unity schools pro-
viding eight years of basic education; (ii) the duration of secondary general
education will be extended to four years (this is subject to further review),
with the duration of secondary technical education retained at three years;
and (iii) one to two years of vocational training will be provided at the
post-unity school level. Conversion to the unity school structure is
expected to be completed by 1979-80.
Education Development Strategy
1.07      The post independence education and training policies had two
objectives: (i) democratization of the educational system and concomitantly
the elimination of adult illiteracy; and (ii) meeting manpower requirements of
the public services and providing managers and skilled workers for the evolving
._udern sector. The government's development strategy in education continues
to be directed towards these overall objectives but with priority attention
'iven to achieving a better adaptation of the system to the mai]power needs of
the econo:ay.
(a) Generalization of Basic Education
1.08      The target is to have all the relevant age-group enrolled in
basic education (grades 1-8) by 1985.  Enrollments at that level represented
62% of the age-group in 1975-76 (82% for boys and 42% for girls); these
figures include, however, a large percentage of overaged students. In view
of a perceivable slowing down in enrollment growth, particularly for boys,                     A
and a continuing high level of dropout (para 1.24), the 1985 target appears
to be overambitious. Limitations on available financial resources may further
constrain attainment of the government's target (para 1.27).



- 3 -
(b) Reorientation of the Education System
1.09      Measures in this respect have focussed on the following:
(i) Curricula are being revised with the objective of developing
programs more relevant to the country's socio-economic needs
and to the realities of the local environment. An Education
Research Center (ERC) has been established in the MOE charged
with developing policies and programs, including the develop-
ment of curricula and syllabi, production of textbooks, crash
training of teachers and quality improvements.
(ii) Programs at the upper unity school level (grades 5-8) are
being diversified to provide pre-vocational industrial and
agricultural training. A network of 26 centers offering
such pre-vocational training are being constructed and
equipped, each center to serve 4-6 unity schools.
(iii) The vocational training programs being introduced at the
post-unity school level will provide a job-oriented alterna-
tive to general secondary education.
(iv) It is intended to limit access to general secondary educa-
tion for unity school graduates to higher education input
and manpower training needs. Current proposals are to
limit the capacity of general secondary schools for the
foreseeable future to about 13,500 places to provide, with
double shifts, a capacity of about 24,000. This would still
leave an output of about 28,000 from general secondary
schools over the period to 1985 as against estimated needs
of about 19,000. However, the provision of some specializa-
tions in general secondary schools would help to absorb the
surplus output of those schools (para 1.19).
(c) Meeting Teacher Needs
1.10      The government is ensuring a sufficient supply of teachers to match
the planned expansion in student enrollments. In addition to increasing the
output of primary teachers from three institutions in Governorates 1 and 5,
teacher training has also been commenced in Governorates 2, 3 and 4, using
existing secondary schools. The number of primary teacher trainees has been
increased from 386 to 794 (29% girls) over the past five years; in addition
100 trainees (lower secondary graduates) attend a one-year crash training
program.  Under a further interim measure introduced in 1973-74, up to 1,000
secondary graduates are being assigned annually to primary teaching for a
minimum of one year to meet any shortfall in primary teacher supply.
1.11      Training facilities are expected to be augmented and improved over
the next five years. Two new institutions in Governorates 2 and 3, each with



-4-
a capacity of 360 pre-service places, will be provided under the first IDA-
assisted education project (Credit 494) and the government proposes to provide
new institutions in Governorates 4 and 6, with capacities of 240 and 120,
respectively. The resultant overall output of 450 to 500 teachers annually
from 1983, who will teach in the four lower grades of the unity school, should
meet the need for new teachers at that level.
1.12      Teachers for the upper unity schools will be trained in a two-year
diploma course at the College of Education in Aden; the currently proposed
annual output of 300 diploma holders would leave a shortfall of about 2,000
qualified teachers at that level through the 1980s. Secondary teachers
are being trained in a degree-level program at the College of Education.
In view of the proposed limitation to growth in the secondary schools, no
problem is visualized in meeting needs at the secondary level.
(d) Eliminating Adult Illiteracy
1.13      Determined efforts are being made to mobilize all available resources
in a national literacy campaign. According to the 1973 literacy law, all of
the economically active population between the ages of 12 and 45 must attend a
9-month literacy program (8 hours per week) within the period 1974-79, and the
entire adult population by 1982. While attendance to date has been far short
of target, progressive improvement is evident with enrollments increased from
5,300 in 1973/74 to 21,700 in 1975/76.   Dropout rates are high however, and
less than 40% of those enrolled have completed the full course successfully.
As only about 12% of the economically active population had received training
by 1976, it appears that the government's targets will be difficult to attain.
(e) Meeting Manpower Training Needs
1.14      The government has introduced new measures to tackle, in a concerted
way, skilled and semi-skilled worker training needs. Responsibility for pre-
service training has been assigned to the MOE while responsibility for retrain-
ing and upgrading is assigned to the Ministry of Labor. To further rationalize
training activities at all levels a National Technical and Vocational Council
has been established. The council is responsible for formulating comprehen-
sive training programs and coordinating training activities in the country.
A newly established Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education in
the MOE will act as the executive branch of the Council.
1.15      The government is giving immediate priority to the development of
vocational training centers--industrial, agricultural and commercial--offering
two-year post-basic education programs for the training of skilled workers.
Current plans visualize the establishment by the MOE of about 14 centers with
a combined output of about 2,800 annually. Three of these centers would be
provided under the proposed project. The two existing industrial training
centers under the Ministry of Labor, one of which is being expanded with
assistance under the first education project, will provide an additional output
of about 400 annually. Skilled and semi-skilled workers for the agricultural
sector are currently being trained at two centers under the Ministry of



- 5-
Agriculture, with an annual output of 200. Five additional centers are
proposed--three of them being financed under the first IDA education project,
one included in the currently proposed project and a fifth to be established
through bilateral assistance--with a combined annual output of 850. These
institutions will be used as extension centers under a proposed agricultural
extension service currently being organized by the Ministry of Agriculture.
For the important fisheries sector, a new center, with an output of 120, is
planned for Mukalla, where the main bulk of fishermen are located; the exist-
ing center at Aden, which was dependent on an input of secondary graduates,
has not proved successful.
1.16      Expansion plans at the technician level are modest.  The three
existing institutions (Malla Technical Institute, Aden, Nasser College of
Agriculture, Lahej and Commercial Institute, Aden) will be expanded to
increase the output of technicians from about 450 annually to about 700.
Educational Issues
1.17      As a result of a basically sound administrative structure and a
dedicated and industrious staff, the quantitative development of the education
system since independence has been remarkable. Furthermore, the reform mea-
sures are well directed towards meeting structural deficiencies in the educa-
tional system and provide a satisfactory framework for its further development.
However, problems and deficiencies remain. These relate broadly to technical
manpower training, the quality of education and the financial capability to
meet expansion plans.
(a) Manpower Training
1.18      Achievement of economic growth targets are dependent to a major
degree on the availability of the necessary technical manpower. An order of
magnitude of the anticipated shortfall in the supply of such manpower is
indicated by the following table:



- 6 -
Manpower Requirements (1978-87)
Additional Annual Output
Average             First   Proposed    Other
Annual   Output    IDA        IDA      Proposed
Require-   from   Project  Project   Projects
ments    System   (1981    (1983        (1985    Shortfall
Category        (1978-87)  (1976)  onward)  onward)   onward)   (rounded)
Technicians           1,220       460      20         0        240          500
of which:
Industrial            500       140      0         0         100          250
Agricultural
& Fisheries          240       110     20         0          60           50
Commercial            480       210       0        0          80          200
Clerical &
Skilled Workers      8,700    1,250    300        500       1,950        4,700
of which:
Non-agricultural   4,700        500    150       180         750        3,100
Agricultural
& Fisheries        1,300       370     90       110         500          200
Clerical            2,700       380     60       210         700        1,400
1.19      At the technician level, some alleviation of the problem could
be achieved in areas requiring less extensive technical training, such as
commercial education, by the provision of some specializations in general
secondary schools, thereby also helping to absorb the surplus output of those
schools. Such provision is being made experimentally in two secondary schools
under the first IDA-assisted education project. A large number of industrial
technicians will also continue to be trained abroad through bilateral programs,
and a declining but still significant number of expatriate technicians will be
provided through bilateral sources. Pending the availability of funds to
permit further expansion of training institutions, the proposed output will
need to be supplemented by project-related training such as that to be intro-
duced by the Public Corporation for Electric Power under the first IDA power
project.
1.20      The shortage of skilled and semi-skilled workers is likely to
prove particularly acute. To assist in meeting this shortfall, an extensive
expansion of current and planned on-the-job and part-time upgrading training
schemes is an immediate need. Such an expansion would contribute to reducing
the shortfall indicated above. It is of vital importance in this respect that
coordination arrangements between the Ministries of Education and Labor should
ensure the sharing of facilities and staff, through multiple shifts, towards
meeting pre-service and in-service training needs (para 2.03). Provision for
both pre-service and in-service training is included in the centers under the



currently proposed project. These measures can at best provide only a short-
term solution and will need to be supplemented by the provision of additional
training facilities as soon as resources will permit.
(b) Quality of Education
1.21      School Facilities.  According to government estimates, more than
50% of school buildings are unsatisfactory. Some 30% of schools are housed
in converted hotels, army barracks and residential houses. It is estimated
that about 75% of primary schools are without any furniture. Educational aids
are almost non-existent. Plans aimed at redressing this deficiency have not
yet been formulated.
1.22      Teachers.  Sixty-eight percent of primary teachers, 67% of lower
secondary teachers and 30% of upper secondary teachers are unqualified by
government standards--generally minimum qualifications require three years
post-lower secondary training for primary school teachers and two years and
four years post-secondary training for lower secondary and upper secondary
teachers respectively. Some 65% of upper secondary teachers are expatriates.
Furthermore, because of poor quality training facilities and the limited
provision for pedagogical training and practice in teaching, the quality of
training is low. Even with the realization of government plans for the
expansion and upgrading of teacher training facilities, the incidence of
unqualified teachers at the unity school level is likely to persist into the
mid 90's and to increase in absolute terms. In the meantime in-service
training of teachers is concentrated on orienting teachers to the new unity
school programs and upgrading of unqualified teachers is not currently being
conducted. While the government proposes to provide upgrading programs on a
regional basis, considerable strengthening of the Institute of In-service
Training in Aden, as well as augmentation of training resources at the regional
level, will be necessary if the programs are to prove effective. The current
provision for teacher supervision and guidance at all educational levels is
also weak. Considerable improvements could be effected by assigning a substan-
tial number of "pioneer" teachers--instructors for the unity school reorienta-
tion programs--to the MOE's Department of Technical Supervision, to which they
are now temporarily assigned. These "pioneer" teachers could play an important
role in the implementation of the regional teacher upgrading programs.
1.23      Textbook Production.  Until recently PDRY has been dependent on
textbooks, supplied by other Arab countries, which are inadequately related to
curricula needs. The Education Research Center (ERC) of the MOE has started
to develop new curricula and related textbooks and, due to inadequate overall
printing capacity in the country, plans to have its own printing press.
However, the ERC has limited professional, technical and budgetary resources.
The availability of technical advice, the training of textbook writers, the
preparation of teachers in the use of textbooks and the allocation of ade-
quate budgetary resources for the establishment of the printing press and
for production and distribution of textbooks are major considerations.
1.24      Educational Efficiency.  The above-mentioned deficiencies are
considered to greatly aggravate the socio-economic and cultural factors



-8-
resulting in the high wastage rates--only 50% of those enteting compiet_-
the course at the primary school level and 33% at secondary level. Annual
dropout rates are particularly high in the lower classes of the primary
school, ranging between 15% and 25%.
1.25      Literacy Program.  The effectiveness of this program is constrained
by a shortage of teachers, supervisors and books, lack of teaching aids and
reading materials for follow-up, and irrelevant curricula. The Directorate
General of Literacy and Adult Education lacks specialized personnel in plan-
ning, evaluation and training.
(c) Education Finance
1.26      It appears likely that the ceiling in education expenditures will
shortly be reached. In 1976, education absorbed about 14% of total expendi-
tures (18% of recurrent expenditures and 6% of capital expenditures); edu-
cation expenditures as a percentage of GDP amounted to 6.6%. Expenditures
are at present deflated because of very low unit costs which will inevitably
rise with needed quality improvements. Total expenditures would also sub-
stantially increase through the implementation of new policies and on a
conservative estimate could represent about 9% of GDP by 1985, with recurrent
expenditures on education representing about 6.6% of GDP. 1/ This relatively
high level of expenditure for education is in line with the government's
investment priorities but does raise the question whether the country would
be able to sustain such an allocation of resources to education for a conti-
nued period, leading to the need for determining priorities within available
resources.
1.27      The government is aware of the financial problems it faces in
trying to achieve its education development targets. Financial constraints
are unlikely to militate against the effective implementation of the voca-
tional training program, in view of the priority the government attaches to
this program and the relatively small percentage of the education recurrent
budget (about 4%) to be devoted to the program as planned. The main constraint
is likely to be faced, however, at the basic education (unity school) level,
which is expected to account for about 70% of recurrent costs. Given the
limited financial resources of the country, some compromise between quanti-
tative expansion and qualitative improvements appears necessary.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.28      IDA lending in the education sector in PDRY is relatively new.
The first credit (US$5.4 million) was approved in June 1974. The project
was designed to (i) upgrade the quality of the school system by providing
two primary teacher training institutes and introducing prevocational cur-
ricula into three lower secondary and two upper secondary schools, (ii)
1/   Comparison with anticipated 1985 total government expenditures would
be more meaningful but estimates of the latter are not yet available.



- 9 -
support institution building by providing needed expertise and advisory
service to strengthen curriculum development capabilities at the Ministry of
Education, and to undertake a building survey to develop the standards and
methods for the design and construction of schools, (iii) provide facilities
to train semi-skilled and skilled workers which are urgently needed for the
expected development of the agricultural and industrial sectors, and (iv)
introduce two rural development centers in semi-nomadic and cooperative
farming areas of the country.
1.29      Physical execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily
though about two years behind schedule mainly due to delays in the (i)
negotiations of contracts with the consultant architects and with Unesco for
technical assistance and (ii) architectural design development which was
interrupted as a result of the introduction of education reforms. The new
educational structure (para 1.06) and related curricula (para 1.09) intro-
duced as from 1976-77 were significantly different from those for the project
schools and required prolonged discussions with the government on their
applicability for the project schools. Following agreement with the govern-
ment on the new curricula for the project lower secondary and upper secondary
schools, the educational objectives of the project are now being met satis-
factorily. The technical assistance component has not played the expected
part in curriculum development due to delays in recruiting suitable experts;
the necessary assistance in this respect has been provided, however, from
bilateral sources.
1.30      In view of the relatively limited expansion of technical and voca-
tional education compared to rapidly developing general education (para 1.05)
the proposed second project would support the government's priority of estab-
lishing a network of vocational training centers, to meet skilled and semi-
skilled worker training needs. Continuing support will be necessary in this
area and in the development and expansion of middle level technician training.
In basic education the emphasis should be on quality improvements in teacher
training and upgrading, including instructor training for literacy programs,
together with the provision of support material for such programs, as well as
on upgrading of school facilities.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the PDRY government following an
IDA reconnaissance mission in February 1977 and a subsequent IDA reconnaissance
and preparation assistance mission in August 1977. The project was appraised
by Messrs. R. Savas (agricultural educator, mission leader), W. Hobbs (techni-
cal educator) and J. St. Germain (architect) in January 1978. An industrial
vocational training center (VTC) proposed in the 6th Governorate was deleted
by the appraisal mission because (i) the stage of development of the 6th
Governorate does not warrant establishing an industrial VTC and (ii) suffi-
cient electric power does not exist in the area, and is not expected to be



- 10 -
available before the late 1980's. Due to the government's financial constraints,
and upon its request during the negotiations, an additional industrial VTC was
also deleted.
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The proposed project would establish three vocational training
centers to assist in meeting urgent skilled and semi-skilled workers' training
needs in the industrial, agricultural and commercial sectors. Project institu-
tions would be located in regional growth centers in line with the government's
policy of regional development and would reduce regional inequalities in
vocational training opportunities. To provide training opportunities for
those living in the more remote low density areas, boarding places would be
provided for such students, amounting to about 50% of total student places.
The project would also reflect the government's policy of increasing the role
of women in the economic life of the country by providing for the participa-
tion of female students in all proposed training programs, ranging from a
minimum of 15% in industrial training to 75% in commercial training. The
project would comprise:
(a) Construction, equipment and furniture for:
Capacity           Estimated
Institutions             Grades         Academic  Boarding   Annual Output
Vocational Training
Centers (VTC)
(i)  Industrial         9-10 and            250         100           115
3rd Governorate   evening classes                                 65
(ii)  Agricultural       9-10 and            250         150           110
2nd Governorate   ungraded              50                       200
(iii)  Commercial         9-10 and            300         150           135
5th Governorate   evening classes                                 75
(b) Technical Assistance related to above (3 man-years of fellow-
ships).
2.03      The project VTCs would constitute the first phase of the network
of vocational training centers, being established by the MOE to meet skilled
and semi-skilled worker training needs. Close collaboration among the various
.inistries and public corporations involved in vocational training will be
uiecessary to avoid wasteful duplication, to ensure that the most urgent
training needs are met, and that all training facilities are used in the most
effective way for pre-service and in-service training. At present the training
needs and activities of the various ministries are coordinated by the National
Technical and Vocational Council. However, the Council of Ministers is
presently considering to assign the responsibility for the coordination and



- 11 -
implementation of all pre-service and in-service technical and vocational
education to the MOE. The government has provided an assurance that the
National Technical and Vocational Council would continue to discharge the
responsibility for coordinating the needs of various ministries and public
corporations for vocational training at all VTCs and for establishing a
system of priorities in satisfying such needs, or alternatively, that the
responsibility would be discharged by the MOE in the event that overall
responsibility for coordination of training is assigned to the MOE by the
Council of Ministers.
2.04      The VTCs would provide two-year post-basic education (grades 9 and
10) day courses. The industrial and commercial centers would also provide the
regular day program in evening classes and special upgrading courses. The
agricultural center would have additional accommodation to provide short
courses for farmers. To ensure the continuing relevance of the training
programs, it is essential that close contacts be developed and maintained
with the industries and organizations concerned with the employment of the
graduates. The government has provided an assurance that the Education
Research Center (ERC) of the MOE would maintain adequate consultation with
local and other appropriate interests to ensure and continue the relevance of
the curricula of the vocational training centers. A system of continuous
evaluation, including a tracer system would be developed to assure continuing
relevance of the training programs for related economic sectors, and for
analysis of job placement and performance. The government has provided an
assurance that information on this system would be exchanged with the Associa-
tion not later than December 31, 1980 to permit the Association's review and
comments and that the results of tracer studies would be transmitted to the
Association periodically over five years following the first outputs from the
project institutions, as required for project evaluation.
Industrial Training Center
2.05      The project would provide one industrial training center, at Zengibar,
Third Governorate, with an enrollment of 250 (about 15% girls) in two-year
courses. Additional evening class enrollments would cater to a minimum of 130
students. Boarding facilities for 100 would be provided. Beginning in 1983,
the center would have a combined annual output in day and evening courses of
about 180 skilled workers from the various priority programs.
2.06      The center would offer programs in automotive mechanics, general
metal mechanics, masonry and tile, electrical installation and carpentry. The
programs would relate to the agriculturally-oriented Third Governorate and its
rapidly developing construction and transportation needs.
2.07      The curriculum is about equally divided between theory and practice,
a proper balance for this type and level of instruction. Additionally, all
students would intern for eight weeks in appropriate public sector industries
during the vacation period between the first and second years of training.



- 12 -
Satisfactory curricula and course syllabi are being developed by the voca-
tional division of the Malla Technical Institute, assisted by representa-
tives from industry.
2.08      The 22 instructors required are currently in training in the
Malla Technical Institute. A six-month internship abroad would be required
for the director of the center.
Agricultural Training Center
2.09      The center would be established at Saber in the Wadi Tuban Delta,
Second Governorate, one of the important agricultural areas in PDRY and the
site of the proposed IDA-financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 768). The center would be located on a ten acre site adjacent to a
state farm (Mugahed) which would be available for supplementary practice
training. The center would provide for (i) two-year courses with an enroll-
ment of 250 (about 20% girls) and an annual output of about 110 skilled
agricultural workers for employment by state farms, agricultural cooperatives,
other agricultural agencies and agro-industries and (ii) short courses in
modern agricultural production techniques for about 200 adult farmers per
year. The project would provide boarding accommodations for 150 trainees to
be recruited from remote areas.
2.10      Satisfactory curricula and syllabi are currently being developed by
the Nasser College of Agriculture in Lahej, Second Governorate. About one
sixth of the time would be devoted to general subjects during both the first
and second year of the program. Curriculum for technical subjects would
consist of about 30% theoretical and 70% practical training. Second year
students would undergo training in five specializations: (i) Horticulture and
Agronomy, (ii) Plant Protection and Bee-Keeping, (iii) Animal Production, (iv)
Dairy and Food Technology and (v) Farm Mechanization. Each group of students
would intern for eight weeks in appropriate institutions during the vacation
period between the first and second years of training. Of the 20 instructors
required, 12 are currently being trained in the Nasser College of Agriculture,
and the remaining eight will begin training in 1978-79. About 2-1/2 man-years
of short-term (six-month) internships abroad would be required for the
director of the center and the two instructors in each of the programs of
dairy and food processing and farm mechanization.
Commercial Training Center
2.11      The project would provide for one commercial training center having
an annual output of about 210 beginning in 1983, representing about 10% of
the anticipated annual output of skilled clerical workers at that time. The
training center would be located in Mukalla, the capital of the Fifth Gover-
norate, and would have an enrollment of 300 (75% girls) in two year (grades
9-10) programs of training for secretaries and bookkeepers. An additional 175
students would be enrolled in evening classes of the same duration. Boarding
facilities for 150 would be provided to cater for the needs of students from



- 13 -
other cities in the governorate and from the Sixth Governorate. The location
of this center in Mukalla is in recognition of the commercial importance of
its role as the country's second largest city, its increasing importance as
the center of rapidly developing fisheries and related industries, and as the
physical and commercial gateway city to the agriculturally important Wadi
Hadramaut region and to the Sixth Governorate.
2.12      To assure the proper curriculum balance required for realistic
job preparation, about 70% of the time would be devoted to technical theory
and practice. Satisfactory curricula and course syllabi have been developed
by the teaching staff of the Commercial Institute in Aden. The 21 teachers
required would be recruited from among graduates of the Commercial Institute
who have had sufficient business experience, and who would be enrolled in
a satisfactory program of pre-service pedagogical training. No problems are
anticipated in their recruitment. As this center would be modelled closely
after the vocational division of the successfully operating Commercial Insti-
tute, technical assistance for staff and administrative development would not
be required.
Technical Assistance
2.13      As curriculum and course syllabi, detailed equipment and furniture
lists and specifications are being prepared by qualified staff of the existing
institutions, no technical assistance experts would be necessary for the
implementation of the proposed project. The project would include, however,
3 man-years of fellowship training for the instructors and directors of the
centers (Annex 1, Table 2.1) to be financed by the government through bi-
lateral agreements. The government has prepared a fellowship program accept-
able to the Association for internship training of the instructors in certain
designated disciplines and for directors of the institutions and has made
arrangements for the necessary training in the German Democratic Republic
under its bilateral assistance program with that country. The government
has also provided the necessary assurances that in the event that financing of
the fellowship program is not provided under bilateral agreements the govern-
ment would make the necessary funds available from its own resources.
Because selected fellows should be trained abroad sufficiently in advance of
the opening of the institutions so that they would be available for the
installation of equipment and for the preparation and execution of teaching
programs, the government has provided an assurance that all instructors and
training center directors under the fellowship program would be sent abroad
for internship training no later than October 31, 1980.



- 14 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project, exclusive
of import duties and taxes which are not applicable to development projects,
is estimated at YD 1.5 million or US$4.4 million equivalent. The estimated
total cost and foreign exchange components by main project items are sum-
marized below:
% of
YD Millions             US$ Millions        Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Industrial Vocational
Training Center, Zengibar  0.25    0.18    0.43   0.75    0.52    1.27    37.6
Agricultural Vocational
Training Center, Saber       0.23    0.18    0.41   0.63    0.53    1.16    34.3
Commercial Vocational
Training Center, Mukalla   0.19    0.12    0.31   0.55    0.35    0.90    26.6
Technical Assistance           0.00    0.01    0.01   0.01    0.04    0.05          1.5
Baseline Costs                 0.67    0.49    1.16   1.94    1.44    3.38   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                     0.06    0.06    0.12   0.18    0.14    0.32         9.4
Price Increase               0.16    0.08    0.24   0.46    0.24    0.70    20.7
Subtotal                   0.22    0.14    0.36   0.64    0.38    1.02    30.1
Total Project Cost           0.89    0.63    1.52   2.58    1.82    4.40



- 15 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
YD Millions            US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic & Communal
Facilities                 0.36    0.18    0.54   1.04    0.53    1.57    46.4
Boarding Facilities          0.17    0.08    0.25   0.49    0.23    0.72    21.3
Site Development             0.02    0.01    0.03   0.06    0.03    0.09         2.7
Professional Services        0.03    0.00    0.03   0.09    0.00    0.09         2.7
Subtotal                   0.58    0.27    0.85   1.68    0.79    2.47    73.1
Furniture                    0.05    0.05    0.10   0.13    0.13    0.26         7.7
Equipment                    0.04    0.16    0.20   0.12    0.48    0.60    17.7
Subtotal                   0.09    0.21    0.30   0.25    0.61    0.86    25.4
Technical Assistance         0.00    0.01    0.01   0.01    0.04    0.05         1.5
Baseline Cost                0.67    0.49    1.16   1.94    1.44    3.38   100.0
Contingencies                0.22    0.14    0.36   0.64    0.38    1.02    30.1
Total Project Cost         0.89    0.63    1.52   2.58    1.82    4.40
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the pro-
posed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and
detailed estimates of other projects of similar character. Furniture and
equipment costs are based on current CIF unit prices and adjusted upward to
include local transportation and installation. Costs per student place, which
compare well with those for similar institutions in recent Bank projects, are
satisfactory and appropriate to the planned student enrollments (Annex 1,
Table 3.2). Cost of the technical assistance component is based on prevailing
international costs of fellowship training abroad. Baseline cost estimates
have been adjusted to reflect the anticipated price at the scheduled date of
negotiations.
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to about 10% of the esti-
mated cost of civil works, furniture and equipment and 5% of the estimated



- 16 -
cost of technical assistance. The project cost also includes price escalation
contingencies calculated for the period beginning December 1, 1978, and in
accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation (Annex 1, Chart 2). In
view of differences in prevailing rates of price escalation for local costs and
international market prices, escalation contingencies were estimated separately
for local and foreign costs (Annex 1, Table 3.1). Prices are expected to
increase during the project implementation period by a weighted total of about
20.8% for civil works, 15.2% for furniture, 15.2% for equipment, and 10.2% for
technical assistance. Accordingly, total price increases are estimated at
about 20.7% of baseline cost.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$1.8 million equivalent or about 41.4% of the total project cost.  The cal-
culations of the foreign exchange component are based on the expectation that
(a) all civil works and all of the professional services will be awarded to
local firms, (b) all equipment will be directly imported, and (c) about 75% of
the furniture will be awarded to foreign suppliers. The resulting foreign
exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows: (i) civil
works, 33%; (ii) furniture, 52%; (iii) equipment, 80%; and (iv) technical
assistance, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed credit of US$4.0 million would equal 91% of the total
cost of the project and would finance 92% of the total estimated construction
cost and 100% of the cost of furniture and equipment of the project. The
balance of total project costs would be financed by the government. The
proposed financial plan is summarized below:
Government               IDA                Total
US$       % of       US$       % of        US$     % of
million financing million financing million total
Construction                0.18       8         2.20      92        2.38       54
Furniture                   0.00       0         0.26    100          0.26       6
Equipment                   0.00       0         0.60    100         0.60       14
Consultant Architects       0.09     100         0.00       0        0.09        2
Technical Assistance /a   0.05       100         0.00       0        0.05        1
Baseline Cost            0.32        9         3.06     91         3.38       77
Contingencies:
Physical                 0.03        9         0.29     91         0.32        7
Price Increase           0.05        7         0.65     93         0.70       16
Total Contingencies        0.08        8         0.94      92        1.02       23
Total Project Cost         0.40        9         4.00      91        4.40      100
/a   The cost of technical assistance would be met by the government through
bilateral arrangements or from its own resources.



- 17 -
Recurrent Costs
3.07      When fully operational, in 1982, the project institutions are esti-
mated to require YD 0.12 million annually in recurrent costs, corresponding
to about 0.6% of projected public recurrent expenditure on education in 1983.
In view of the high priority of the proposed project, the government can be
expected to meet these expenditures.
Implementation
3.08      The overall status of project preparation is satisfactory.  Good
progress has been made in curriculum development, preparation of furniture
and equipment liscs including specifications, and development of schematic
architectural drawings. Construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools
are scheduled to be completed by August 1981 while the technical assistance
component would be completed by June 1981 (Implementation Schedule, Annex 1,
Chart 2). This schedule is considered to be reasonable and within the cap-
ability of the government and contractors. To allow sufficient time for
submission of the final withdrawal applications, the Closing Date would be
June 30, 1982.
3.09      Administration.  The Project Unit (PU) established for the first
IDA education project in the MOE, responsible to the Deputy Minister for
Higher and Specialized Education of the MOE, would also be responsible for the
implementation of this project. The PU has performed effectively during the
implementation of the first project and their experience would facilitate the
administration of this project. The PU would be assisted by the General
Director of Technical and Vocational Education in the implementation of the
educational aspects of the project and by a recently appointed procurement
officer in the MOE in equipment and furniture procurement.
3.10      Architectural Services.  Under an agreement between the MOE and
the Ministry of Construction (MOC),preparation of designs and construction
drawings for all project institutions, together with supervision of con-
struction and follow-up maintenance control, will be undertaken by the
Design Unit of the MOC. The staff of the Design Unit comprising five
architects, ten engineers, three quantity surveyors and three planners are
well qualified to carry out this work. Furthermore, their overall workload,
including the scheduled work on the project, is well within their capacity.
The PU would be responsible for ensuring satisfactory performance by the
Design Unit and for the preparation of civil works bid documents, the eva-
luation of bids and recommendation of awards. Satisfactory schematic designs
based on agreed briefs have already been prepared for all project items by the
Design Unit. It is expected that construction drawings will be finalized by
January 1979.
3.11      Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Preliminary furniture and equipment
lists have been prepared by the MOE with assistance from staff of the three
technical institutes (para 1.16). The lists were reviewed by the appraisal
mission and were found satisfactory. It is expected that the detailed lists



- 18 -
together with technical specifications and related bid documents will be
completed by March 1979.
3.12      Sites.  Sites for the project institutions have been acquired.
The mission inspected all sites and concluded that they are satisfactory.
3.13      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to US$3.2 million
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding.  Because of the scattered nature of the works and the
relatively small cost of individual items it is not expected that foreign
contractors will be interested in bidding. Therefore, it is anticipated that
all civil works contracts would be awarded to local firms.  In the event of
foreign bids being received qualified local civil works contractors would be
allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign
contractors.  Equipment and furniture items (amounting to US$1.1 million
including contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. As there are no local suppliers or
agents, contracts for all equipment would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Custom made furniture for workshops and small groups of furniture items for
which ICB would not be practical would be procured under normal government
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and would include quotations from at
least three manufacturers or suppliers. The total value of furniture so
procured would not exceed US$0.09 million equivalent which would represent
about 25% of estimated furniture costs including contingency allowances. In
ICB comparisons, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties
applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
Draft tender and contract documents for furniture/equipment and civil works
would be forwarded for IDA review and approval; IDA approval of tender evalua-
tion documents would be required prior to the award of all contracts for
furniture and equipment under ICB and for civil works contracts. IDA reim-
bursement for all other contracts would be contingent upon IDA approval of
tender evalution documents subsequent to contract awards.
Disbursements
3.14      Disbursements (Annex 1, Table 3.3) would be on the basis of:
(i) civil works: 89% of total expenditure;
(ii) furniture and equipment: 100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of
local expenditure exfactory and 85% of expenditure for imported
items procured locally.
These percentages would be adjusted as required to assure continued financing
for each category for the implementation period.



- 19 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01      The expected benefits of the proposed project would be:  (i) the
establishment of a network of vocational training institutions which will
produce annually about 500 urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers
for the industrial, agricultural, commercial and service sectors. The supply
from the project institutions would meet about 6% of the annual vocational
training needs of the country, and in the process assist in providinig a job
oriented alternative to secondary education for urban and rural youths (para
1.09); (ii) a reduction of regional inequities in the availability of technical
training opportunities through the dispersed location of the project schools
among various outlying governorates. The provision of boarding facilities for
about 50% of the students would also increase vocational training opportuni-
ties for pupils originating from the remote areas (para 2.02); (iii) to assist
the government in achieving its objectives of increasing the role of women in
the economic life of the country by providing for the participation of female
students in all proposed training programs (para 2.02).
Risks
4.02      In view of progress made to date in project development and the
government's commitment to the speedy implementation of the project, no
undue risks or delays in project implementation are foreseen.
Key Implementation Dates
4.03      The critical activities in project implementation and the expected
completion dates indicated in the following table (achievable with the pro-
posed project management arrangements) should be confirmed by the government
to serve as a basis for project implementation and monitoring.
Civil Works
^ompletion of design development drawings                June 15, 1978
Completion of final drawings                             January 31, 1979
Commencement of construction                            August 1, 1979
ComDletion of construction                               June 1, 1981
EGIlipment and Furniture
Completion of final lists with specifications           March 31, 1979
Completion of installation of major equipment
and furniture                                         August 1, 1981
Technical Assistance
Commencement of fellowship training program              October 1, 1980
End of fellowship program                                June 1, 1981



- 20 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIOIS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(i) the National Technical and Vocational Council would continue
to discharge the responsibility for coordinating the needs
of various ministries and public corporations for vocational
training at all vocational training centers and for establish-
ing a system of priorities in satisfying such needs, or alter-
natively, the responsibility would be discharged by the MOE
in the event that overall responsibility for coordination of
training is assigned to the MOE by the Council of Ministers
(para 2.03).
(ii) the Education Research Center of the MOE would maintain
adequate consultation with local and other appropriate
interests to ensure and continue the relevance of curricula
of the vocational training centers (para 2.04).
(iii) an evaluation system including a tracer system for analysis
of job placement and performance, would be developed for
all project institutions and forwarded for the Association's
review not later than December 31, 1980 to permit the Associa-
tion's comments thereon; the results of tracer studies should
be transmitted to the Association periodically over five
years following first outputs from the project institutions
(para 2.04);
(iv) in the event that financing of the fellowship program is not
provided under bilateral agreements the government would
make the necessary funds available from its own resources
(para 2.13).
(v) all instructors and training center directors under the fel-
lowship program would be sent abroad for internship training
no later than October 31, 1980 (para 2.13);
5.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a credit of US$4.0
million to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on standard terms.
.



* * 
STRUCTURE OF NEW EDUCATION SYSTEM
(Phased introduction from 1976-77)
Arts        University          Faculties
Academic                                C       
Higher College of Education (Degree)
Science 
Higher College of Education (Diploma)
Induserial                             - 
Elementary Education (Unity Schools)               Agricultural           I           |Hgher Technical
Higher commercial                                            ta
Higher Studies Abroad
Fisheries
Health
Teacher Training
LEGEND:                                             C >
Vocational Training                        P  -  Preparatory Year
PT - Practical Teaching before certificates
Gradel          2      31           5      6      7    8    lo                   11    12           13
Age       7     8      9    10    11    12       13    14          15    16    17    18            19



- 22 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                             ANNEX I
......... =- ..........=... a=-.                                         Table  1. I
OCTOBER 11, 1978
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GNP/   % GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                   :PRI. :AV.PRI.                         :SEC
DEvoTED:PUBLIC   EDUCATION   :LITER-   PRI.                                                          :STU-
:CAPITA:                                                      :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PACGRESS-: SEC,               :HIGHER:
t       !  AT  : TO EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT   :ACY           :ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN:1ON RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP'ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI.:RAT10 :PER  :RATIO, :
POP. :PRICES: EXP.         TO    :      TO;       :(% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (US$): ONLY)         EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER              CAPITA                        2ER
(1)      (2)    (3)        (4)          (5)         (6)      (7)       (8)      (9)    00)         (11)    :(12)  '(13) :(14)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
-AU_;_T_R_1_A   74   7.5F 4,87OF    5.3Y   8.5EY  24Y  51Y  15Y   99               ge       93D      26D       2.OD      990       510     190   16.85y
CANADA          75  22.8  7,135        7 . 3   16.7    30   37   26    98          99       97        19       2.0       99        90      la     16.00
GERMANY F.REP.75  61.8  6,670          5.0   10.2    31EY 64-- 26EY  99            90       99       23EY      ...       9gy       64Y    22C   20.26Y
JAPAN           75 111.6  4,450        4. 3E  20.7E   40UY 37UY IIUY  99          99D       99C      25        2.08      99C       95XY   20C   24.69Y
NETHERLANDS   75  13.7  5,425          9.4   22.4D   21   39   25    99            95       95        29       2.0        97       so      20      12.00
NEW ZEALAND   73   3.1F 4,28OF    5.2   ...             39   24   29    99         99       99        26       ...       99        67      19     24.00
NORWAY          76   4.0  8,043        7. 2   14.4    54   24   15    99           99       99        16       1.5       99E       62      1 1     11.00
SWEDEN          76   8.2  8,150        8.8   14.0    23   29   12    99            99       99        16                 907       85C     13     30.00C
U.K.            75  56.0  3780         7.1   13.9    26   41   Is    99            99       ...      24        2.0        ...      68      17     2I.OOX
U.S.A.          76 214.6  7,950        5.4   15.8   ...   72** 28    99E    99              99       22                  99        93      19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.1  2.590        2.6   10.4    37   26   21    86B    99              82D      31       2.0        70E       so      27     15.00
IRELAND         74   3.IF 2.39OF    5.1   13-9D   43Y  41Y  14Y   98    IOBXY    99A                 35       ...        95A       65XY   19      IS.47Y
PORTUGAL        75   9.6  1 57 0       4.4   17.8    52   27   13    70            ga       55       21       3.0        70        29      14      7.60
ROMANIA         75  21.2  1,240        4.0    6.4    36   19   i3    98            loix     ...      21       ...        98        49      22     10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2,75OF    2.4B  15.2A   49Y  22Y  15Y   94A   115XY               ...      35A      ...         ...      78XY   30      17.6ey
AFRICA
ALGERIA         77  16.9    99OG    7.5   14.3FY  42   ...  21    35               78X      45        39       4.0       55        26X     13      6.00
BENIN           74   3.IF   13OF    7.2N  36-OY   47D  23D  IOD   IID    44XY    708                 53Y    25.08        438       IIXY   398    0.74Y
BOTSWANA        76   0.7    410        4.0   19.2    53   20   14           3      72X      95       32        3.0       60        i2      22      0.30
BURUNDI         74   3. 7F   ilOF    2.5   19.90   47R  4IR  12R   10              2OX      30?      38       10.0        14        2X     la       t.0
CAMEROON        73   7.4F   28OF    5.9   20.0    3BY  29Y  17Y   ...    74                 ...      51DY                           9      23CY   0.90CY
C.A.R.          74   I.SF   22OF    3.OD  17-OD   568  19B  ...   ...    79XY    25                  69Y      ...         la        BXY   27BY   0.21Y
CHAD            75   4.0    120        3.0   10.0    78   22  ...    15            29XBY   30         658Y   IS.0          a        2XBY  30       O.OIBY
CONGO(B)        74    1.3F   51OF    6.0   19.3    40   32   21    507   133X               63        63       6.0       49        33X     22      3.40
EGYPT           76  38.2    310        5.9N   ...    30   32   25    44            76       80       31        ...       79        45      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA        76  28.0    100        2.8   15.8    28   25   10           7     21       ...       50                  63         6      34
GABON           74   O.5F 2 .54OF    S.OD  20.6D   25D   9D  110    ...   IOOY              25C      46C       5.0        IGA      3tY    21C    O,:igy
GAMBIA'         76   0.5    170        3.3   11.5    46   25        6      10      27       90       33       ...        92        13      25
GHANA           74   9.9F   59OF    ...   19.7Y   43Y  22Y  20YO  ...    6oxy    628                 30Y      ...         148      35XY   16CY   1:;Y
GUINEA          76   4.7    iBOF    4.3NQ ...           30   31   30       ...    3OX       64       45        12F       86'       13X     26      4.00
IVORY COAST   74   6.7F   54OF    6.3   24.7    38Y  37Y  ISY    9A    86XY    57A                   45Y      ...         ...      17XY   25C      1.64Y
KENYA           76  i3.8    240        5.9   26.0    67   23   10    40            So?      SO?      34        6.0       30        Is      27       1.0
LESOTHO         75   1.2 '  160    12.OP  23.0    49   is   20    40              as        so       52        7.ON      81        10      26      1.00
LIBERIA         75   1.5    410        2.4   13.2    27   is   20    73           Ss        ...      35        2.0        ...      12      26      I.IOAY
MADAGASCAR    74   8.8F   20OF    3.2   22.1    51   24   25    40                 6ex      30       63       IS.0       46         9x     26       1.00
MALAWI          77   5.6    140        2. 2    9.3    40   17   22    25           56X      2 1       61       5.0         9        5x    21       0.47
MALI            75   5.7F    9OF         .2M  33-OF   45F  37F  IBF   IOF    22XF           ...       48F    9.5F         5OF       6x     21        ...
MAURITANIA    7 1 1.3F   32OF    4.1Y  20. OY   ...  ... I...   10A                17XY     ...       22A                           3XY   244       ...
12.1    50   26       6    80C    94         99                                     4S      32       I.So
MAURITIUS       76   O.9L   680        4.7                                                            24       4.5
MOROCCO         76  18.2    540        8.1   15.2    39R  48R  13R   28            65X      33       40                   33       17X     22      4.00
NIGERIA         74  75. OF   34OF    4.IDY 24.2DY  23Y  16Y  42Y   ...    49XY              ...       340Y                ...      IOXY   20CY   0.48Y
RWANDA          73   4.IF   IDOF    3.2C  28.00    ...  ...  ...   23              52                51                             2      i3      0.23CY
SENEGAL         76   5.1    390        3.3   26.0    46   34   20    10            32                49       lo,:;      0-       to      21       I.S
SIERRA LEONE  73   3. OF   20OF    3.4   23.4    31   36   30    157    34X                 45       32        4.OE      Gs        13X    21       0.538Y
SOMALIA         75   3.2      110      3.70  10.8Q   490  160  19Q   50?    34K             86       35       10.0       60         3      is      0.10
SUDAN           76  15.9    290        4.5   19.9    4B   36   16    20            34       74       33        3.8       33        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       75   0.5    470        3.8    ---    38   31   19    so            73       71       38        3.8       51        24      22       1.00
IANZANIA        76  15.1    lao        6.6   17.4    42   21   12    80            93X      at       49        6.6         6        4X     19      0.34
TUNISIA         73   5.6F   73OF    6.3   23.4    37   43   is    55               72       SI       41        6.0       3i        i4      21      3.00
UGANDA          75  11.6    230        3.40Y 15.7DY  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A    53xy            ...       34EY     ...        t4A       6XCY  2iA    0.56Y
UPPER VOLTA   74   6.OF   11OF    4.0   23.9    59   is              9      5C     14XY     ...       46Y    IS.OC        20C       2XY   23C    o.tsy
ZAIRE           76  25.6    140        6.0   22.0    49   26   25    15            86X      44       42X       2.0       41        13X    27        I.OOX
ZAMBIA          76   5.1    440        6.8   15.9    54   22   22    39            97X      so       49        7.0       21        16      23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND 7HE CARIBBEAN
---------------------------------
BARBADOS        76   0.2  1 620        8.1   22.1    43   31   16    99    105              99       25        3.0       99        84      20
COSTA RICA    75   2.0    960          5,28  22.7B   578  25B  128   898   109xy    656               298      3.08       580      52XY   25 8   17.15Y
DOM1N1CAN REP.72   4.7F   72OF    3,0   13.9    42   24   22    51                 80       i7        54       3.00,     63        13.5   24        7.00
EL SALVADOR   75   4.0    460          3,6   23.8    61    5 22    609    65C               ...      39cy      ...       39        13XC   21CY   4.35BY
GUATEMALA       73   6. 3F   57OF    1.9   16.0    55   23   14    47              64       26        35       3.0        69        9 -   25        4.09Y
HAITI           76   4. 7    200        1,0    0.0    61   21   11    20B    25F            13        56U      3.0        62        4       ...      0.7
HONDURAS        75   2.9    39OG    4,2G  IS.BG   62G  15G  19G   53               78       30        35       3.0        68       II      17       4.00
JAMAICA         74   2.OF 1,11OF    7,1Y  20.2Y   39Y  32Y  19Y   86              IIIXY     ...       39Y      ...        ...      54XY   19C    6.69DY
MEXICO          75  59.9  1,050         3.IDQ 12.ODQ  51Y  26Y  12Y   76          112XY    31         46       3.0        63       35XY   23A    8.97EY
NlCARAGUA       74   2.3F   70OF    2.5   14.2    6i   13   13    57               65       21        37       2.0        93       17      24       7.00
TRINlDAD & T. 76   i.00 1,875E    3.4N  10.8Q   50E  25E  13E   90C                 81      93        34       2.OQ       49       44      25        ...
SOUTH AMERICA
-------------
BOLIVIA         76   5.8    315F    5.0   17.5F   ... ...   ...   38               178      29D       24       SF         ...       48      IOD
BRAZ I L        75 107.0  1,030        5.0   12.4    42E  20E   37E  64A    86G              ...      27CY      ...       ...      26G      15cy   6.006
CHILE           75  10.3    990        3.BRY 12.5RY  23Y  10Y  SOY-  ...   119xy             ...      35Y       ...       ...      48XY    ...   16.55Y
COLOMBIA        74  23.6F   58OF    3.30Y 21.2DY  44DY 22DY IIY   73    105xy    20                   33Y      4.0        90       36XY   14A    6.67Y
ECUAOOR         75   7i    590        3.7D  27.7C   ...  ...  ...   69    102XY             ...      38C                          38XY   I4C
GUYANA          74   O.SF   51OF    S.BN  14.7Q   47   35   14    83A    92X                 39       33       6,:;                62X    24        ;:O,o
PARAGUAY        74   2.6F   58OF    1.8   11.0    55   13   22    SI               82        26       30        1.9       65       17       i2      5.00
PERU            75  15.4    760         4.2DY 21.7DY  40Y  22Y  ISY   72    iiixy    38               390Y    3.0         70       48XY   230Y  14.4iY
URUGUAY         75   2.8  1,300         2.5   15.3    46   34   20    94           93X       ...      24                  83        ...    10
VENEZUELA            12.OF 2,28OF    4.6   19.9    300  28Q  35Q   77.A.   Si                ...      33-       2.4       ...      33       ...   t7.63CY



- 23 -
COPAATVE=EDUCATION,INDICATORS  (CONTO)                                   ANXIPG 
OCTOBER 11, 197B
I  IGNP/   % GNP  :  TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                 I                   PRI. :AV.PRI.                        : SEC
I       :CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC   EDUCATIGiN   :LITER-   PPFI. tCOMPLF- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-I  SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
:AlT   TO EDU. I  EXP.   RECURRENT    lACY             :ENROLLtTION      :DENTS:SALARY INIION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENPOLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO IRATE FORIPER  :RELATION :FRCM PRI.IRATIO !PER   :RATIO.
IPOP. :PRICES: EXP.         T TO  :      TO :      : (% OF  I NET  :PRI.SCH. TEACH: TO GNP/ !TO SEC.           NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (USS)t ONLY)         EDLI. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS)t (%)  :CYCLE(%):ER             CAPITA                  W %    :% ER  ()
I(I) II(2)        (3)    1   4)  i       (5           (6)    I  7)      (B)    I (9)   I (0)         1 (1     1(2)    (13) 1(I4)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3        160G     1 .8   11 .6    47   19   IS    12         29K       69       37       3.0G        62       ex     17       1 .00
BANGLADESH      73  78,6F    9oF     1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230    5AX               ...      480      .. .   .   ...      23XD   26             
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  16.OF   930F    3.2   14.0D    28   41   22    82               980       94       40      14. 0       84       61C     28      20.OOC
INDIA           75 608. 1     140      2.6VY .,          ..298                    65XY      ...      43A      . . .      ...,    29XY   20AY   2.34EY
* .INDONESIA       74 1 32 .I F 220F    3.9F  I1I .OF   69   21   1 0    606         79X       43       30       2.DG       52       1 9K     1 4     2.00
IRAN            73  33. 4F i,66OF    3.3   12.6    508  188  12B   50             77       74A       32       5.08       BOA      24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.1  i,250        6.7C  16.30R8     ..... ... 26C    93XY              ...      22       ...        ..       35XY  ;26C      B.47Y
JORDAN          73   2 .7F   460F    7.0       8.8    52    15   21    59         91K       78       38       5.0        84       50K     22       4.00
KOREA           75  35.3    560        2.9   16.0R   65   33        2    92D   104K        98        52       3.5        77       58K     38       7.8
LEBANON         72   3.2F 1,070F    3.5   18.0    39   40   10    68              86       65        19       2.0        63       26U     25      23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6      860      6.7   26.0    42   34   15    60C    95              93       32       3.7        78       48      28       3.00
NEPAL           76  12.6F   1hOF    1.1   10.0    29   20   41            19      59        28       31       2.3        64       14      24       0.8
OMAN            72   0.BF 2,300F       1.7N   3.8    96    -   -          20      24X      99        33       7.0        .. .     0.4K     9
PAKISTAN        75  69.2      160      1.6   16.2    45   25   18    21           47X       50       39       2.0        .. .     17X      18     6.00
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.8    47 0       5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32           57?      73P       31      11.0        90       12X7   24       0 .90 7
PHILIPPINES   74  42.2F   380F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87               104X       . ..     34      15.0        ...,    46X       . . .   21 .00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3F 2,450F    2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   109AY    72A                 3iY      .. .       99A      44XY   24       7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.4    720        3.6   6.9       39   25   26    53         89        70       35       2.0        92       45      21      12.00
THAILAND        73  41.9F   350F    4.ONF 20. 7F   65    9   15    82             87X       93C      32       3.0 U    g1C        21K     24       2.00
TURKEY          73  40.2F   900F    5.6CY 20.6CY    .              .  ...  .      B 8Y      ...      34Y      .. .       ...      24Y     27DM    5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.9F   200F    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10              16K       18       36       5.0        75        2K      19     0.055Y
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1.7    280          6.68      .     57   28    8    20         89K       48       30       5.0        94       21K     24      0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                   82    79       77   72 \73    76          84       59        84         5B       63       83      80        74
RANGE:                              (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-          (14-     (13-     (19-       (1.9-    (7-       (.4-    (9-      (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   98)          133X)   99)    69)    25.0 )   99)              80  )  39)   23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER 1                    5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73           94       76        46         7       83        36      25      7.0
MEDIAN'-                 3.9   16.3    45   23   18    50           78        55       36          4       63       17       23      2.3
LOWER I                  3.0   12.4    38   18   12    20           53        30       32          3       43        9      20        .9
SYMBOLS: ...* DATUM UNAVAILABLE               A=1970 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE B=1971                           N=GDP----
7  QUESTIONABLE                     C=1972                      PzINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNSII  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                           Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRD MISSIONS
4.COMBINED WITH PRIMARY            E=1974                     R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 I880 MISSIONS
4.UNDER REVIEW                     F.1975                      S=MDE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/DR UNESCO
G.1976                      T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBCOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X.INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
------------------------------------------------------- -:----------
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUrJTRIES. HOWCVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SI-OULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM COVERNMIENT SOURCES: THE TH
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMAATES DR DATA PROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STAN.DARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECKTH
ACCURACY OP THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMAPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEMA
PRIOGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD SE BORNE IN
MINDO
(1)'EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AN.D "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECCNDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
*(3)'LITERACY RAIES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. ..N NMANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF `LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLO'.ED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)-PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3.4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION By
PUBLIC AND QQASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
()ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLVENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OP STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED By
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 24 -                             ANNEX 1
Table-2.1
PDRY II
Technical Assistance for Fellowship Training
Duration    Total
No.       m/m         m/m
Industrial VTC - ZENGIBAR
Director                              1          6           6
Agricultural VTC - SABER
Director                              1          6           6
Instructors:
Farm Machinery                      2          6         12
Food Processing                     2          6         12
Total                            6                    36 = 3 man-years
.



PDRY II
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS            FURNITURE             EQUIPMENT        PROF. SERVCS.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        TOTAL PROJECT  COST
Local   Foreign        Local  Foreign        Local  Foreign   Local   Foreign         Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign  Total
Contingencies (as % of project cost)
Unforeseen        1                            10.0       10.0         10.0    10.0         10.0    10.0        5.0     5.0           5.0       5.0
Price escalation -/                            23.9      14.7          15.2    15.2         15.2    15.2         -                   10.2      10.2
Project  Cost (without contingencies)
Million dinars                                  0.55      0.27          0.05    0.05         0.04    0.16      0.03    0.00           0.00      0.01        0.67    0.49    1.16
Million US dollars                              1.59     oL  9          0.13    0 13         0.12    0.48       0D09    0.00          0.01      0.04         1.94    1.44    3.38
7% Foreign Exchange                                      33                     52                   80                 0                      80                   42.6
Contingencies (Amounts):
Unforeseen                                                                                                                                                                            M
Million dinars                               0.05      0.03          0.01    0.01        0.00      0.02     0.00    0.00           0.00      0.00         0.06    0.06    0.12
Million US dollars                           0.16      0.08          0.01    0.01        0.01      0.05     0.00    0.00           0.00      0.00        0.18    0.14    0.32
Price escalation
Million dinars                               0.14      0.04          0.01    0.01        0.01      0,03     0.00    0.00           0.00      0.00         0.16    0.08    0.24
Million US dollars                           042       0-13          0_0 2    0    ,02             0.02        00    0.00          0.00      0.01         0.46    o.24    0.70
Subtotal
Million dinars                               0.19      0.07          0.02    0.02        0.01      0.05     O.DO    0.00           0.00      0.00         0.22    0.14    0.36
Million US dollars                           0.58      0.21          fl.03    0.03       0.03      0.13      0.00    0.00          0.00      0.01         0.64    0.38    1.02
% Foreign Exchange                                       26                     52                   80                 0                      80                   38.7
Total Project Cost (with contingencies)
Million dinars                                  0.74      0.34          0.07    0.07        0.05      0.21      0.03    0.00          0.00      0.01         0.89    0.63    1.52
Million US  dollars                             2.17      1.00          0.16    0.16        0.15      0.61      0.09    0.00          0.01      0.05         2.58    1.82    4.40
% Foreign Exchange                                       31                    52                    80                 0                      80                   41.4
Total Contingencies : As h of Total Project Cost 23.2 , as 7 of Project Cost without contingencies  30.1
Exchange Rate : US $1.00 = YD 0.344                  1979             1980             1981
I/ Price escalation (7)               /            L       F        L     F          L      F
Civil works &/           14.4     7.5    14.4   7.0       14.4     7.0
Furniture & equipment-  10.0    10.0       8.0   8.0       8.0     8.0                                                                                             !Z
Technical assistance      7.0     7.0      7.0   7.0       7.0     7.0
at Price escalation for local costs are based on recent trends in materials and labor costs and on government estimates                                                                  -
of future increases as discussed with appraisal mission and confirmed by economic mission;
b/ EMENA Education Division projections based upon most recent years' price increases for similar type furniture
and equipment and projected price increases of several major international suppliers.



ANNEX 1
- 26 -                            Table 3.2
PDRY II
Unit Capital Costs & Areas per Student
Project Institutions
Area       Build-      Furni-      Equip-
Type of facility             Student     ing /1      ture        ment/2  Total
__MS2___           ____-__-----Us $---- --
Industrial Vocational
Training Center(ZENGIBAR):
Academic & Communal            12.1        2,757      200          600   3,557
Boarding                        7.8        1,900      250           36   2,186
Agricultural Vocational
Training Center (SABER):
Academic & Communal             7.9        1,650      178        1,160   2,988
Boarding                        7.8        1,780      233           27   2,040
Commercial Vocational
Training Center (MUKALLA):
Academic & Communal             6.2        1,394      145          280   1,819
Boarding                        7.8       1,955       246           36   2,237
/1 Based on unit cost prices with the regional price differences. Profes-
sional fees and contingencies not included.
/2 Includes kitchen equipment.
r.



PDRY 11
Implementation Schedule
Credit Signing
1977         1         1978                   1979                    1980                                          1982
1  12      3    4l         32  3 42    1                                   22 31    1   2 3 4 A         2 3  4       Rt  2      3 4
(a) Design and Construction                    1
1 .  Sites Selected
2.  Sites Acquired
3.  Preliminary Drawings                                     I t   -
A
4.  Design Development Drawings                                 -___
5.  Bid Documents
6.  Final Drawings and Cost Estimates
7.  Advertise and Issue Documents
8.  Receive, Analyse Awards                                                                     v_'.
A
9.  Building Constructior rl                                                                          __ -              A _____ - t__ -_
10.  Guarantee Period
lbI Furniture
1.  Preliminary Lists                                        _
2.  Final Lists                                                    __:__ji
3.  Specifications and Cost Estirmates                                           _W -At
A
4.  Bid Documents                                                                      - __s
A
5.  Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards
6.  Manufacture, Deliver and Install                                                                           _ _         _       st      _       .
(c)  Equipmsent
1.  Preliminary Lists
2.  Final Lists
3.  Specifications and Cost Estimates                                                  '
4.  Bid Documents                                                                 __        AII1
5.  Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards                                                                           F __  _ _
A,
6.  Manuifacture, Deliver and Install                                                                         tAU ____A IA tAzAM  _.  
(d  Trechnical Assistance
It,j
A   Indicates IDA Approval and/or Review                                                                                World Bank - 19073



Annex 1
Table 3.3
- 28 -
P.D.R.Y. II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Calendar                 Disbursements    Disbursements          Balance
FY      Year      Semester!/   Amount   %        Amount    %         Amount   %
79            First Year
1            0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         4.0    100.0
79
2            0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         4.0    100.0
80            Second Year
1            0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         4.0    100.0
80
2            0.4   10.0        0.4    10.0         3.6     90.0
81            Third Year
1            0.8   20.0        1.2    30.0         2.8     70.0
81
2            1.4   35.0        2.6    65.0         1.4     35.0
82            Fourth Year
1            1.2   30.0        3.8    95.0         0.2      5.0
82
2            0.2    5.0        4.0   100.0         0.0      0.0
83
1/ Beginning from date of Credit Agreement.



- 29 -                                       ANNEX 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   Education in a Dynamic Perspective:  Priorities and Projects,
Unesco, June 1976.
2.   Education Sector Memorandum, IBRD/EMENA, April 29, 1977.
3.   The Technical and Professional Education, PDRY Ministry of Education.
4.   Memorandum on the Economic Position and Prospects of the PDRY, IBRD
Report No. 1231a-YDR, October 11, 1976.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Reconnaissance and Preparation Assistance Mission, Office Memorandum
(Mission Report),August 11, 1977.
2.   Project Brief, PDRY Second Education (Vocational Training) Project,
December 28, 1977.
3.   Evolving Curriculum for Community Development and Non-Formal Education,
Dr. Baij Nath Singh, Unesco Specialist,July 1977.
4.   Administration, Field Activities, Training Programs of the Two Rural
Development Centers at Gaar and Saywun, Report by Constantinos L. Phocas,
FAO consultant, August 1977.
C.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Schematic drawings.
2.   Educational working papers.
3.   Architectural working papers.
4.   Contingency allowance calculation.
5.   C.P.M. schedule.
6.   Draft equipment lists.
7.   Ministry of Construction cost data and building materials prices.






IBRD 13668R
SEPTEMBER 1978
TURKEY    _,          --  U4S.                                                                                                  50'
,,59S.,BE-4, - 
A.~~~~~~~~~~
IRAQ        IA                                                                                                                                                                                  0
lO,,RQ.    AN                         t"tUWPEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATiC REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN20
~tELLZO/NE           1    t SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
mm E 1 _>2SAUDI ARABIA   AE7
_ .r  tX          y/~~~~OMAy   \-/
SUDAN           / !
oi sEoE@5                  100            1150                             PI
,1ETRIOPIA\, 0-'OdBoR    ARAB IAN                                   MILES
y   O   510      1p100    150       200      250
KILOMETERS
Th,s -p has br,-prdbY IbWerdk Amkff,  IAs-sIvEO,the co                                /
-18    {   \             /             b~~~~~~~~oOnmrs s,howm on th,s mePdo nol mp/Km ,,, pO d, of ,h WorBrerl nknd,Ir;  /- _                        m                         xKt  
Jt.!r0r0 mr( ahh/rrlprh nydgm onrorro . .f mr.rr.rrorr  -do-omr mrr or                  /          -             N              OMAN
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                      )           S o nom Shan 
tsliS$25fu   r  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~~~'~~~          /      /!     ~~~~~~~~~///   *                                             Habrug)\~~~~~~~~~~Hair
( ,dah                                                                                            5Thamud
- 0\ j tVSa dah                                                   -         .          / - y   ,   ot7er  / Tamis
YEMEN                        j/                    Zama *-
%  t  A R A B              t        /     0 Al-Abr          ,                               'Ghyh
REPUBLIC                                                 -_b
tv) k                                       /                       k * S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tn    a h 5,
clt  l \   ~ \_   ___/  ~tMarib  /   t   ~  *    haura f   ,                      .             Qishn /
h, tE   \               _f-XANA'A                  k       /7OShabwah                               ISa                                              y
Boaix)AI Hib 
HodeiAl hyn'ol                                              (OAtaq,,                                                                      At    INDUSTRIAL VOCATIONAL CENTER
-8)  )rRI 00 )*@-  n   6/^~f  tMuk                                        AGORICULTRAL VOCATIONAL CENTER
A zzan             A MkoIgU                                   COMMERCIAL VOCATIONAL CENTER
-14                                           M /u.kayr3s/ Al Mahfidb    'go  a  fa h      0;/                                             o    NATIONALCAPITALSANDOTHERCITIES           14_
Muk.yds LI do /                                                                                               PRIMARY ROADS
:h       'o    BOq AmL Ayn        Wadi Sobib *.
0. )  ,<   o i ;Naqeel4aI Al    A       -                                                                        .   PROPOSED ROADS
Taiz ; 0    us ymi}u r   A  l                                                                                                      AGRICULTRALAREAS
a  uk                                                                                           ......... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIeS AND NUMBERS
AmFarsh    Gahejde                         G  ,J / f    Qf        A  D  fN-                                                  INTERNATtONAL BOUNDARIES
a    1,_   _   ADEN   46        48                                5O.                                52
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SF                                                                                                                                    I  



