Document of              FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2420-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
November 29, 1978
This document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their ofkWi duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977            July 1978
Currency Unit         =      Yemeni Dinars (YD)          YD
US$1        -       YD 0.345                   0.345
YDI        =       US$ 2.90                   2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOE        =         Ministry of Education
MOL        =         Ministry of Labor
PDRY        -         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
FIU        =         Project Implementation Unit
VTCs        =         Vocational Training Centers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
Amount:              US$4.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Project
Description:         The project would assist the Government in establishing
three vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be
the forerunners of a number of additional VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently
needed skilled and semi-skilled workers in the industrial,
agricultural and commercial sectors. The project consists
of the construction of an industrial, an agricultural and
a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Technical assistance comprising
fellowships for instructors and directors of the institu-
tions would be financed with funds obtained by the Govern-
ment through bilateral agreements. At full development,
the annual output from the project institutions would be
about 500 skilled workers. The Agricultural Training
Center would also provide short practical courses in
modern production methods to about 200 adult farmers per
year. In addition, the facilities of the industrial and
commercial centers would be used to provide special
courses designed to upgrade skills of presently employed
workers. There are no undue risks associated with the
project.
Estimated Costs:                              ------- US$ Million --
Local     Foreign      Total
Civil Works                                    1.68       0.79        2.47
Furniture & Equipment                          0.25        0.61       0.86
Technical Assistance (Training)                0.01        0.04       0.05
Physical Contingencies                         0.18        0.14       0.32
Price Contingencies                            0.46       0.24        0.70
Total Project Cost                             2.58        1.82       4.40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                        -------- US$ Million --------
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                                2.18        1.82         4.00
Government Contribution            0.40           -         0.40
2.58        1.82         4.40
Estimated Disbursements:               -------- US$ Million ---------
IDA FY                      1980          1981          1982
Annual                       0.4           2.2           1.4
Cumulative                   0.4           2.6           4.0
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2097a-YDR dated November 10, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
YEMEN FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $4.0 million to the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen to help finance a Second Education Project.
PART I - ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Position and Prospects
of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen" (1231a-YDR) dated October 11,
1976 was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 29, 1976. An up-
dating mission visited the country in February/March 1978 and its report
is scheduled to be discussed with the Government during the second half of
November 1978. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        PDRY became independent in 1967.  Establishing effective government
administration, particularly in the outlying regions where central authority
had traditionally been weak, and reviving a severely depressed economy became
principal objectives of the new regime in the short term. The sudden loss of
expatriate administrators, the termination of British budgetary support and
the closure of the Suez Canal made these tasks extremely difficult. As the
Government succeeded in overcoming the immediate problems of administration
and economic consolidation, it set out to broaden its economic and social
objectives aimed at diversifying the narrow base of the economy, strengthening
the national cohesion of a traditional tribal society, satisfying basic needs
of the population, and achieving a more equitable distribution of income.
4.        The Government decided to achieve its objectives through increasingly
comprehensive economic and social planning, consistent with its socialist
objectives.  This approach was supported by major structural and institu-
tional reforms, the key element of which was the establishment of a strong
and effective public sector. The reforms were initiated with the nationali-
zation of foreign properties in 1969 which brought the bulk of the modern
service sector in and around Aden (banking, insurance, shipping, trading)
under government control. Subsequent investment in manufacturing, power
and mineral exploration has given the public sector a dominant influence
over industrial activities. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in 1968 and
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from the previous
President's Report for the Water Supply Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (P-2350-YDR), distributed to the Executive Directors
on June 19, 1978.



-2-
1970 respectively have fundamentally changed the land tenure conditions.
Sharecropping and absenteeism of privileged landowners, which had been the
main features of the area's traditional feudal system, were abolished and
individual ownership of land was limited to a maximum of 8 ha in irrigated
and 16 ha in rainfed areas. Simultaneously, new farm organizations--pro-
duction cooperatives and state farms--were created to facilitate the intro-
duction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
5.        Private enterprises were allowed to exist, mainly in trade, handi-
craft and to some extent in manufacturing. But the private sector was given
a subsidiary role and private entrepreneurs were expected to follow the lead
of the public sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is
encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of
joint ventures are now active. Foreign private investors have been encouraged
to participate in oil and mineral exploration.
6.        In 1971 the Government launched its first development plan, covering
the three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The strategy of that plan reflected
the priorities spelled out above by focussing on (a) employment creation
through a major public spending program; (b) diversification of the economic
structure by investing in the commodity producing sectors, i.e. agriculture,
fishing and industry; (c) strengthening the country's national and economic
cohesion through establishing a basic road network; (d) providing urgently
needed education and health services to all population groups; and (e) redress-
ing a skewed income distribution by improving the living conditions of the
rural and urban poor while at the same time rigorously limiting higher incomes.
The current Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978) pursues similar objectives to the
first plan, giving even greater emphasis to investment in agriculture, industry
and the social sectors.
7.        In pursuing its development objectives the Government faces formid-
able constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortage of foreign exchange, and insufficient technical and managerial skills.
A harsh climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for indus-
trial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography
which creates severe difficulties for internal communications resulting in
increased domestic transport cost. Returns on investment will therefore not
come easily and will require considerable effort and human skills.
8.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
Before independence, the country depended largely on expatriate technicians
and managers most of whom left after independence. The Government has tried
to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition, again with foreign
assistance (including IDA), a large education and training program was launched
and in recent years has become increasingly technically oriented. Supported



- 3 -
by scholarships for higher education abroad, and the establishment of tech-
nical training institutions in PDRY the country is now generating a growing
flow of technically trained people who could gradually reduce the shortage of
skilled manpower.
9.        PDRY's economy is heavily dependent on imports.  Having little in-
dustry of its own and a limited agricultural potential, all capital goods,
most intermediate products and a large amount of foodstuffs and other consumer
goods have to be purchased abroad. Its own exchange earnings - mostly from
workers' remittances and services - cover only part of the import bill (average
of 65 percent during 1976-77), the difference being financed largely through
foreign aid. As the economy continues to develop, import requirements are
likely to grow further notwithstanding a certain amount of import substitution.
Increasing the country's exchange earnings thus becomes an urgent need.
Government Expenditure and Financing
10.       The withdrawal of British forces in 1967 and the closure of the Suez
Canal in the same year, left the modern service-oriented economy in and around
Aden with an approximately 30 percent smaller regional income, an extremely
low level of investment (about 3 percent of GNP) and roughly 20,000 people
unemployed (about one fourth of the urban labor force). Foreign exchange
earnings fell by two-fifths while the discontinuation of British budgetary
support reduced government revenue by more than half.
11.       To revive the depressed economy the Government relied primarily on
public spending. Through its Three-Year Plan and the current Five-Year Plan
public investments were increased from $4 million in 1970 to an estimated
$113 million in 1976. 1/ In relative terms they rose from about 2 percent
of GNP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1976. The allocation of investment funds was
determined by the above-mentioned priorities (paragraph 6) and appears to
have been well chosen: more than half of all public sector investments during
the current Plan period (1974/75-77) went to the commodity producing sectors
with agriculture and fishing receiving 37 percent, industry 13 percent and
mineral exploration 7 percent. A large share (25 percent) was invested in
transport and communication facilities (mainly roads) while the remaining 18
percent was spent for social services. The sharp increase in public invest-
ment was accompanied by a major expansion of current government spending on
education, health and other public services which, during the first half of
the 1970s, more than doubled in real terms.
12.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With the low
per capita income and little real growth during the earlier part of this
1/   Preliminary data from the Ministry of Planning indicates that public
sector investment expenditures increased further to about US$165 million
in 1977.



- 4 -
decade, there were definite limitations on raising domestic resources even
though rigorous austerity measures were taken to contain personal incomes and
consumption.
13.       The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic resources was
taxation and containment of Government employee salaries. New taxes were in-
troduced and tax collection improved. As a result, total government receipts 1/
rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 25 percent in 1976.  In
a country with a large subsistence sector and a per capita income of about
$260 in 1976, this would have been difficult to exceed. Government employee
salaries were reduced twice, in 1968/69 and in 1972/73. Notwithstanding
these efforts, domestic resources remained insufficient to cover all public
expenditures.
14.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and more
recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional
and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The exact amount
of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is not known since
some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in the budget or in the
balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable aid, it is estimated
that aggregate disbursements rose from an average level of some $8 million per
annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to about $150 million in 1977.
Economic Growth
15.       Public investment and current government spending had a large impact
on the level of economic activity. Urban unemployment, a major problem after
independence, has been virtually eliminated. As private per capita consumption
was rigidly contained by severe austerity measures, much of the increase in
public sector demand benefited the poorer population groups in the form of
additional incomes through employment.
16.       Overall growth, although slow in the initial years, accelerated sig-
nificantly towards the mid 1970s. Social and institutional changes slowed
down domestic production during the early 1970s. Private sector activity in
trade and other services which provided a major share of GDP at the time of
independence, declined perceptively as the Government gave priority to the
development of a strong public sector. In addition, growth was also held back
by the time lag between investment and output in the public sector. These
difficulties have, however, been overcome and the average growth rate of GDP
at constant prices increased from about 3 percent per annum during 1970-73 to
an average of about 6 percent during 1974-76.
17.       Agriculture (including fisheries) is still the most important sector
in PDRY's economy employing about 45 percent of the labor force and contri-
buting 22 percent to the GDP in 1976. Growth in this sector has averaged some
1/   Including current and development revenues and self-financing of public
enterprises.



4-6 percent p.a. during 1970-76 largely because of the vigorous expansion
in fish production (over 10 percent p.a.). The fisheries subsector was
stimulated by export opportunities and new investments -- partly financed by
IDA -- in modern boats, fishing gear and storage facilities. Agricultural crop
output has grown more slowly although major gains were made in the production
of vegetables and fodder crops. The livestock subsector has grown much more
rapidly with the introduction of modern poultry and dairy production. How-
ever, agriculture and fisheries still offer considerable scope for further
expansion and the Government is determined to utilize the potential of the
sector.
18.       Substantial economic growth has been experienced in other sectors,
e.g. manufacturing, construction and transport. The manufacturing sector
(excluding Aden refinery) is still small -- less than 7 percent of GDP in 1976
-- but has been growing at a rate of 10 percent p.a. since 1969. Import
substitution has been the main thrust of the Government's industrialization
policy with emphasis being given to food processing, textiles and construc-
tion materials. In May 1977, the Government reached agreement with British
Petroleum (BP) to take over the large Aden refinery which had been operating
at only a fraction of its capacity. Technical assistance is being provided by
BP and the refinery has started to process, on a commission basis, crude from
Kuwait, Libya and other oil countries. Another growth sector has been con-
struction; its share in GDP rose from 1 percent in 1969 to 9 percent in 1976
as public investments revived the local construction industry which had suf-
fered severely after independence. The reopening of the Suez Canal in 1975
has led to a sharp increase of activity in the Port of Aden.
Foreign Payments and External Debts
19.       The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. This trend
was, however, partly offset by austerity measures which sharply curtailed
imports of non-essential consumer goods. In addition, the increase in local
production of foodstuffs and manufactured goods has apparently permitted a
certain amount of import substitution. The volume of imports appears, there-
fore, to have grown relatively slowly until the mid-1970s. Notwithstanding
the constraint on the volume of imports, there has been a rapid increase in
import value, due to the sharp rise in international prices, especially during
1974. The value of imports has more than trebled since the beginning of the
decade from an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated
$346 million in 1977. Besides the devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly
reflects price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing
capital goods imports necessitated by the country's ambitious development
program. The growth in import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's
foreign exchange budget, all the more so as the country exports relatively
little and thus benefits only marginally from price rises in the world markets.



- 6 -
20.        Indigenous exports have been able to cover only a minor share of
the import bill. In 1977 they were estimated to be about $29 million or
some 8 percent of commodity imports. More important than commodity exports
are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by workers' remittances.
The latter declined sharply in the early 1970s but are recovering rapidly --
they increased from $56 million in 1975 to $115 million in 1976 and an
estimated $180 million in 1977. This has been due mainly to rising labor
demand and wage levels in the oil surplus countries, but has also been in-
fluenced by a change in Government policy which offers higher interest rates
to non-resident depositors in PDRY's banks and allows private ownership of
dwellings for the use of the owner and his family.
21.       Rising import prices have, however, created a serious shortfall in
PDRY's exchange balance. Total exchange earnings, which in 1969 and 1970 were
still adequate to pay for all imports, covered only about 60 percent of the
import bill in the last three years. As a consequence, the balance on goods
and services showed a rising deficit which amounted to $114 million in 1977.
A large part of the growing current deficit was financed by foreign aid. As a
result of recent changes in Government policy, workers' remittances could
potentially grow further in the future, thus helping to ease PDRY's chronic
foreign exchange shortage.
22.        The heavy inflow of foreign resources led to a rapid accumulation
of PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was given in grant
form. Total debt outstanding including undisbursed as of end 1977 amounted
to $432 million, of which $241 million was disbursed. Bilateral sources
account for 80 percent of total external debt, with Arab Governments and Funds
providing the bulk ($125 million), followed by USSR ($97 million), China
($60 million), and other (largely Eastern Bloc) countries ($57 million).
Multinational aid came from the Arab Fund ($55 million) and IDA ($38 million).
The terms of these loans are concessionary with an average weighted interest
rate of 1.5 percent, grace period of 6 years, and maturity of 24 years, giving
a grant element of more than 60 percent.
23.       The soft terms and the recent nature of PDRY's external debt resulted
in relatively small service obligations so far. Debt service payments at the
end of 1977 were only $1.5 million, about 0.7 percent of total exports of
goods and services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt
service obligations are projected to increase steadily through 1983. This
will exert additional pressure on the already strained balance of payments.
Therefore, in view of the above and the limited resources of the country, the
Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same
reasons, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
24.        In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government national-
ized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (mainly banks, insurance companies
and port services), but not the refinery and bunkering facilities in the port.
This Law provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds
bearing interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits
of all these nationalized companies were to be used for servicing these bonds.



In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substan-
tial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of account-
ants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the nationalized
companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to the
Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with two oil companies in late 1977 and early 1978
and with a development finance company in mid 1978. Negotiations are presently
underway with the two remaining oil companies, and contacts with other former
owners have been maintained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable
settlements. Dialogue with debtors have, however, been very slow since they
have only recently responded to the Government's efforts to settle claims.
The Government professes its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution
with all claimant companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider
such settlement outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law. It is also
considering becoming a member of the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
25.       To date, the Association has had ten operations in PDRY, for a total
IDA commitment of $49.2 million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in
1970, but is not a member of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and,
after a hiatus of about two years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA
funds allocated to PDRY for this period had been committed more rapidly than
envisaged, resumed again in 1978. Of the present total IDA commitment, about
47 percent ($20.3 million) was for assistance in building up physical infra-
structure and strengthening institutions in the transportation sector, through
the provision of three highway credits and a credit for the rehabilitation and
modernization of the Aden port. One of the highway projects was successfully
completed in December 1975. An engineering credit was refinanced under the
credit for the Second Highways (Mukalla-Saywun road) project now under way.
Agriculture (including fisheries) employs about 45 percent of PDRY's labor
force and contributed about 22 percent to the country's GDP in 1976. Although
the cultivable area is severely limited by difficult terrain and harsh climatic
conditions, the potential for increasing agricultural output through use of
improved inputs and modern practices is considerable. IDA has assisted in the
development of agriculture and fisheries through the provision of four credits
amounting to $17.3 million or about 40 percent of total commitments.  The
first fisheries project was beset by cost overruns and as a result a supple-
mentary credit was approved in FY1975 to provide the additional financing needs.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from the previous
President's Report for the Water Supply Engineering and Technica:L
Assistance Project (P-2350-YDR), distributed to the Executive Directors
on June 19, 1978.



-8-
Two agricultural credits approved in FY1976 and FY1978 respectively focus pri-
marily on increasing yield through the introduction of modern inputs and agri-
cultural practices in Wadi Hadramout and Wadi Tuban. A credit of $5.0 million
was approved in FY1978 to help finance a power project in Wadi Hadramout
which, upon completion, will provide an impetus to agricultural development by
providing electricity to drive the ground water irrigation pumps. An IDA
credit of $5.4 million approved in FY1975 for an education project will assist
in alleviating the problems of inadequate facilities and shortage of suitably
qualified teachers. An engineering credit of $1.2 million was approved in
FY1978 to finance the preparation of a water supply master plan and feasibility
studies for the rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in
the two largest cities of Aden and Mukalla. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA Credits as of September 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
26.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. Efforts have been directed towards projects in the trans-
port sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of
PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main markets.
Other sectors where the Association has assisted and will continue to assist,
are in the field of agriculture, including the key fisheries subsector.
Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be an integral
feature in the Association's projects in PDRY.
27.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
follow-up Agricultural project in Wadi Hadramout is expected to result from
an ongoing study by consultants financed under the first Wadi Hadramout
project. A Second Fisheries project (in a remote region of PDRY) prepared
with assistance from an advance from the PPF, has been appraised, as has
a Third Highway project. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects
are expected to be substantially higher than the funds the Association can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join the Association in the financing of suitable
projects. The Association has, between FY1971 and FY1978, successfully played
a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $30 million of co-
financing from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $15.3 million;
and the Arab Fund $13.6 million), thus assisting in increasing the inflow of
development aid to the country.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
28.       Following independence in 1967, the Government established the
Ministry of Education (MOE) with regional directorates and introduced the



- 9 -
policy of extending modern education to all areas of the country. During the
subsequent years all Koranic and private schools were nationalized and edu-
cation at all levels was made public and free. Until the more recent reforms
introduced in 1976 (para. 38) the education system provided for six years of
primary, three years of lower secondary and three years of upper secondary
(general, technical, agricultural and commercial) schooling. To provide
post-secondary education, a university at Aden was established in 1975 by
combining the existing Higher College of Education (Aden), Nasser College
of Education (Lahej), Malla Technical Institute (Aden) and College of Economics
and Administration (Aden). The last three institutions also offer secondary
level technical courses. A new Faculty of Medicine was established in 1975.
Issues and Problems
29.       Given the level of its economic development, PDRY has achieved a
large measure of success in expanding educational opportunities. Total
enrollments in the school system rose from about 94,000 in 1968 to about
276,000 in 1975, a high average annual increase of 16 percent. However, this
rapid growth has been accompanied by qualitative problems.
30.        In terms of equity, although gross enrollments in primary education
reached 89 percent in 1976, the proportion of girls enrolled was about 31
percent. This percentage has remained steady over the last five years,
but compares favorably with countries of similar background to that of PDRY
(e.g. Yemen Arab Republic has female enrollments in the primary level of 14
percent and Oman about 17 percent). The enrollment disparity at the secondary
level was greater with female participation of about 22 percent. This is,
however, an improvement over the 1972 rate of about 20 percent. The Government
is aware of this problem and is intensifying its efforts in the less developed
rural areas where socio-economic and cultural problems, in particular, militate
against the schooling of girls. Some of the steps taken by the Government
include the introduction of special financial incentives, the widespread
application of co-education and the enactment of laws prohibiting marriage
prior to completion of primary education.
31.       The internal efficiency of the education system is low.  Dropout
rates in the lower classes of primary school range between 15 percent and 25
percent and only 50 percent of primary entrants complete the cycle. At the
secondary level, the completion rate is only 33 percent.  These deficiencies
are caused by a number of factors including irrelevant curricula, lack of text
books and teaching aids, severe shortage of qualified teachers, and, despite
the social demand for more education, early termination of schooling due to
socio-economic pressures.   Compounding the problem is the fact that over
50 percent of school buildings are substandard and classrooms are largely
unfurnished. The Government has taken steps to develop new curricula (para.
38) and related textbooks which is the responsibility of the newly established
Education Research Center at MOE.
32.       The supply of qualified teachers has not kept pace with the expan-
sion of enrollments, and this has had an adverse effect on the quality of
education being provided. At present 68 percent of the primary teachers,



- 10 -
67 percent of lower secondary teachers and 30 percent of upper secondary
teachers (the latter figure reflects a teaching corps which is 65 percent
expatriates) are unqualified by government standards--generally minimum
qualifications necessary are three years of post lower secondary training for
primary school teachers and two and four years post-secondary training respec-
tively for lower secondary and upper secondary teachers. To alleviate the
problem the Government is planning to expand outputs of primary school teachers
by 450 per annum and lower-secondary school teachers by 300 per annum during
the 1979-83 plan. These increases will keep pace with the additional annual
demands for primary school teachers occasioned by the planned expansion of
primary schooling, but a shortfall at the lower secondary level averaging
about 200 per annum will persist through the 1980s. In view of the proposed
limitation to growth of the upper secondary schools (para. 39) planned outputs
of upper secondary school teachers (120 per annum) would be sufficient to
satisfy additional teacher requirements, and allow for a start to be made on
replacing expatriate teachers. The upgrading of the large numbers of unquali-
fied teachers at all levels will require a long term solution. The government
has introduced special intensive courses for upgrading primary and lower
secondary school teachers but it is expected that unqualified teachers will
persist at these levels into the 1990s.
33.       In pursuit of its objective to eliminate illiteracy, the Government
has launched a national literacy campaign. The literacy law enacted in 1973
requires the economically active population between the ages of 12 and 45 to
attend a 9-month literacy program within the period 1974-79, and the entire
adult population to attend this program by 1982. While attendance to date has
been far short of target, progress is evident as enrollments have increased
from 5,300 in 1973-74 to 21,700 in 1975-76. Dropout rates are high, however,
with less than 40 percent of the enrollees completing the full course and
passing the literacy examination successfully. As only about 12 percent of
the economically active population had received training by 1976, it is
apparent that the balance will not have received this training by the target
year 1979.
34.       It is clear that over the next decade severe shortages of skilled
workers will act as a constraint on national development. Tentative esti-
mates of requirements for skilled workers with vocational training indicate
a need for about 8,700 per year to 1987 compared with a current output from
existing institutions of 1,250. In the face of this problem, the Government
is giving immediate priority to the development of vocational training centers
(VTCs)--industrial, agricultural and commercial--offering two-year post grade
8 programs for training skilled workers. Current plans call for the estab-
lishment of about 14 centers under the MOE with a combined output of 2,800 by
1985. The proposed project will finance three of these with an annual output
of 500. In addition, the Ministry of Labor (MOL) vocational training capacity
is being expanded (with assistance from the first IDA credit) to produce an
additional 400 industrial workers per year. The Ministry of Agriculture will
also contribute to the output of skilled workers through the establishment of
five agricultural centers (three financed under the first IDA project and one
in the currently proposed project) that will produce 850 skilled agricultural
workers per year. These planned expansions will reduce the shortfall of



- 11 -
skilled workers by about 4,000 or 45 percent of annual requirements in 1987.
Shortages will also be alleviated through on-the-job training which is to be
significantly expanded and through government's plans to increase substantially
the capacity for part-time training to upgrade skills. The project training
centers will also be utilized for the purpose of this upgrading (para. 44).
Since the plans for the upgrading program have not yet been formulated in
detail, the precise number of trainees expected to benefit from this program
cannot be determined at the present time.
35.       Nevertheless, it is clear that skill training, both full-time and
part-time, is scheduled for a major expansion, and that this training will
involve a number of ministries (the principal ministries have been mentioned
above). Close collaboration among the various ministries and public corpora-
tions involved in vocational training will therefore be necessary if unwar-
ranted duplication of effort is to be avoided and if the highest priority
training needs are to be met (para. 48).
36.       The planned expansion of education and training will place an
increasing burden on the economy. In 1976, education expenditures represented
about 6.6 percent of GDP but the implementation of new policies will result in
education expenditures rising to an estimated 9 percent of GDP by 1985. This
is a high level of expenditure for a country at PDRY's stage of development,
and the government is continuing to keep a tight control on education expendi-
tures. Nevertheless, future financial constraints are unlikely to have an
adverse effect on the implementation of the proposed project in view of the
high priority attached to the development of vocational training by the
Government, and the relatively small percentage of education recurrent budget
which will be required (para. 52).
Education Policy
37.       Post independence education and training policies had two objectives:
(i) democratization of the educational system and concomitantly the elimination
of adult illiteracy; and (ii) meeting manpower requirements of the public
services and providing managers and skilled workers for the evolving modern
sector. The Government's development strategy in education continues to be
directed toward these overall objectives but with priority given to reducing
the severe shortage of skilled manpower in the economy.
38.       The education system is currently in a stage of transition.  Wide-
ranging reforms were initiated in 1976 on a phased basis and are expected
to be completed by 1979. Changes presently underway involve the six-year
primary and three-year lower secondary schools being replaced by schools
that will provide eight years of basic education for all (these schools are
referred to as "unity" schools). The Government's target is to have all
the relevant age-groups enrolled in basic education by 1985, but on current
indications this will not be achieved before 1988. Curricula for general
education are being revised with the objective of developing programs more
relevant to economic needs, and the realities of the social environment. For
example, in the upper four grades of the unity schools the new curricula would
include pre-vocational industrial and agricultural training.



- 12 -
39.       The three-year general secondary cycle is being extended on an
experimental basis to four years. It is intended to limit access to general
secondary education to the requirements for higher education and manpower
training. As a job-oriented alternative to general secondary education,
expanded opportunities for vocational training will be provided in centers
such as those to be constructed under the proposed project (see Part IV
below).
Past Lending for Education
40.       IDA lending for education has been divided between efforts to improve
the quality of the formal education system and to alleviate the shortage of
much needed semi-skilled and skilled workers. The First Education Project of
1974 (Cr. 494-YDR) is helping to raise the quality of primary education by
financing the construction, furnishing and equipping of two primary teacher
training institutes, expanding and upgrading the preparatory school level
through the financing of three preparatory schools and improving the quality
and relevance of secondary general education by introducing pre-vocational
courses in two selected secondary schools. The project also supports
institution-building through technical assistance for curriculum development
and fellowships abroad. On the manpower development side, the project is in
the process of establishing two rural development centers in semi-nomadic and
cooperative farming areas of the country, to provide basic training in rural
service trades, agriculture, literacy and health care, a farm machinery
training center, and the expansion of a trades training center. In view of
the relatively limited expansion of technical and vocational education as
compared to the rapidly developing general education, lending in the proposed
Second Education Project would focus on increasing the supply of urgently
needed skilled technical manpower.
41.       Physical execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily
though about two years behind schedule mainly due to delays in the negotia-
tions of contracts with consultant architects and with UNESCO for technical
assistance; and architectural design development which was interrupted as a
result of the introduction of education reforms--the new educational structure
and related curricula introduced in 1976-77 were significantly different from
those for the project schools and required prolonged discussions with the
Government on their applicability for these schools. Contracts for civil
works have now, however, been signed and construction has begun.  Cost-overruns
are estimated at 57 percent arising mainly from price escalation in civil
works. The revised costs, however, are in line with the recent increases in
construction costs in the country.  The Government has agreed to provide the
additional funds needed for the project. As education reforms have recently
been introduced (1976), it is unlikely that further reforms would hinder the
timely implementation of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission in February
1977. It was prepared by the Government, assisted by an IDA mission in August



- 13 -
1977, and was appraised in January 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
in August 1978. The PDRY delegation was headed by Mr. Saeed Noban, Minister
of Education. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Vocational Training
Project (Second Education Project), People's Democratic Republic of Yemen"
(No. 2097a-YDR) dated                         1978 is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A map of PDRY showing project locations is
attached to this report. Features of the Development Credit Agreement of
special interest are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Desciption
43.       The proposed project would help alleviate the acute shortages
of skilled and semi-skilled workers for the industrial, agricultural and
commercial sectors by establishing three high priority vocational training
centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunners of a number of VTCs to be
constructed at a later stage in other parts of the country under the Ministry
of Education (MOE). It would also reduce regional inequalities by decentraliz-
ing vocational training opportunities, and, through the provision of boarding
facilities, would increase the training opportunities for those living in
remote areas.
44.       The Credit would finance construction, equipment and furniture for
(i) an Industrial VTC (250 places) in the Third Governorate, (ii) an agricul-
tural VTC (300 places) in the Second Governorate, and (iii) a commercial VTC
(300 places) in the Fifth Governorate (See Map). Technical Assistance of three
man-years for fellowship training for the instructors and directors of the
centers would be financed by the Government under the project. The VTCs would
provide two-year post-unity (grades 9 and 10) day courses. The industrial and
commercial centers would also provide the regular day program in evening
classes and special courses designed to upgrade skills of presently employed
workers. The agricultural center would have additional accommodation to
provide short practical courses in modern production methods for farmers.
Industrial Training Center
45.       Zengibar would be the site of the industrial VTC to be constructed
under the project. The center would offer programs in automotive mechanics,
general metal mechanics, masonry and tiling, electrical installation and
carpentry.  The programs would relate to the agriculturally oriented Third
Governorate and its rapidly developing construction and transportation needs.
The curricula which are being developed by the Malla Technical Institute in
Aden with the assistance of representatives from industry, are about equally
divided between theory and practice, and are suitable for this type and level
of instruction. Additionally, all students would receive eight weeks of
on-the-job experience in appropriate public sector industries during the
vacation period between the first and second years of training. The center
would have an enrollment of 250 with girls comprising about 15 percent in the
two-year courses. Additional evening class enrollments would cater for a
minimum of 130 students. Boarding facilities would be provided for 100
students. Beginning in 1983, the center including evening classes would have
an output of about 180 skilled workers from the various programs which would



- 14 -
be offered in five specializations. Twenty-two instructors required are
currently in training at the Malla Technical Institute. No problems are being
encountered in recruiting trainee instructors due to the relatively attractive
conditions of salary and employment.
Agricultural Training Center
46.       The center would be established at Saber in the Wadi Tuban Delta,
(Second Governorate), one of the important agricultural areas in PDRY and
the site of the IDA-financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Cr.
768-YDR). The center would be located on a ten acre site adjacent to a state
farm (Mugahed) which would be available for practical field training. Satis-
factory curricula and syllabi are being developed by the Nasser College of
Agriculture at Lahej. About one sixth of the time would be devoted to general
subjects during both the first and second year programs. The curriculum for
technical subjects would consist of about 30 percent theoretical and 70 percent
practical training. Second year students would undergo programs in five
specializations: (i) Horticulture and Agronomy, (ii) Plant Protection and
Bee-Keeping, (iii) Animal Production, (iv) Dairy and Food Technology and
(v) Farm Mechanization. Each group of students would spend eight weeks
in appropriate institutions, such as state farms, agricultural cooperatives,
etc., during the vacation period between the first and second years of train-
ing. The center would provide (i) two-year courses with an enrollment of
250 (about 20 percent girls) and an annual output of about 110 skilled agri-
cultural workers for employment by state farms, agricultural cooperatives,
other agricultural agencies and agro-industries and (ii) short courses in
modern agricultural production techniques for about 200 farmers per year.
The project would provide boarding facilities for 150 trainees to be recruited
from remote areas. Of the 20 instructors required, 12 are currently being
trained in the Nasser College of Agriculture, and the remaining will begin
training in 1978-79.
Commercial Training Center
47.       The center would be located in Mukalla, the capital of the Fifth
Governorate and the country's second largest city whose commercial importance
is increasing with its rapidly developing fisheries and related industries.
It is also the physical and commercial gateway to the agriculturally important
Wadi Hadramout region in its hinterland, and to the Sixth Governorate.  To
assure the proper curriculum balance required for realistic job preparation,
about 70 percent of the time would be devoted to technical theory and prac-
tice. Satisfactory curricula and course syllabi have been developed by the
teaching staff of the College of Economics and Administration in Aden. The
Center would have an enrollment of 300 (75 percent girls) in two-year programs
of training for secretaries and bookkeepers. An additional 175 students
would be enrolled in evening classes of the same duration. Annual output from
both programs would be about 210 beginning in 1983. Boarding facilities for
150 would be provided to cater for the needs of students from other cities in
the governorate and from the Sixth Governorate. The 21 teachers required
would be recruited from among graduates of the College of Economics and
Administration who have had sufficient business experience and who would be



- 15 -
enrolled in a satisfactory program of pre-service pedagogical training. No
problems are anticipated in their recruitment due to adequate availability of
potential candidates.
Coordination and Evaluation
48.       Recognizing that close collaboration among the various ministries
and public corporations involved in vocational training is necessary to avoid
wasteful duplication, and to ensure that the most urgent training needs are
met, the government has charged the National Technical and Vocational Council
with this responsibility. However, the Council of Ministers is presently
considering assigning this responsibility to the MOE. The National Technical
and Vocational Council will continue to discharge this responsibility, unless
the Government and IDA agree otherwise (Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
In that case, the responsibility for such coordination would be assumed and
discharged by the MOE.
49.       In order to ensure the continuing relevance of the training programs
to be offered by the individual institutions and the placement of graduates in
jobs for which they are trained, the Government has agreed that (i) the MOE
would maintain adequate consultation with local and other appropriate interests
to ensure and continue the relevance of curricula of the VTCs (Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.02(b)); and (ii) the MOE would establish an evaluation system
including a tracer study for analysis of job performance, details of which are
to be forwarded to the Association for review no later than December 31, 1980;
the results of the tracer studies would be submitted over five years following
the first outputs from the project institutions as required for project
evaluation (Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (c)).
Technical Assistance
50.       As curriculum and course syllabi, equipment and furniture lists and
specifications have been prepared by the staff of the existing institutions,
and as a pre-service instructor training program is already underway, no
expatriate experts would be necessary for the implementation of the proposed
project. A program of three man-years of fellowship training for short-term
(4 to 6 months) internships abroad would be provided for four instructors and
two directors of the centers, to be financed by the Government. A fellowship
program acceptable to the Association for this training has already been
prepared and the Government has made arrangements for the necessary training
in the German Democratic Republic under its bilateral assistance program with
that country. To ensure that directors and instructors are available for the
installation of equipment and preparation of teaching programs, the Government
has agreed that overseas fellowship training would be completed prior to the
scheduled opening of the institutions, and consequently that fellows would be
sent abroad no later than October 31, 1980 (Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project Implementation
51.       The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOE, which is effectively
implementing the first IDA project, would be responsible for the implementation



- 16 -
of this project. The PIU would be assisted by the General Director of Tech-
nical and Vocational Education in the implementation of the educational
aspects of the project and by a recently appointed equipment and furniture
procurement officer in the MOE. The Design Unit of the Ministry of Construc-
tion would be responsible for the preparation of architectural designs and
construction drawings, together with supervision of construction and follow-
up maintenance.  The Unit is adequately staffed with qualified technical per-
sonnel who are fully competent to undertake this work. Implementation of the
project is expected to take three years following the signing of the Credit
Agreement. The normal guarantee period of civil works, final disbursements
and closing of accounts would require an additional year. The overall status
of project preparation is satisfactory. Good progress has been made in
curriculum development, preparation of furniture and equipment lists including
specifications, and development of schematic architectural drawings.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project, exclusive of import duties and taxes
which are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $4.4
million. Physical contingencies have been estimated at about 10 percent, and
overall price contingencies at about 20 percent of the baseline cost (21
percent for civil works, 15 percent for furniture and equipment, and 10
percent for training). Total contingencies of $1.02 million represent 23
percent of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of $4.0 million,
representing about 90 percent of total project costs, would finance 100
percent of estimated foreign exchange cost ($1.82 million) and about 85
percent ($1.18 million) of the local cost of the project. In view of the
limited resources of the country (para. 23) local cost financing by IDA is
recommended. The balance, amounting to $0.40 million or about 10 percent of
project costs, would be financed by the Government. When fully operational,
in 1982, the project institutions are estimated to require $0.35 million
annually in recurrent costs, corresponding to about 0.6 percent of projected
public recurrent expenditure on education in 1983.
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       Civil works and procurement of equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. Because of the dispersion of the civil works and the relatively
small cost of individual items, foreign contractors are not likely to be in-
terested in bidding. All civil works contracts therefore would probably be
awarded to local firms. In the event foreign bids are received, qualified
local civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.   Custom made
furniture for workshops and small groups of furniture items for which inter-
national competitive bidding would not be practicable would be procured under
normal government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and would include
quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The total value
of furniture so procured would not exceed $90,000 equivalent.



- 17 -
54.       In the evaluation of bids under international competitive bidding
(ICB), local manufacturers of furniture would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports
or 15 percent c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
55.       The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis of 89 percent
of total expenditure for civil works, and for furniture and equipment, 100
percent of foreign expenditures, or of local expenditures ex-factory, or 85
percent of expenditures for locally procured imported items.
Benefits and Risks
56.       At full capacity in 1983, the project institutions will have an
annual output of about 500 urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers
for the industrial, agricultural, commercial and service sectors. The supply
from the project institutions would meet about 6 percent of the annual voca-
tional training needs of the country, and in the process provide urban and
rural youths a job-oriented alternative to secondary general education. The
project would contribute to reducing regional inequalities in opportunities
for vocational training through the dispersed location of the project schools
among various outlying governorates and through the provision of boarding
facilities for about 45 percent of the students originating from the remote
areas. The project would also assist the Government in achieving its objec-
tives of increasing the role of women in the economic life of the country by
providing for the participation of female students in all proposed training
programs.
57.       In view of progress made to date in project development and the
Government's commitment to the speedy implementation of the project, no undue
risks or delays in project implementation are foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 29, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                               ANNEX 1
page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN PDR E
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             338.1                                                       SANE         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        1.1 /f                                HOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP td    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       *- L/    230.0 /h  260.0             1438.5       182.9         432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       299.0        463.0      328.0             816.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           1.1          1.5         1.7                -
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..              ..       33.3             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           3.0          4.0        5.0             23.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         ..       1364.0    1545.0              112.4       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              ..        39.8       47.3              46.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                              ..        55.6       47.6              50.6        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       ..          4.6        5.1              3.3         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  *-          3.4        2.7              2.9         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              5.0         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.8         50.2       49.6             45.0        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        30.7         24.4       20.6             13.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.5        3.5              3.4         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..             14.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               103.1       100.0      101.0             107.1        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     84.0         84.0       84.0              99.2        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             56.3         56.0      57.0              63.4        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..        37.0 /h       ..             16.4        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..           ..         ..               ..          ..          7.5
HEALTY
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2            42.3       44.8             53.7        45.8          53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..              ..       40.0             77.7       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-        57.0          *-             59.1        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..         88.0         ..             85.9        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                  ..        43.0          ..             38.0        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..             64.3        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             94.5        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             27.7         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..     32380.0   10750.0             4271.6    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..           ..         ..           2077.4      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  *-       1980.0      860.0            580.2      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..            310.0       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..              22.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..              5.4         5.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..        4.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..               1.8         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       22.0 /i          40.3        25.9          28.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        1.6 Li          12.2          ..          10.3



- 20 -
page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
YehEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHFET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN FPR
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
1IOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  b      1970 /b ESTIHATE /b        REGION  c   GROUP Ld    GROUP. Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  13.0          61.0     89.0               80.8        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                 5.0         24.0      28.0               61.8        45.9         67.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0          10.0     21.0               23.6        14.4         17.7
FeHALE                 2.0          4.0        5.0              18.2         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0            3.0        7. 0              6.7         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0          31.0     30.0               31.5        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           21.0         20.0      24.0               22.3        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..           ..      20.0  11          50.1        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.0          7.0        6.7              14.5         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          52.0           .,      104.0 /k          125.8        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         16.0      18.0              34.5         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..          1.0         ..             17.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             2.4         ..              1.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        300.0        310.0      416.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     4.2          4.8        5.0               9.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                71.0        62.0       42.9              42.0        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.5         17.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  28.2         27.4       26.6             26.4        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   53.4         51.5      49.8              46.6        53.3         50.3
FE'V!I E                                2.3          2.7       2.7               5.3       10.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..          1.6        2.0              1.9         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..                ..        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..    .         ..        ..                ..        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..                ..         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..                ..        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                ..       88.5         155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      140.0             142.0       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       90.0            236.1       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       75.0             144.7       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POP1"ATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PrRCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       15.0             21.5        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       20.0             37.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extrem.e
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervwle noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income (5280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  Lf  Estimated productive agricultural land;   L&  Under revision;
/h  Av. 1964-66;   /i  I population;   /I  ages 10+;   /k  1971.
September, 1978



-21 -                                                                      page 3 of 6 pages
KEY TO COUNTRIES BY  EGt0ON AND INCOHE CRDUPI
Region/Tiosa Croup                 Lq  Ine"                          L-ner middle              -Int-mdiat. Hiddla                      Vpp.r Middle            Righ I.-n If                 C      Ioriries
Incono/o                     Inc-aLed                             Innmeo-L                                        Oil 0 rpor-er
R*onl                   Maastxv           Angola                    Chnar                                  RJihnoti                   Cabon
Bururdi                 hali              HoocsenE Ivory Coaar R.u..ni
Central Afritan  ip.   HorM,biqu.         Canlaon                  MHuritiu
Chad                    NI$5C             Cape Verde                .a.,bi!h
C-ema                   Sa,anda           Cono, P.R. RSyth.11.s
Elhiopia                Sirr  teorr       EqoatorIl Coin..
AFAICA SOUTH          Co=bi, Tha               S-Iai             Liberia
OF SAHARA             Cuinea                   TMn-.ni            .oritnia
C.ina-Bt...u            TcgO               Nig*ri
Kenya                   Ugand.            Rhedrai
Lesoiho                 Upp-r Volts       San Ton- A Fri.cip.
MadaSacar               2air              Ssregal
Sudan
BOUTH AFRICA           gYPt                                      Moocd -                                                          la-ran                     ISrael                      i,oait
N0RSV NFRIC Yeo no KR.                                              Jorda                                  Iran                       00an                        Libna
AND MIDDLE            YVI...5                                                             liAn AR.                                Ir.q                                                    aa
REST                                                                                      Tuniria                                 Lebanon                                               f udi Arabia
tid t    rA-  bit-.
AfghnIat                Madives
SOUTH ASIA            En-iadob Mhe Prt
B-r-a                   Sri Lak.
,,di.
Cehbodi.                                 NMe  Mebrid.a              Chin,  ep. of                          yiji                        Hoerinan S1.0.
l,d-n-ia                                  Paoc. Men Gotnna          Gilbert l-landa                        Rel R1oRd                  BrOne
EAST ASIA             Leo P.D.R.                                 Philippine                 orn., Ra P  Hf                                                   Fr-rch Polynesia
SilotIon . landa                          Thtland                  HCnun                                                             1U.
ViWt N.a                                  TonR                      Mla  Ni                                                            e Caledonia
western Sam-o            Trust Territnry of the Panifin                                     Singapore
Haiti                                     Rolivia                   Aaeigia           Guatemla             ArRentina                  Daha-nea
El Ralvador              telir             Janaia Barbades                                 Eemud
rCen...d.                Ch,Il             M: xino              BRoahanl  oe
LorlN AMERICA                                                   Gun                       Cno1-bi.          Nicnaao               Frenoh : uiana            pianninous
AND CARIBBEANh-So'oa                                                                      Coat. Dma.         Paraguy              Coe",nP.                  V - :uela
St. Vinrnot             Dbminin.           Pen.                  Mthe.leOd.  atll.e         Violin I.lInd. (U.S.)
Denininan Rep.   St. Mitts-nia         PanraW
Ecua.dor          St. Lena A           Puert. Rite
Trinidad & T.bapo
iruRua,
Turkay                                 Cyprus                     Channel I tLendI
late of Fan               Feeron DIee-da
EUROPE                                                                                                                          KHira                       Cibr__.l-
Portuga1                  Cr::..
INDUSTRIALIZED        Atr tiu           France                         apnSouth Afoina
COGrrEIES             Belgiuc           Ge--n-  Fed. Rp. of           L.rahuObHrg         Swden
C anada           Iceand                       Netherlands          Swit.erlend
Dersark           Irelad                       Neu Zealand          United Kin5do-
AIanl-i          Can-  D0. Rap.             DSSR
lulgaria          Hun-ary
CENTRALLY PLANNET    China P.R.  f        ...n a    on. Rep. of
ECON(IIES            Cuba              Mnn-oli.
C.ethaslua-i    Poland
/a BRaed an 19h C.NP per n-pita io 1976 US dollar..
7b  5280 or Iaa par oupitA.
. 9281-1_5so p-O tapt-.
j  S551-1135 par naita.
/    1 136-2100 por c.pit. F.DFS
over $2500 par c.pite.



- 22-                                               page 4 of 6 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
hgs,   The  djusted group avrages for *ech indicator are population-waighted geometric means  socluding the metre  values of the isdicator and the 0001
populated oouontr  in each group.  Coverage of countries  .og  the indicators depends on availability of data  _  is mt snifoo.   eas to lack of data,
group average- for Capital Surplua Oil Eoporters and indicators of access to water and corrst disposal, housing, income distributio  and poverty are
irple population-weighted geo..etic meana without the exclusion of entrame values.
LAND AREA (thousaod sq. kb)                                                            Population per hospita1 bed - toutl, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total outface srea comprising land are  and inland waters                       urban, snd rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bods
Aurioulturni - Most receont etite of agricultural  rea used temporarily                 available in public and private gneral and apacialised hospital sad re-
cr perma-netly foe crops, pantores, earkst and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals Are *steblisheente permanently atffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Estebliehmenta providing principally custodial
cars are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mcdi-
GCP PER CAPITA (tUS) - GNP per c.pits estimats at currant market prices                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by name conversion mechod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistast, nure, midwife, etc,) which offer in-pstient accowodation  end
1960, 1970, und 1977 data.                                                            provide a liiitsd range of medical facilities.
Adeiesions oer hospital bed - Tntel number of adeissions to or diechargos
EtERGY CONSifPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consueption of comercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
rhc-rIul electriciry) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                HOUSING
Average sine of hous.ehold (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
PqOPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A hou ehold tonsists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, oid-year (mIllions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 And their main  eals.  A boarder or lodger my or may not be included in
anernge of two end-year-etinate-; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                          cth  household for statistical purpoe.  Sctatistical definitions of houee-
libac population (percent of total) - RAtio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban greas my affect comparability                 Average number of persons per roo  - total. urben, and rural - Average nu-
,,I dait  ucong cuntries.                                                             ber of persons per roos in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
fPpulatlon density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwllings sxclude non-peremnent structures ard
Per nsq  ka.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                unoccupied parts.
of  ott1 area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellipAs) - total, urban, end rural -
Per q. kh._ agriculture land - Computed as above for  lgriculturel land                Convential I dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
univ.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of total, urban, and rural dwellings reapectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeare), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired  (65 yearo and over) as percentages of mid-           EDUCATION
your popolucion.                                                                  Adjusted enrollm.ent ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total  and famls - Total and feal.t enrollent of a11 ages
growth rutes of tuts1 and urban mid-year populationa for 1950-60,                     at the primary level ua percentages of rsapeotivel  primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 ysars but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousnd) - Annual live birth. per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
oid-yepr population; ten-year nrithnetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment ny enceed 100 percent since some pupils are belov or
1470 and five-year average ending in 1975 for must recent estimte,                    above the official school age
Prude death rate (onr thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Seoundary school - total, and f_ae - Computed as above; secondary educa-
your population; ten-year arithmetic  verages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four year  of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fine-year average ending in 1975 for most recant eatimete.                        videe genera1 vocational, or teacher training inatructiona for pupil.
Gon rearoduction rate - Average numher of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years uf "Se; correspondence courses are generally
In her normal -ep-oductiv- period if she experiences present age-                     ecluded.
apecific fertility rates; usually five-year averagas ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (percent of acondarv) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other progrm, which operate independently
Family Planning - acueptoro. annual (thousands) - Annual ncober of                      or an departments of secondary institutions.
acceptorn of birth-control devices under auspices of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary.                    - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numb.era of teachers in the cerre-
Panily planniog - users (percent of marcied women) - Percentage of                       pondiog levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read nd write) no
dcviceu to uli narried women iname age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUHPTION
Idex of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indem number of per                 Passenger oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor carn
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                    eating less than eight peronns; ascludes   bulances, hearses  nd military
P -r capitu supply of calories (percent of require  nts) - Computed from              vehicles
eovrgy equivalent of net food nupplies available in country par capita             Radio receivers (per thousand posslatiom) - All typee of r-ceivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies Comprise domestic production, imports lees             broadcasts to general public per thobaand of population; sxcludes unlicensed
copcrtr, and changes in stock.   et supplies occlude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
qoontitieo used in food procensing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years my not be comreble since moat countries
quireveotu were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
ral uctivity and health considering environmenta1 temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV reesivers for broadcast to genera
-eights, age und sex diotributions of population, and allo ing 10 per-               public per thousand population;, sclude  unlice- d Tv receivers in coun-
cent for wanoe ut hounehold level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
7cr capita oppDlp of protein (graps per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thoue_ Memuletion) - Shows the average circula-
copita net -upply of food per day.  let supply of food is defined as                  tion of "dily general interest    epaper   defined as a periodic-l publi-
bhov.  Requiremennt  for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                cntion devoted primarily to recordiLg general new.  It is considered to
a oioimum allowance of 60 grun  of total protein per day and 20 graee                 be "daily" if it appears at l"st four time  a week.
of soial and pulse protein, of which 10 groam  should be animal proteio.          Cinema annual attendance per ceotta per year - Based on the number ot tickets
The.n standardn are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year. includieng  diseione to drive-in cineman and mobile
23 grams of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in tho Third World Food Survey.
Por caPita Protein supply fro  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EYPLOTYMENT
derived from  animalo and pulses in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active Persons, including arned
Child (ages 1-4) nnrtality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoua-               forces and unemployed but excluding bomeewives,  tudents, etc.   Defini-
and in ago group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tiona in various countries are mat cparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percntage of total labor force.
HEALTH fAriculture (pertent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life enpec-anco at birth (yearn) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-Year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in miming, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percmttma of total labor force.
Intact mortality rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - tetal, li            fel   - Total, male, and
one year of ago per thousand live birhts.                                             'e.a10 labor force as percentages of their repective populationo.
Acuens to uafe water (percent of population) - total, urban, end rural -                Thee are iLOn addjusted participetion rstee  reflecting ape-nec
Nuobnr of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                  structure of the poplarito, nod long tine trend.
-af  .ater -upply (includes treated surfsce waters or untreated but                Econoeic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water ouch as that from protected boreholes, springs,                  t
and sanitary wells) as perceotogen of their respective populations.                   th  labor force in age group  f 15-64 year.
In an urban ore a  public fountain or st-ndpeet located not more                  INCOME OISTRIEUTION
rIsn 200 eetore from a house may be considered as being within Tea                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
tunable uccesn of that house.  In rura1 areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, pnnrsst21 percent, and poorest 40 percent
ioply rhot the housewife or nembern of the household do not have to                   of houne bldsn
upend a dinproportionute part of the day in fetching the family's
water  eneds.                                                                     POVEiT TARGET OPS
Accent to excreta diuposa.  (Percent of Iopuletlon) - total, urban, and              Estimated sbeolute poverty income level (USs par capita) - urban and rural -
rural - buhber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by egcreta                     Absolute poverty inore level is chat incos level below which u minimal
dinpusul on percentages of their respective population.s  Etcret                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essantial non-food requirements is not
dinp-cl nay inolude the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable.
roeit-nt, of human eucreto and waste-water by weter-borne systems                  Entimated relative poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
io the use of pit privies and sisilar Installations                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Pc-uuatton Poo pbyuiciao - Population divided by nunber of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
pryi,u..ns qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Estimted population below poverty incoe  level (perccnt) - arban and rural -
Pu.puatign per oursie.g perooc - Population divided by number of                         Percent of populution (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male cod female gruduatenuosen, practical nur een, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
Economic and Social Dats Division
Economic Analysis  nd Proections Departoent



ANNEX I
-23-                               page 5 of 6 pages
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1976
US$ mln    _
GNP at market prices                      470     100
Gross Domestic Investment                 148      31
Gross National Savings                     11       2
Exports of goods & NFS                     91      19      Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods & NFS                    325      69      (constant 1974 prices)
1970/73            1974/76
GDP at factor cost                        326     100         3                  6
of which
Agriculture & fishing                  71      22         4                  6 2/
Industry 11                            27       8        14
Trade, Transport, Finance             117      36        -6                  7
Other services                        111      34         5                  5
GOVERMENT FINANCE                                                    Prelim. Est.
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)             1974/752/   1975       1976      1977
Total receipts 4 /                       24         17         32         40
Current expenditures                     28         25         39         45
Revenue deficit                          -4         -8         -7         -5
Development expenditures                 21         19         39         57
Overall deficit                         -25        -27        -46        -62
Borrowing from Banking Svstem            12         10         17         18
Other Assets and Accounts5/                          2          1          1
External Financing                       13         15         28         43
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1973        1974      1975       1976     1977
(million Y.D. Outstanding end Period)
Money and quasi-money                    49          55        67         98      140
Bank credit to Government                17         24         37         62       73
Bank credit to non-Gov't Sector i/       10          19        24         31       49
1/ Includes petroleum refining
2/ The overall negligible growth of the industrial sector is due to the decline
in Aden Refinery production from 2.8 million tons in 1973 to 1.6 million tons
in 1976--the non-petroleum industrial sector grew at an estimated rate of about
10 percent per annum between 1974-76.
3/ The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April
1-December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
4/ Includes current & development revenues and self-financing of public enterprises.
5/ Net operations of special funds (martyr's fund, stabilization fund, etc.).
/  Includes public sector agencies



ANNEX I
page 6 of 6 pages
- 24 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)         1973        1974       1975       1976     1977-
Domestic Exports, f.o.b.2/                14           8          8         26       29
Retained Imports, c.i.f.l/              -120        -179      -171       -267      -346
Trade Deficit                             -106        -171       -163       -241     -317
Invisibles, net                             54          70         76        145      203
Workers' Remittances                      33          41         56        115      180
Others, net                               21          29         20         30       23
Balance on Goods and Services              -52        -101        -87        -95     -114
Official Transfers                         ..            1         10         46        55
Official M & LT Capital, net                25          48         31         58        92
Gross Disbursement                        25          48         32         60       94
Repayments                               -           -           -1         -2       -2
Miscellaneous Capital, net3/                23          18         21        -21         6
Overall Balance                             -4         -34        -24        -13       39
Net Foreign Assets, of Which:               74          40         16          3       42
Bank of Yemen's gross reserves            76          63         53        82       101
Use of IMF Credit                        ..          -11        -27       -43       -45
Commercial Bank                           -2         -12       -10        -36       -14
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                      Average 1975-76
US$ Million Percent
Fish & Fish Products                                    8.8        52
Cotton                                                  5.9        35
Others                                                  2.2        13
TOTAL                 16.9       100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1977)
US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                      431.5
Of which:  Disbursed                               240.7
Debt Service Payments 1977                              1.5
Ratio of Debt Service to 1977 Exports of Goods
and Services, Including Remittances              0.7 percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971          As of December 1971       As of February 1973
US$1.00 = YD 0.42               US$1.00 = YD 0.38         US$1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 = US$2.40               YD 1.00 = US$2.61         YD 1.00 = US$2.90
1/ Preliminary Estimate
2/ Net of re-exports
3/  Including errors and ommissions                                  Mav 26, 1Q78



- 25 -                  ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1978)
---------US$ Million-------
Credit                                               Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose           IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                       1.6                  -
370-YDR  1973    PDRY          Fisheries /1          5.1                 0.6
494-YDR  1975    PDRY          Education I           5.4                 4.4
560-YDR  1975    PDRY          Highways II /2       15.5                 5.5
584-YDR  1976    PDRY          Aden Port. Rehab.   3.2                   1.9
615-YDR  1976    PDRY          Wadi Hadramout        7.0                 4.5
768-YDR  1978    PDRY          Wadi Tuban /3         5.2                 5.2
829-YDR  1978    PDRY           Power /4             5.0                 5.0
S21-YDR  1978    PDRY          Water Supply Eng.
Credit /5           1.2                 1.2
Total                                         49.2                 28.3
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                         49.2
Total undisbursed                                                  28.3
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1978)
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
/1   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
/2   Including $0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
/3   Approved February 14, 1978:  Credit not yet effective.
/4   Approved June 13, 1978:  Credit not yet effective.
/5   Approved June 29, 1978:  Credit not yet effective.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: US$3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
Due to delays in finding a suitable Project Manager, the original
credit became effective only on February 12, 1974. Since then, project imple-
mentation on the whole has been proceeding satisfactorily. A supervision mis-
sion in June 1974 reported that price and physical contingencies included in
the project were insufficient to cover increases in project cost, which
were mainly due to both foreign and domestic inflation. Since the scope of
the project could not reasonably be reduced and no other sources of financing
were available, the Association agreed to a supplementary credit of $1.6
million to cover the increased foreign cost of the project. Civil works on
the construction of shore facilities at Mukalla and Shihr have been completed
together with the installation of refrigeration and processing equipment.
Operations of these facilities are expected to begin soon. Seventy-three
of the 100 fishing boats financed under the credit have been completed in
local shipyards and contracts for the remaining twenty-seven have been placed.
Twenty-six completed boats have been retained by PCFW and the rest delivered
to fishing cooperatives.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: US$5.4 Million of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
This credit will assist the Government in making qualitative improve-
ments in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs. Implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily but is about 18 months behind appraisal
estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective and in
the'negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant architects and
(ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion. Civil works on the construction of new premises, and extension
and rehabilitation of the existing schools have begun.
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: US$15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project, financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development, comprises (a) construction of 358 km of roads between the
Wadi Hadramout agricultural area and the coast, which were prepared under
Credit 240 and Engineering Credit S-12; (b) economic and engineering studies
for 320 km of roads (Naqabah-Ataq-Nissab-Beihan-Alayn); (c) purchase of
maintenance equipment and spares; (d) technical assistance to the Ministry of
Public Works (now known as Ministry of Construction), including fellowships
for its staff abroad; and (e) re-financing of Engineering Credit S-12. Since
international competitive bidding for the construction element of the project



- 27 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
did not lead to an acceptable bid, arrangements have been made for the works
to be carried out by a government construction unit which is assisted by the
UK Crown Agents. Construction and road maintenance equipment have been
procured and construction of the Mukalla-Shihr-Saywun roads (358 km) started
in March 1976 is making satisfactory progress with approximately 45 percent of
the civil works completed. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the
economic studies of the Naqabah-Beihan road and are in the final stages of
final engineering. Consultants (Sotecni-Italy) have completed the technical
assistance component and the overseas training program is underway with six
Yemeni engineers having completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK
and 2 in West Germany). Candidates remain to be nominated for the remaining
four fellowships programmed.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project: US$3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The Project provides for (a) floating equipment; (b) cargo-handling equipment;
(c) workshop equipment, spares and stocks; (d) diving team equipment; (e)
navigation, mooring and communications equipment; and (f) technical assis-
tance. The procurement consultant provided under the technical assistance
component of the project has completed the preparation of the tender documents
and orders for equipment have been placed. The two cost accountants, a marine
engineer and a training advisor are in the process of being recruited.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Project: US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services.  It also includes provision of
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. Progress on the
project has been slow because of the difficulties encountered in locating
suitable expatriate candidates for the position of Project Manager, Irrigation
Engineer and an Extensionist. The Project Manager and the irrigation Engineer
have been appointed and are now on site. The appointment of the Extensionist
is expected soon. Orders for agricultural machinery have been placed and
tender documents are being prepared for agricultural supplies.
Cr. No. 768-YDR - Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project: US$5.2 Million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and raise agri-
cultural production and farm income in Wadi Tuban through the use of modern
inputs and improved practices. It provides for credit to cooperatives and



-28 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village water supply scheme and
improved irrigation system; a water management study; an agricultural policies
study; and technical assistance and training. The Government, with assistance
from FAO is actively searching for suitable expatriate staff who are to be
financed from the Credit. The Government has substantially completed negotia-
tions with the Arab Fund which is cofinancing this project for an amount of
$6.2 million. The Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 829-YDR - Wadi Hadramout Power Project: US$5.0 Million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date:   March 15, 1979   Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project would provide an impetus to agricultural development
in Wadi Hadramout by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks. Insti-
tution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training abroad of PCEP's personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study, and a power development study. The Credit is not yet
effective.
Cr. No. S21-YDR - Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project:
US$1.2 Million Credit of July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 14  1978
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of studies to assist the Government in the
preparation of water supply master plans for the two largest urban agglomera-
tions, Aden and Mukalla; the assessment of potential water resources in
other populated areas of the country; and the elaboration of the first con-
struction phase of projects for the improvement and expansion of water supply
services in the areas under consideration. Technical assistance comprises
the formulation of appropriate administrative structures and financial
policies for the national water authority and a tariff study. The Credit
is not yet effective.



- 29 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by government to prepare
the project:                                      - Eight months (June 1977 -
January 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                - Ministry of Education
(c)  Project first identified:                         - February 1977
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:                   - January 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:               - August 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    - March 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
A start-up mission immediately following Credit signing will review
the final furniture and equipment lists and discuss the detailed implementa-
tion schedules as well as procedures for procurement.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The National Technical and Vocational Council would continue
to function as a coordinating agency to ensure close col-
laboration among the various ministries and public corpora-
tions involved in vocational training unless the Government
and IDA agree otherwise (paragraph 48);
(ii) The Ministry of Education would maintain adequate consulta-
tion with local and other appropriate interests to ensure
and continue the relevance of curricula of the Vocational
Training Centers (paragraph 49);
(iii) An evaluation system including a tracer system for anlaysis
of job placement and performance would be developed for all
project institutions and forwarded for the Association's
review no later than December 31, 1980; the results of tracer
studies would be submitted to the Association periodically
over five years following first outputs from the project
(paragraph 49); and



- 30 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) The instructors and training center directors under the
fellowship program would be sent abroad for internship
training no later than October 31, 1980 (paragraph 50).



IBRD 13668RR
TURKEY    A  e ~~~~~~~~~~~ x E U.SS.B N  46                      q80                             5                                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  12       SFPTEMBER 1978
TURK AEEA                    U. 5o.                               46'48
X    ICAQ \n  I~~~IHAN     T'PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN                                                                                                                                20-
*kSEUTBALZ<SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT 
iot  AUDlI ARABIA    >>
SUD N      a_    S                            
/   S  Drs&< ARARSAN Sk A          ~      ~      ~ ~~0 50       1 00          l 50                              PI, 
,{ETHIOPIA                                                            MIE I                                           k,-- 
i    JEOtT}                                 0        5       1q00IE  1 50       200       250                          **  
<                {                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
./  t .                   )~~~~~Thamud '/                                     \                      _
tS \  *   iSa dslh      *                                 /       >}           o~~~~~~~~~~~          ~     ~~~                                   ~ ~~~~~Bir Tcmis /./\
0,f5-     g           ~~~~~~~YE M  E N               i              /      rZamak       -       -                                                           z
-16    <\          l    ~~~~~~~~                      ~~REPUBLIC    ./OIbr\                             T &gc      op4-hadhts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~1    (  |/.tr < al                                Sah5 -'  
8 '   * \    \)          _/          M~~~~ ~~~            ~     ~ ~~cirib  I/           I -  ara)s.                                       (Dsn5,
:  \   ,_8SANAA                \    /                  o~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~ ~~~~~OShabwah:                        Ltc Say
/   ~~~   (   |g  ^"              1        4                   f            'ahaazrXA~~~~~~~~~~. I Hibs       -
Hodeidi                               Al Ayn uha              iloAq                    .\                        sh Shihr                    A      INDUSTRIAL VOCATIONAL CENTER
Z   \         /   \  NlsobO                                            >A   Rhuholr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p              AGRICULTRALVOCATIONAL CENTER
/     .J      -.   As SaJdo    -        ~~~~~~~~A zzan  *           lMk a/                                    COMMERtCIAL VOCATIONAL CENTER
~~~'4            /                         Xukayr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al MS y y aa           *   /                                          <  0    NAvTIONAL CAPITALS ANDOTHeR CITIES        14'-
> | ~~~~~~~~~Mukoyds/    C    d                igMdYah. PRIMARY ROADS
\ j~~~~~~hl               () Boni Baq Ann Ay >   Woo, Srbih'.                                                               -: - -i - -  TRACKS
L So ~~~~~~Naqeel A2Qlu                                                                                                            3lhO PROPOSEDOROADS
J   az    *OMustymir  *.           /AGRICULTRAL AREAS
Mochai                                                                                                                                      ...i)ke    l-uXqs  5---         GOVFERNORATE BOUNDARIS AND NUMBERtS
X  2/ ArnFarsh  3thtnjibal                                                                    *-*-* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Atbtha Al FajrA * R!gi  bADEN 46                              48                                soo                                 5



