FOFFICIAL REDIT NUMBER 1393 GR
DOCU M E NTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Reconstruction Import Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1393 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               /6            ,1983, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (hereinafter cKl1ed the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tio'I).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
aosist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Pioject described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Bank of Ghana
with the B^.rrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Bank of Ghana the pro-
ceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
term and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Bank of Ghana;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Bank of Ghana of even date herewith, as the


﻿-2-
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement.
(b)  "Subsidiary  Agreement"   means  the  agreement   to  be
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)  "Economic Recovery Program" means the Borrower's pro-
gram for economic recovery as announced in the Borrower's Budget
Statement and Economic Policy for 1983 dated April 2.1, 1983.
(d)  "Interministerial Committee" means the committee to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
(e)  "Technical Committee" means the committee to be estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment.
(f)  "Project Unit" means the Project unit to be established
in the Bank of Ghana pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project
Agreement.
(g)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
(h)  "Counterpart Funds Account" means the account to be
opened and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-3-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain a special account in a commercial
bank in London satisfactory to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1993, and ending March 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Bank of Ghana is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Bank of Ghana to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Bank of Ghana to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Bank of Ghana under a subsidiary agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank of Ghana.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain an Interministerial Committee under the direction. of the
Coordinating  Secretary   of  the  Provisional  National   Defense
Council of the Borrower and consisting of the Secretary of the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the
Governor of the Bank of Ghana with the participation, as appro-
priate, of the Secretaries of the Borrower's Ministries of Trans-
port and Agriculture, such Interministerial Committee to provide
interministerial coordination and policy guidance for the Pro-
ject.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain a Technical Committee under the direction of a senior
officer of the Bank of Ghana, whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association, and consisting of
representatives of the Borrower's Ministries of Finance, Trans-
port, Agriculture and Trade and the project coordinator referred
to in Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement, such Technical
Committee to be responsible for the coordination, monitoring and
supervision of all Project activities.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the pro-
curement of goods under the Project, the Borrower shall employ
procurement agents whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such procurement agents to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than thirty days after the date set forth in
Section 5.03 of this Agreement, open and thereafter maintain a
counterpart funds account in the Bank of Ghana;
(b) instruct the Bank of Ghana to deposit in such Counter-
part Funds Account the local currency funds generated from the
sale of foreign exchange by the Bank of Ghana under the Credit;
and
(c) use such funds for the recurrent and capital costs of
priority activities under the Economic Recovery Program.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1983,
review with the Association the Borrower's program for removing
the subsidy provided to the domestic price of fertilizer imports,
and thereafter take all measures necessary to remove such subsidy
in accordance with such program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall review, on a semi-annual
basis, the level and commodity coverage of the tariffs on road
transport-and, following consultation with the Association, make
adjustments to such tariffs as necessary or appropriate to main-
tain adequate financial incentives to road transport operators. ,
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall review, on an annual basis,
the prices paid to farmers for the purchase of cocoa and, follow-
ing consultation with the Association, make adjustments to such
prices as necessary or appropriate to maintain such prices at an
incentive level, the announcement of such adjustments to be made
sufficiently in advance of the beginning of the cropping season.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall assist the Bank of Ghana in
the preparation of the report referred to in Section 2.06 (c) of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Bank of Ghana shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Borrower will be able to carry out the Economic Recovery Program
or the Bank of Ghana will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) Act 182 of 1963 of the Borrower, as amended, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Bank of Ghana
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Bank of Ghana or for the suspension of its opera-
tions.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-8-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the borrower and the Bank of Ghana;
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) the procurement agents referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement have been employed.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Bank of Ghana, and is legally binding upon the
Bank of Ghana in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                 /          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Principal Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Republic of Ghana
Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
Accra, Ghana


﻿-9-
Cable address:
ECONOMICON
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
,  Regione" dice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Imported Goods Eligible for
Financing under the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of services and
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  SDR Equivalent)
(1) Agricultural Sector:
(a)  Insecticides                              2,770,000
(b)  Sprayers                                   3,610,000
(c)  Fertilizers                               4,810,000
(d) Weedicides and pesticides                  1,660,000
(e)  Tools and equipment                       2,030,000
(f)  Spares for tractors                         920,000
(2) Transport Sector:
(a) Truck tires (private garages)              7,950,000
(b) Truck tires (state corporations)           2,220,000
(c) Truck spares                               3,330,000
(d) Truck batteries                              740,000
(e) Retreading material                          370,000
(3)  Consultants services, office equipment           650,000
and supplies
(4)  Initial Deposit into Special Account            4,620,000
(5) Unallocated                                      1,320,000
TOTAL    37,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after May 1, 1983;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) expenditures for goods (not including office equipment
and supplies) procured under invoices of less than the equivalent
of $20,000.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide financial assistance to support
the Borrower's Economic Recovery Program by providing foreign
exchange for the importation into Ghana of equipment, spare parts
and materials for the agricultural and transport sectors as set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in various
currencies equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (4) and
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) and (2), and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, such documents and other evidence as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request showing that such payment was
made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, n further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1) and
(2) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any special commit-
ment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial depo-
sit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit for the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana and
shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made
only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or


﻿- 15 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


