Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H154-0-CAM 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Regional HIV/AIDS  Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
CENTRAL AMERICA INTEGRATION SYSTEM 
 
Dated April 15, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H154-0-CAM 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the CENTRAL AMERICA 
INTEGRATION SYSTEM (the Recipient or SICA). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient is a duly established international organization and 
represents acting through its General Secretariat that it has the necessary legal capacity 
and powers to enter into this Agreement and perform its obligations herein set forth; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.07 
(a) and/or (c) of this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“COMISCA” means the Central American Council of Ministers of 
Health established within SICA pursuant to the Minutes signed by the ministries of health 
of the Republics of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and 
Panamá on August 18, 2000; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Entity” means an entity, association or federation, vested with 
legal personality and operating in any of the Member Countries and eligible for 
implementation of Prevention Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Financial Management Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus; 
(i)  
“ICGES” 
means 
Instituto Conmemorativo Gorgas de Estudios de la 
Salud, 
the health research institute operating pursuant to Law No. 78 of the Republic of 
Panamá dated December 17, 2003; 
(j) 
“ICGES Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“ICGES Regional Laboratory Operational Guidelines” means the 
guidelines referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Indicators Letter” means the letter dated February 22, 2005 from the 
Recipient to the Association setting forth the Project monitoring indicators; 
(m) 
“IPP” means the indigenous peoples plan set forth in the letter from the 
Recipient to the Association dated February 22, 2005; 
(n) 
“Member Country” means any of the following Republics, all members 
of the Recipient and beneficiaries of the Project: El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua and Panamá; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Model Subproject Implementation Agreement”  means the agreement 
referred to in section 3.06 (a) (vi) of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement; 
(q) 
“PAHO” means the Pan American Health Organization; 
(r) 
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Prevention Subproject” means a subproject to be carried out  under Part 
D.2 of the Project by an Eligible Entity selected, carried out, supervised and monitored in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
February 23, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(u) 
“Regional Laboratory” means the laboratory to be established under Part 
A
of the Project; 
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 (w) 
“SICA” 
means 
Sistema de Integración Centroamericana,
 an 
international organization created by the 
Protocolo de
 
Tegucigalpa
 entered into by the 
Republics of Costa Rica
,
Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Panamá on 
December 13, 1991; 
(x) 
“SICA/SISCA Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and SISCA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
SICA/SISCA Agreement; 
(y) “SISCA” 
means 
Secretaría de la Integración Social,
 the Secretariat of 
the Central American Social Integration Subsystem of SICA, established and with 
juridical personality granted by the Treaty of El Salvador entered into by the Republics of 
Page  5
-
4
-
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panamá on March 30, 
1995; 
(z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement; 
(aa) 
“STI” means a sexually transmitted infection; 
(bb) 
“Subproject Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“UNAIDS” means the United Nations Joint HIV/AIDS Programme; and 
(dd) 
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million two hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,260,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2010 or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Member Countries; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. 
Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December 1 in each year. 
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Recipient acting through its General Secretariat declares 
its commitment to the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, under the overall guidance of 
COMISCA and the technical assistance of SISCA, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate health, technical, administrative, financial, social, 
educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall enter into an agreement with SISCA, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include, 
inter alia
,
SISCA’s obligation to provide technical assistance in the implementation of 
the Project. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the SICA/SISCA Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SICA/SISCA 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  7
-
6
-
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
regional plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. 
(a) The Recipient shall, prior to the implementation of Part A of 
the Project, enter into an agreement with ICGES under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
ICGES obligations in the implementation of Part A of the 
Project; 
(ii) 
that the coordinator of the Regional Laboratory will be appointed 
by COMISCA, and 
(iii) 
that the operations of the Regional Laboratory will be under the 
technical oversight of an advisory council to be integrated by the 
heads of the Member Countries’ laboratories. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, prior to carrying out a Prevention Subproject, enter 
into an agreement (the Subproject Implementation Agreement) with the Eligible Entity, 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and substantially in accordance 
with the terms of the Model Subproject Implementation Agreement, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the obligation of said Eligible Entity to: (A) carry out the 
Prevention Subproject; (B) comply with the procurement 
provisions of this Agreement; and (C) enable the Recipient to 
Page  8
-
7
-
supervise and monitor the implementation of the Prevention 
Subproject; and 
(ii) 
the Recipient’s obligation to undertake all necessary actions to 
permit the Recipient’s and the Association’s representatives to 
visit said entity’s facilities in the country in which said entity has 
established its legal residence for purposes related to the Grant. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the ICGES Agreement and each Subproject Implementation Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the ICGES 
Agreement and/or any Subproject Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.05. 
(a) The Recipient shall, not later than a year after the Effective 
Date, adopt and cause ICGES to adopt, in respect of the Regional Laboratory, operational 
guidelines, acceptable to the Association, to set forth the functional responsibilities of 
ICGES and SICA/SISCA in the operation of the Regional Laboratory; and 
(b) 
for purposes of ensuring the sustainability in the operation of the 
Regional Laboratory after the Closing Date, the Recipient shall take measures as shall be 
needed to seek the Member Countries’ support in the establishment, within four years 
from the Effective Date, of an endowment fund, with contributions from the Member 
Countries and other donors as the case may be, for the maintenance and operation of such 
Regional Laboratory. 
Section 3.06. 
(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the 
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Association, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the construction guidelines for small works under Part A.1 of the 
Project; 
(ii) 
the biomedical waste management and disposal system and 
procedures of the Regional Laboratory; 
(iii) 
the guidelines for the preparation of Annual Action Plans and the 
financial management and procurement procedures (including an 
acceptable procurement filing system) under the Grant;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
the criteria for the selection and monitoring of Eligible Entities; 
(v) 
the criteria and procedures for the selection, approval, carrying 
out, monitoring and supervision of Prevention Subprojects; and 
(vi) 
a model Subproject Implementation Agreement. 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.07. 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in year 2006, furnish to the Association, for its approval, an annual action plan 
(the Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project activities to 
be carried out by the Recipient, during the calendar year following the presentation of 
each said plan; and (ii) the updated disbursement schedule for each said Project activities; 
(b) 
thereafter implement and cause to be implemented said Annual Action 
Plan in accordance with its terms; and 
(c) 
carry out and cause to be carried out the Annual Action Plan for the year 
2005 (as approved by the Association prior to the date of this Agreement) in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 3.08. 
(a) The Recipient shall operate and maintain within SISCA, at all 
times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with a 
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, including, 
inter 
alia
,
the responsibility of the PCU to coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out 
of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Regional Project manager with expertise in administrative 
and financial matters and staffed with adequate professional, fiduciary and administrative 
personnel (including procurement and financial experts), all with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 3.09.  The Recipient shall carry out the IPP in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.10.  The Recipient shall: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Indicators 
Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than October 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, starting in the year 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November 30 of each year during 
Project implementation, starting in the year 2005, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
Page  11
-
10
-
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation (as described in the corresponding Annual 
Action Plan); and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Law No. 78 of the Republic of Panamá referred to in Section 1.02 (i) of 
this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of ICGES to perform any of its obligations 
under the ICGES Agreement or for the Regional Laboratory to be operated. 
(b) 
The endowment fund referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement 
shall have failed to become effective by November 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate 
funds for the operation of the Regional Laboratory are or will be made available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Recipient under this Agreement.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual in a manner 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
the Recipient has established the PCU and hired at least the Regional 
Project manager and the procurement and financial experts referred to in Section 3.08 of 
this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the SICA/SISCA Agreement has been entered into. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the SICA/SISCA Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by SISCA, and is legally binding upon SISCA in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date July 14, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. 
The Secretary General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
For the Recipient: 
 
Boulevard Orden de Malta 470 
 
Urbanización Santa Elena 
 
Antiguo Cuscatlán 
 
El Salvador 
 
Facsimile:  503-248-8800 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Rebeca Santos 
Authorized Representative 
 
CENTRAL AMERICAN INTEGRATION SYSTEM 
 
By
 /s/ Aníbal Quiñones 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Goods, works, Operating 
 
Costs and consultants’ services 
 for: 
 
(a)  Part A.1 of the Project 
850,000 
100% 
 
(b)  Parts A.2 through A.6 
1,380,000 
100% of expenditures 
 
of
the Project 
 
incurred after one year 
 
after the Effective Date 
 
(2) 
Goods, consultants’ services, 
1,970,000 
100% 
 
training and Operating Costs 
 
for Parts B, C, D.1, D.3 
 
and E of the Project 
 
(3) 
Prevention Subprojects 
590,000 
100% of the cost of 
 
goods and services 
 
under the Subproject 
 
(4) Unallocated 
470,000
TOTAL 5,260,000
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-
diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), rental of training facilities and equipment 
and fees charged to trainees by educational institutions under the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures that 
would not have been incurred by the Recipient absent the Project, for transportation and 
per-diem costs of its staff, office rent and utilities, operation and maintenance of office 
equipment, and non-durable goods (excluding laboratory reagents), all needed for the 
implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR26,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2005; 
(b) 
payments made for Category (1) unless the ICGES Agreement has been 
entered into; and 
(c) 
payments made for Sub-Category 1 (b) unless the ICGES Regional 
Laboratory Operational Guidelines have been issued and are acceptable to the 
Association. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for Prevention Subprojects and for expenditures 
under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (c) Operating Costs, training and Prevention Subprojects, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
Page  18
-
17
-
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Page  19
-
18
-
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  21
-
20
-
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to provide knowledge and tools to decision makers 
in the Member Countries to manage and control HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic 
infections. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Regional Laboratory
Establishment and initial operation of a highly specialized regional laboratory 
within ICGES for use by the Member Countries (the Regional Laboratory) including: 
1. 
Reconstruction of ICGES’ facilities to establish the Regional Laboratory, 
equipping as required and initial operation. 
2. 
Carrying out of confirmatory HIV tests and specialized diagnostics in the areas of 
HIV, STIs and opportunistic infections. 
3. 
Training of workers of laboratories of the Member Countries on HIV/AIDS 
related technologies. 
4. 
Development of information systems for the Regional Laboratory and 
laboratories of the Member Countries undertaking HIV/AIDS testing. 
5. 
Carrying out of research on specialized HIV/AIDS tests. 
6. 
Carrying out of quality control of laboratories of Member Countries undertaking 
HIV/AIDS tests, assessing their capabilities and transferring laboratory technologies 
applicable to HIV/AIDS. 
Part B
:
Epidemiological Surveillance
1. 
Setting up a regional epidemiological surveillance system which would combine 
several data streams (including AIDS, HIV, STIs and behavioral surveillance) into a 
comprehensive data stream and thus enable a better characterization of the nature of the 
Page  24
-
23
-
HIV/AIDS epidemics in Central America, including integration and dissemination of the 
relevant data from Member Countries. 
2. 
Carrying out of a strategy for the surveillance of sentinel sites. 
3. 
Establishment of a regional training program which would include training in 
implementation, analysis and use of coordinated surveillance systems, management, 
monitoring and assessment of national HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs, and 
application and use of surveillance information systems. 
4. 
Carrying out of regionally coordinated sentinel surveys among the most 
vulnerable groups (such as seasonal mobile workers, commercial sex workers, and 
highly-vulnerable ethnic groups), and of internet dissemination of statistics on 
prevalence, incidence, risk factors, and other information for epidemiological 
surveillance. 
Part C
:
Strengthening the Regional Response Capacity
Harmonization of legal and institutional frameworks needed to scale up strategic 
interventions to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemics and strengthen leadership and 
political commitment of the Member Countries to the implementation of an action plan 
with common policies and strategies including: 
1. 
Carrying out of a desk review, and sharing of best practices, at the regional level 
with health and non-health institutions and civil society representatives, to examine the 
HIV/AIDS legal framework including civil rights, integral treatment access, and drug and 
laboratory supplies regulations to look towards the adoption of common criteria and a 
common agency to make the scientific and medical determinations of quality, safety, 
effectiveness and marketing. 
2. 
Carrying out of specialized workshops on the subjects included in Part C.1 
above, including those specially designed for ethnic groups (Garífuna, Kuna and other 
groups) in vulnerable areas. 
Part D
:
Prevention in Mobile Populations
Carrying out of prevention initiatives aimed to reduce the vulnerability of truck 
drivers, seasonal mobile workers, commercial sex workers and other populations at risk 
for contracting HIV/AIDS and other STIs including: 
Page  25
-
24
-
1. 
Strengthening coordination across sectors, both at the Member Country and 
regional levels, through the carrying out of meetings and workshops with key 
stakeholders and agencies. 
2. 
Carrying out of preventive interventions in one or more of the Member Countries 
(the Prevention Subprojects). 
3. 
Training of Member Countries’ staff working with mobile populations. 
Part E
:
Project Management
Establishment and operation of the PCU including provision of experts, 
computing and office equipment and furniture as required. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 30, 2010. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited 
International 
Bidding
.
Specialized medical supplies and laboratory 
equipment, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited International 
Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding of the Republic of El Salvador and/or other Member Countries, using standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  27
-
26
-
3. Shopping
.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; 
(b) specialized medical supplies and laboratory equipment with the prior agreement of the 
Association; and (c) works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Specialized medical supplies and laboratory equipment 
which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Specialized medical supplies and laboratory 
equipment which the Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.1 of the 
Procurement Guidelines may be procured directly from UNICEF, UNAIDS, PAHO and 
other United Nations agencies as shall be agreed with the Association in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement
 of
Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely consultants from El Salvador and/or other 
Member Countries. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 “Section 
1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable 
to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications set 
forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
Page  29
-
28
-
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under the 
Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind imposed by, 
or in the territory of, the Member Countries.” 
7. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Member Countries on the goods or services to be financed 
Page  30
-
29
-
under the Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply. Financing 
of
such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits and 
grants. To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that the 
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the 
Association may, by notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Development 
Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a) (ii) and (c) (i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(b) 
Sec
tion 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 9. 
Section 8.01 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member Countries.” 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant Agreement.”
 
