                                            Document of
                                         The WorldBank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                Report No: 30428




                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ON A

                                       PROPOSEDGRANT

      INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR5.26MILLION(US$8.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                       CENTRALAMERICA INTEGRATIONSYSTEM

                                               FORA

                                REGIONALHIV/AIDS PROJECT

                                         MARCH3,2005




HumanDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
CentralAmerica Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective Date N/A)
                              CurrencyUnit =
                                       SDR 1 = US$ 1.52
                                    US$O.66     = SDR1

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC    Allocation By Cost-effectiveness                 MSM         Menwho have Sex with Men
AIDS   Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome               MTCT        Mother to Child Transmission
ART    Anti RetroviralTreatment                         NAP         National Action Plan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
CDC     U S Centers for Disease Control                 NICs        NationalInitiative Committees for HIV-
                                                                    AIDS prevention inmobile population
csw     Commercial Sex Worker                           01          Opportunistic Infections
COCISS  Central American Council of Social Security     PAHO        PanAmerican Health Organization
        Institutions
COMISCA CentralAmerican Council ofMinistersof           PANCAP PanCaribbeanPartnershipAgainst
        Health                                                      HIViAIDS
CARICOM CaribbeanCommunity and CommonMarket             PASCA       Central American HIV/AIDS Prevention
                                                                    Project
GFATM   Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and          PCU         Project Coordinator Unit
        Malaria
GNP     GrossNational Product                           PLWA        People Living With HIViAIDS
GTZ     GermanTechnical Cooperation                     RIC         Regional Initiative Committee for HIV-
                                                                    AIDS prevention inmobile population
HIV    Human Immune-Deficiency Virus                     SG-SICA    General Secretariatof General Central
                                                                    American Integration System
ICB    International Competitive Bidding                 SICA       Central American Integration System
IDA    International Development Association             SISCA      Central American Secretariatfor Social
                                                                    Integration
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank                   SOE        Statement of Expenditures
IDU    InjectingDrug Users                               STI        Sexually Transmitted Infections
ICGES  Gorgas Memorial Institute For Health              TB         Tuberculosis
       Research
IOM    International Organization for Migration          UNAIDS     UnitedNations Programfor HIViAIDS
KFW    GermanFinancial Cooperation                       UNDCP      UnitedNations DrugControl Program
LAC    Latin American and Caribbean Region               UNDP       UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
MCS    PASCA Multi-country Study                         UNF        UnitedNation Foundation
MDGs   Millennium Development Goals                      USAID      UnitedStates Agency for International
                                                                    Development
MOH    Ministry ofHealth                                 WHO        World Health Organization

                        Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                     Country Director:        Jane Armitage
                        Sector Director:      EvangelineJavier
                       Sector Manager:         Cristian Baeza (Acting)
                         Sector Leader:       Laura Rawlings
                    Task Team Leader:         Marcel0 Bortman

                                                                                                FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                                         CENTRALAMERICA

                               REGIONAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT

                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS




   A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                     .................................................................  3
      1. Regionandsector issues                                                                                                             3
      2. Rationale f o r Bank involvement                                                                                                   4
      3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                                                                           5

    B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION              .................................................................................................    6
      1. Lendinginstrument                                                                                                                  6
      2. Project development objective and key indicators                                                                                   6
      3. Project components                                                                                                                 7
      4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                                                                8
      5. Project alternatives considered and reasons f o r rejection                                                                        8

    C. IMPLEMENTATION          ..........................................................................................................   9
      1. Partnershiparrangements                                                                                                            9
      2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements                                                                                        9

      3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results                                                                                      9
      4. Sustainability                                                                                                                    10

      5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects                                                                                  10

      6. Grant conditions and covenants                                                                                                     10

    D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY             .................................................................................................     11
      1. Economic andfinancial analyses                                                                                                     11
      2. Technical                                                                                                                          11
      3. Fiduciary                                                                                                                          11
      4. Social                                                                                                                             12
      5. Environment                                                                                                                        13
      6. Safeguardpolicies                                                                                                                  13
      7. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness                                                                                                      13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
IFC authorization.

Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                              .........................................................      14

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                     .................19
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                       ........................................................................       21

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription            ......................................................................................       25

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................        28

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 .................................................................................       29

Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................   32

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements               ......................................................................................       35

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................       44

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ............................................................................................        49

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision                       .....................................................................      56

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                .................................................................................       58

Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits                 ..............................................................................       59

Annex 14: Country at a Glance      .................................................................................................        59

Annex 15: Map: IBRD33823     ......................................................................................................         59

                                   CENTRAL AMERICA
                       CENTRAL AMERICA REGIONAL HIV/AIDS
                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                          LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
                                          LCSHH

Date: March3, 2005                            Team Leader: Marcel0 Bortman
Country Director: Jane Armitage               Sectors: Health (100%)
Sector ManagedDirector: Evangeline Javier     Themes: Other communicable diseases
                                              (P);HIV/AIDS (P);Health systemperformance
                                              (S);Population and reproductive health (S)
Project ID: PO82243                           Environmental screening category: Partial
                                              Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguardscreeningcategory:
                                  Project FinancingData
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit  [X I Grant   [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 8.00
Proposedterms:




Borrower: Central American Integration System
ResponsibleAgency: Central American Integration System



FY           2005     2006     2007     2008    2009      2010       0        0         0
Annual        1.o      1.8      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.o      0.00      0.00      0.00
Cumulative    1.O      2.8      4.2      5.6      7.0      8.00     0         0         0

Ref: PAD D.7
Project development objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project development objective is to provide knowledge and tools to decision makers inall
countries inthe region to manage and control HIV/AIDSand other opportunistic infections        ,
This objective would be achieved by providing countries with: (a) better access to highquality
diagnosis o f HIVIAIDSinfections; (b) a regional second-generation surveillance systemfor the
epidemic; (c) crosslfertilization o f better practices inepidemic prevention and control; and (d)
mechanismsto reduce the mobile populations vulnerability to HIV/AIDS.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref: PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component Iwill support the establishment o f a laboratory will act as a regional reference
diagnostic center
Component I1will set up a second generation epidemiological surveillance system
Component I11will seek to increase the harmonization o f legal and institutionalframeworks
neededto scale up strategic interventionsto respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemics
Component IV will contribute to reduce the vulnerability o f mobile populations to HIV/AIDS
and other STIs Component V will support the Project Administration Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment OP/BP/GP 4.01and Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas
OP 4.10)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref: PAD C.7
Board presentation:
NIA

Loan/credit effectiveness:
NIA

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
N/A




                                                    2

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Regionand sector issues
Inthe past 20 years, about 600,000 people inthe Latin America and Caribbean Region (LAC) have died
from AIDS. Today, two million people live with HIV/AIDS and approximately 567 contract the HIV
virus every day. Inthe six Central American countries (El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua and Panama), the HIV/AIDS epidemic i s serious and worsening. The number o f reported
AIDS cases reached about 37,500 in the period from 1998 to 2003 and deaths from AIDS are among the
top ten causes o f death inthree out o f these six countries.

The six countries in Central America share certain characteristics-they           are comparatively small, have
active trade and substantial internal and external migration with other regions (Le. Mexico and United
States). Yet, the patterns o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic have marked differences across countries. Official
adult HIV prevalence estimates are highest for Honduras (1.6 percent), followed by Panama (1.5 percent),
Guatemala (1 percent), El Salvador (0.6 percent), Costa Rica (0.6 percent), and Nicaragua (0.2 percent),
but surveillance systems in all these countries have ma-jor problems o f coverage, under-diagnosis and
underreporting. Testing is not widely available, and more than 70 percent o f all HIV cases are only
diagnosed once people become symptomatic.

A recent multi-country sentinel survey was conducted by the Central America HIV/AIDS Prevention
Project (PASCA), executed by the Academy for Educational Development. to assess the extent o f the
epidemic. This survey clearly shows that the epidemic i s still mainly concentrated in high-risk
populations-men      who have sex with men (MSM) and commercial sex workers (CSW). Prisoners and
the Garifunas (an Afro-Caribbean population group), street children and the security forces (police,
military) are probably also high-risk groups. HIV transmission in Central America i s primarily due to
heterosexual sex, which is more similar to the Caribbean than the South American pattern. In addition,
per capita spendingin 2000 was very low in all countries ranging from one to three dollars per inhabitant.
Annex 1 provides more detailed information about the epidemic in each country.

All six countries have a national HIV/AIDS program, including strategic plans to prevent and control the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, development o f surveillance systems, access to voluntary counseling and to HIV
testing, behavior change and condom distribution campaigns targeted to high-risk groups, and the
promotion and defense o f the human rights o f people living with HIV/AIDS. However, implementation
o f these national strategic plans has been very slow. All the HIV/AIDS programs work independently
within the ministries o f health (MOH), and all o f the countries have passed special laws to protect those
living with HIV/AIDS and their families. The success o f these programs varies from country to country
but, generally, indicators show poor regional achievements. Each country needs to strengthen and scale-
up its strategic plans.      There is substantial scope to enhance regional cooperation as well, taking
advantage o f economies o f scale, good regional cooperation and the nature o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Regional initiatives will be most fruitful in the areas o f behavior change communication targeted at high-
risk groups and mobile populations, implementation of standardized second-generation HIV/AIDS and
sexually transmitted infections (STI) surveillance systems', the development a regional legal framework,
and improvements in access to rapid HIV testing, HIV/AIDS special tests, and STI and opportunistic
infections (01) diagnosis.

Most o f the countries are also trying to scale-up publicly-financed access to antiretroviral treatment
(ART) and all countries are trying to strengthen the treatment o f opportunistic infections, increasing the
budget needed to support their HIV/AIDS programs. In many cases, investments in these actions have

     Second-generationsurveillance seeks to combine severaldata streams, includingAIDS case surveillance, HIV
     seroprevalence surveillance, STI surveillance, andbehavioralsurveillance, into a comprehensive data stream.


                                                         3

implied limiting resources for prevention. At the same time, Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs)
are active in prevention, care, and treatment in all six Central American countries, with support from
governments and international agencies. It i s only recently that the governments in Central America have
realized the seriousness o f the impact o f HIV/AIDS on development and have taken initiatives to
strengthen prevention, surveillance, advocacy, national capacity and training, anti-discrimination and civil
rights and regional coordination.      However, a stronger concerted effort to address the HIV/AIDS
epidemic is needed. The Central America Council o f Ministers o f Health (COMISCA) has become a key
forum for promoting and agreeing on initiatives to address the issues mentioned above.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement
Most o f the activities included in national action plans are best carried out at the country level. There are
however, several aspects that can be best addressed at the regional level because o f economies o f scale or
the benefits o f coordinating across countries. These areas include: scaling-up successful initiatives,
strengthening civil society participation, preventing HIV/AIDS in mobile populations, and following a
comprehensive approach to prevention, care, treatment and institutional capacity.           At present, most
donors are supporting country-level efforts. All countries now have access to Global Fundresources, and
several projects are supporting national HIV/AIDS programs as detailed inAnnex 2. The current regional
challenge is how to scale-up implementation capacity, and better focus efforts to have a larger impact on
curbing the epidemic. The interventions in this proposed Regional HIV/AIDS Project are critical for
supporting this effort since they are not funded by the Global Fund (the main source o f financing for
national programs).

Three donors--German Financial Cooperation (KfW), United Nation Foundation (UNF) and the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID)--have or are currently supporting coordinated
regional activities for HIV/AIDS, including condom social marketing, epidemiological surveillance and
prevention activities with mobile populations and maquila workers. Simultaneously, the Pan-American
Health Organization (PAHO), the United Nations Program for HJY/AIDS (UNAIDS), and the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control (CDC) are providing coordinated technical support at the regional level.
However, there is a gap in financial support for key HIV/AIDS activities that are best addressed
regionally. Such activities include regional training programs in HIV/AIDS program management and
epidemiological surveillance, the development o f a regional reference laboratory, a regionally coordinated
surveillance system, documentation and sharing o f best practices in prevention and care, and efforts to
prevent HIV inmobile populations.

The strategy for addressing HIV/AIDS in Central America is consistent with the World Bank's corporate
strategy for fighting the epidemic worldwide. HIV/AIDSposes an unparalleledthreat to global health and
well-being. With more than 40 million people worldwide currently living with HIV, the epidemic is
eroding human welfare, socioeconomic progress, productivity and social cohesion. Since the 1980s when
the epidemic began, the World Bank has been the single largest provider o f financial support for
HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. In the last few years, about US$2.0 billion has been
committed through grants, loans and credits for HIV/AIDS activities worldwide. The Bank's mission o f
reducing poverty and supporting development necessitates action on H N / A I D S . As such, fighting
HIV/AIDS is a core strategy of the World Bank Group's development agenda. To meet the HIV/AIDS
crisis, the World Bank's strategy i s focused on strengthening the capacity to respond to the W / A I D S
epidemic at regional, country, and sector levels, strengthening the capacity o f member countries to design,
implement, monitor and evaluate the effectiveness o f HJY/AIDS programs, building a substantially
stronger and more effective global response, and assisting in mobilizing additional resources at a global
level to beginto reverse and halt the epidemic.

Recently, two regional projects were approved under InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA) grants
to support regional efforts to coordinate and strengthen the impact o f national HIV/AIDS programs. In


                                                       4

March 2004, a US$9.0 million equivalent IDA grant was approved to fund the four-year Pan Caribbean
Partnership Against HIV/AIDS project (PANCAP) to be implementedby the Caribbean Community and
Common Market (CARICOM) Secretariat to benefit its members: Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic (observer member), Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica,
Montserrat, St. Lucia, Guyana, St. Kitts andNevis, St. Vincent andthe Grenadines, TrinidadandTobago,
and Suriname. Also, inJune 2004, an IDA grant ofUS$60.0 million equivalentwas approvedin support
of a regional program that aims to increase access to HIV/AIDS treatment in three African countries:
BurkinaFaso, Ghana, andMozambique.

The Bank has been supporting Central American governments as they develop initiatives needed to
prevent HIV and reverse the epidemic. The Bank has supported participatoryworkshops to understand
priorities for HIV prevention interventions and it has included small HIV/AIDS components in health
projects in Honduras and El Salvador. However, little demand is expected for Bank lending for
HIV/AIDS programs at the country-level since most countries are grappling with how to absorb grant
resources already committed from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis (TB), and Malaria and
other sources. The Central American governments have been working with PAHO and the CDC to
develop a regionalframework for setting up regionalHIV/AIDS second-generationsurveillance systems,
but little progress has beenmade, mainly due to a shortage of adequate financing. At this time, the Bank
i s in an idealpositionto make a meaningfulcontributionby supportingbadly-needed initiativesthat can
be best addressedwith a regionalperspective. This proposedRegionalHIV/AIDS Projectwould address
these needs by supporting regional efforts to: (a) develop a regionalHW/AIDS laboratory; (b) support
coordinated sentinel surveillance; (c) systematically share best practices in prevention, and (d) help
prevent HIV in mobile populations. Key donors and technical assistance agencies (the Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria, PAHO, UNAIDS, UNFPA, the International Organizationfor Migration-
IOM, the CDC, the KfW andUSAID) have indicatedtheir support for this approach.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes
Central American countries with the support of multilateral and bilateral agencies, NGOs, and civil
society organizations, have committedthemselves collectivelyto providea political framework to address
HIV/AIDS by developing and executing national plans to prevent and control the epidemic. These
commitments are complemented by initiatives aimed at strengthening national capacities to execute
effective national control programs, improving access to HIV/AIDS diagnosis, developing a regional
surveillance strategic plan, and by promotingbetter access to treatment for those living with HIV/AIDS,
as well as dissemination of information to high-risk populationsand measures to avoid discrimination
against infectedpersons.

All of the recent Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) for the six Central American countries have
identified the need to sustain social growth through promoting human development as a long-term
process, emphasizing requirements of soundhealthand education programs improvingaccess, equity and
qualified services for vulnerable groups. In particular, the objective of supportingprevention, diagnosis
and control of HIV/AIDS is explicitly highlightedin the CAS for Honduras (May 2003) and Costa Rica
(April 2004), and included in the Country Program Performance Indicator matrix for El Salvador
(November 2001 and the 2004/2009 CAS under preparation), and the Guatemala CAS also under
preparation.

The proposed Regional HIV/AIDS Project will support national action plans and enhance their
effectiveness at a regionallevel by supportingcross nationalcollaborationregardingbetter controlof the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, aiming at a reductionin the incidence of AIDS. This effort is also consistent with
achievingthe MillenniumDevelopmentGoal(MDG) #7: to halt HIV/AIDS by 2015 and beginto reverse
its spreading.



                                                   5

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument
The proposed Regional HIV/AIDS Project would be funded by an IDA sector investment grant provided
to the Central American Region (including six countries: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua and Panama), represented by the General Secretariat for the Central American Integration
System (SG-SICA), established by the heads o f state o f its member countries.

The Indivisibilitv Argument. The proposed project was designed to support the implementation of an
indivisible regional program to finance region-wide and non-country specific HIV/AIDS prevention and
control interventions.    The prevention and control o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic has been focused on
national projects and initiatives that have yet to reach their objectives because o f structural problems
linked to low incomes and unequal economic development, large mobile populations crossing permeable
borders, tourism as one o f the leading economic bases, and the absence o f a Regional Action Plan to
define coordinated prevention and management strategies. Therefore, HIV/AIDS prevention and control
efforts inCentral America require not only national programs, but also regional strategies and actions that
would reduce the risks o f gaps in the prevention and control o f the epidemic. A regional response to the
AIDS epidemic will address the need for coordination o f the limited resources and available capabilities
in many o f the countries and would help to bridge the gap between IDA and IBRD countries.                The
proposed project builds on the strengths o f Central America regional cooperation in health related issues.
The Central American Integration System and the Central American Council o f Ministers o f Health have
worked actively on building regional frameworks, and sharing knowledge and expertise across countries.

The proposed regional project i s consistent with IDA Grants FY05 Implementation Guidelines (paragraph
4) because it addresses a regional HIV/AIDS issue, promotes a public good o f multinational scope, and
provides services to populations beyond the reach o f national programs by scaling up existing initiatives
to support mobile populations and realizing economies o f scale that would not be practical to attain
through country-level action. In addition, the project has been endorsed by the governments o f all six
countries, and key regional institutions (COMISCA, the Central American Secretariat for Social
Integration-SISCA and SICA) have appropriate policies, procedures and regulations in place to enable
them to participate effectively in project implementation (see Annex 6). Furthermore, these agencies
have an adequate fiduciary framework in place to comply with IDA requirements.

2. Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators
The project development objective is to provide knowledge and tools to decision makers in all countries
inthe regionto manage and control HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic infections2. This objective would
be achieved by providing countries with: (a) better access to high quality diagnosis o f HIV/AIDS
infections; (b) a regional second-generation surveillance system for the epidemic; (c) cross/fertilization o f
better practices in epidemic prevention and control; and (d) mechanisms to reduce the mobile populations
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS.

The key project outcome will be the development and application o f a regional strategy and action plan to
prevent and control the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including: prevention and management strategies; respect
and promotion o f human rights; access to HIV testing, counseling and integrated treatment; HIV/AIDS
Regional Surveillance System, large-scale economic approach to purchase ART, lab tests and other




  Opportunistic infections are those mild to severe infectious diseases that are uncommon except when they are
given an "opportunity" to infect a person. The opportunity is usually a problem with the immune system (such as
HIV/AIDS).


                                                        6

related medical supplies (see Annex 3). This framework will constitute a Regional Action Plan agreed by
COMISCA.

3. Project components
The proposed project will include the following components (described inmore detail inAnnex 4) in a
five year implementationperiod:

I.RegionalLaboratory(US$ 3.8million,includingcontingencies). Thiscomponentwillsupportthe
establishment o f a laboratory that will act as a regional reference diagnostic center, carrying out
confirmatory   and specialized HIV and opportunistic infections testing. The regional laboratory would
also become a specialized regional training center on HIV/AIDS related technologies, develop
information systems specialized in HIV/AIDS tests, carry out specialized research on technologies for
testing HIV/AIDS viruses, become the regional center for quality control o f HIV/AIDS national
laboratories, perform quality control o f HIV-related supplies, and assess and transfer technologies to
national laboratories. Investments under this component would support the establishment o f the regional
laboratory (phase 1) and its operation its operation duringthe project life (phase 2). The facilities would
operate as part o f the Gorgas Memorial Institute for Health Research in Panama.

11. EpidemiologicalSurveillance (US$ 1.4 million, including contingencies). This component will
support the establishment o f a regional second-generation epidemiological surveillance system3 that
would enable a better characterization o f the nature o f the H N / A I D S epidemics in Central America. An
information system would be developed that would integrate country information and disseminate it
throughout the region. Data will be disaggregated, at least, by age, gender and ethnicity and whenever
possible, by population mobility. Investments under this component will include, in addition to the
information system, the establishment o f a regional training program, carrying out regionally coordinated
sentinel surveys among the most vulnerable groups (seasonal mobile workers, CSW, MSM, and highly-
vulnerable ethnic groups such as Garifuna and Kuna communities), and usingthe internet to disseminate
statistics on prevalence, incidence and risk factors. All o f these activities would be closely coordinated
with ongoing efforts by PAHO and the CDC aimed at replacing outdated surveillance approaches with
second-generation surveillance. The regional training program would include the development of regular
courses (curricula and materials) to be implemented rotationally inthe Central American countries.

111. Strengtheningthe RegionalResponse Capacity (US$ 0.6 million, including contingencies). This
component will seek to increase the harmonization o f legal and institutional frameworks needed to scale-
up strategic interventions to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.              It would also seek to strengthen
leadership and political commitment to developing a Regional Action Plan with common policies and
strategies for addressing the epidemic. A desk review and a series o f workshops at the regional level with
health and non-health institutions and civil society representations would examine the HIV/AIDS legal
framework including: civil rights, integral treatment access, and drug and lab supplies regulations to seek
the future adoption o f common criteria and a common agency to make the scientific and medical
determinations o f quality, safety and effectiveness. Workshops would also seek to share `best practices'
and unsuccessful approaches that drain resources. Special workshops will be organized for ethnic groups
(i.e. Garifuna, Kuna) in vulnerable areas.         A database o f best practices would be developed and
disseminated through the internet.




   Second-generation surveillance combines several data streams including AIDS case surveillance, HIV
seroprevalence surveillance, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) surveillance, and behavioral surveillance, into a
comprehensive data stream.


                                                        7

IV. Preventionin Mobile Populations (US% 1.3 million, including contingencies). The key objective
o f this component will be to contribute to reduce the vulnerability o f mobile populations to HIV/AIDS
and other STIs. Mobile populations, mainly truck drivers, seasonal workers, and CSWs, can be especially
vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other STIs and be a factor in the spread o f the epidemic. This component
will support ongoing and new prevention subprojects, (excluding treatment), carried out by Agencies,
NGOs or a group o f NGOs working in more than one country, selected through a competitive process. It
will also strengthen the abilities o f human resources working with mobile populations through training
programs.    This component will fund consultancy services, training programs and upgrading and
supporting new subprojects being undertaken by NGOs and selected through competitive processes.

V. Project Management (US$0.9 million, including contingencies). This component will focus on
project administration and will finance technical assistance o f five long-term technical consultants in the
Project Coordinating Unit PCU and computer and office equipment and furniture. The PCU will work
under SISCA supervision, and the Project Coordinator will be responsible for establishing and
maintaining liaison with SISCNCOMISCA, the Gorgas Institute, and the National HIV-AIDS programs.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Broad lessons have been learned in the organization and management o f effective national and
international HIV/AIDS prevention and control projects that have been financed to date.

The following lessons have been relevant to the designo fthe proposed project:
     0   The need to build strong regional commitments and constituencies advocating for HIV/AIDS
         prevention and control because the HIV/AIDS epidemic is, by its nature, a public health issue
         with substantial externalities cutting across geographic borders;
     0   The importance o f regional political leadership and advocacy to support the needs o f persons
         living with AIDS and the policies for large-scale drugs and lab supplies procurement and other
         drug cost control strategies, recognizingthe needs o f specific vulnerable groups in society. All of
         the above require multi-sectoral government support, regional actions and adequate budgets;
     0   The need to coordinate the collection and dissemination o f information to backstop and
         complement purely national actions;
     0   The identification and training o f professionals to alleviate the regional key constraint o f human
         resources; and
     0   The desirability o f sharing facilities, infrastructure and specialized services and sources o f
         professional expertise that would be beyond the means o f individual countries.

5. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The strategy o f supporting regional activities is a response to the need to address gaps in country-based
interventions and take advantage o f the positive externalities o f increased cross-national collaboration.
Although individual countries may have some funds to work on HIV/AIDS prevention and control,
resources are insufficient to finance regional activities.      This strategy also responds to the uneven
distribution o f financial and institutional capacity to address HIV/AIDS, generating the possibility o f
achieving scale economies inthe provision o f services as trans-national "public goods".

Individual country projects to support the improvement o f the six national laboratories and develop their
capacity to carry out highly-specialized functions were considered, but it would be more expensive and
would likely increase already existing regional disparities.       Implementation o f the new surveillance
framework independently would lead to a similar situation. Those countries launching a better
surveillance system would implement a faster and more developed second-generation surveillance system
than the others, increasing the existing gaps.




                                                       8

This proposed project would assist in accelerating SISCA's transformation so as to meet the increasing
and changing demands from member countries for HIV and TB laboratory services. It is anticipated that
the proposed project activities will achieve a number o f results that will assist the region in building its
capacity to meet the new and emerging challenges in preventing and controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS
and TB. These services and activities will benefitthe region as a whole and not a particular country.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
Not applicable.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements
The project will be implemented by the Central American Integration System (SICA) with the technical
assistance o f the Central American Secretariat for Social Integration (SISCA), located in San Salvador, El
Salvador, which has implemented some human development-related projects. SISCA i s an arm of the
Central American Integration System, (SICA), the permanent entity that manages the integration process
(created by the "Protocolo de Tegucigalpa", December, 1991) agreed by the heads of state of its member
countries. The Central American Commission of Ministers of Health (COMISCA), under SISCA, would
provide technical support and participate inkey decisions. The key management and coordinating unit-
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)-will        be located at SISCA and it will be headed by a Project
Coordinator who will have a small technical staff and specialized support from consultants as needed.
The PCU will have direct responsibility for implementing all activities related to epidemiological
surveillance, strengtheningthe response capacity and prevention in mobile populations. The HIV/AIDS
Regional Laboratory will be implementedin a decentralized manner attached to the Gorgas Institute in
Panama (See Annex 6). The SG-SICA, through its Administrative and Financial Directorate, will be
responsible for the financial management of the grant proceeds.

A coordinator to manage the HIV/AIDS Regional Laboratory will be appointed after a competitive
selection process managed by SISCA. The actual technical oversight of implementation and operation of
the regional laboratory will be entrusted to an advisory council consisting of the heads of the national
HIV/AIDS laboratories. In particular, this council will monitor the laboratory's implementation and
operation progress and it will endorse strategic plans and the annual operating program to be approved by
SISCA. This approach is expected to establish client orientation practices in the work of the regional
diagnostic center, providing services that respond adequately and effectively to the demands of the
national laboratories.   It should be noted that during the initial phases of establishing the regional
laboratory, the coordinator would play a project management role, which would evolve to a more
technical role after commissioning the facility.

The SG-SICA and SISCA, through the PCU, will be the guarantors of compliance with the requirements
and procedures established in the Grant Agreement and the Project Operational Manual, and will be
responsible for overseeing the satisfactory implementation o f the project. SISCA, also through the PCU,
will be responsible for monitoring the achievement of the project development objective and performance
indicators. Inparticular, the PCU will coordinate and facilitate activities of the regional diagnostic center,
providing financial resources and support with procurement and financial management activities,

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes/results
SISCA, through the PCU, will implement a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system designed to assess
the impacts of the implementation of the project components in the participating countries. The M&E
systemwill be specified inthe Operational Manual, including monitoring the achievement ofthe project's



                                                     9

performance indicators defined in the Results Framework (Annex 3).            The benchmarks established in
Annex 3 have been designed to reflect the evolution o f expected results for each component.

4. Sustainability
The key sustainability issue related to this project i s the continuous operation o f the HN/AIDS regional
laboratory after the project is completed. The SG-SICA and SISCA have agreed to seek commitment
letters from the Ministers o f Finance o f participating countries to support the laboratory financially after
the project i s implemented. The Grant Agreement would include a covenant requesting that the SG-SICA
and SISCA would follow up with each o f the six countries to set up and contribute to an endowment trust
fund duringproject implementation, by the fourth year o fProject implementation. The implementation o f
the regional surveillance system only needs initial technical and financial support from the project since it
i s estimated that coordinated national resources will be sufficient to maintain the Regional System
thereafter.

5. Critical risks and possible cont oversial aspects
Risk                                        Mitigation
SISCAISG-SICA do not have technical         SISCAISG-SICA have already successfully executedsome Human
capacity to execute the project.(Modest)    Development-relatedprojects andthe project would provide adequate
                                            resourcesto strengthentheir technical capacity to design and
                                            supervise projects.

Countriesfail to implement second-          Technical partners(PAHO/WHO, UNAIDS, CDC) are working with
generationsurveillancesystems. (Modest)     the countries andthe Bank to mitigate this risk.

Countriesfail to provide political support. SISCA will disseminateproject achievement during COMISCA
(Modest)                                    meetings and the President's Summit.

NGOs do not present adequate subprojects    Training and design support workshops would be implementedto
for financing under the mobile populations  improve subprojectdesigns, with participation of technical partners
component.(Modest)                          (PAHO/WHO, UNAIDS, IOM). Previousprojects suchas Protecting
                                            Migrant PopulationsinCentralAmerica andMexico from HIV/AIDS
                                            (MIAP) have developedcapacitiesto implement projects on this
                                            theme.


     ......
6. Grant conditions and covenants
Effectiveness conditions:
           Operational Manual agreeable to IDA adopted.
           SISCA has established the PCU and hired at least the Project Manager and the Procurement
           Specialist.
           The SICA/SISCA Agreement signed.

Other covenants:
           A Gorgas/SG-SICA agreement regulating the operational framework o f the Regional Laboratory
           signed will be a disbursement condition for Component 1-phase 1.
           Manual establishing operating practices for the Regional Laboratory will be a disbursement
           condition for Component 1- phase 2.
           The SG-SICA and SISCA will seek to establish o f an endowment trust fund during project
           implementation, by the fourth year.




                                                       10

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses
The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Central America is imposing a heavy economic and financial burden on
individuals, households and society. This financial burden i s disproportionately higher for low-income
households. Although the spread o f HIV/AIDS is mainly a result o f individual behavior and choices,
there is a compelling economic benefit from public action to prevent it and to control its spread.

The increase in expenditure associated with increased HIV/AIDS incidence diverts funds away from
productive savings, which in turn affects the levels o f investment that can be achieved. Depressed levels
of labor and capital affect the levels o f output from the various sectors and therefore overall GDP.

The region is challenged by the financial sustainability o f HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs
that have included a blend o f promotion, prevention, ART and care including the care for opportunistic
infections. The Global Fund has become the main source for financing national programs for treatment
and prevention, but the control o f the epidemic i s critical to avoid an incremental financial requirement
from the already over-stretched health sector budgets. In order to generate the highest possible benefits in
terms o f averted infections and reduced mortality, a subset o f interventions must be chosen from the menu
o f possible initiatives. In early 2002, the World Bank developed an assessment tool and applied it in
some Central American countries to help better understand which prevention activities should be well
funded ifthe epidemic is truly to be reversed as soon as possible.

The proposed project adds value to the effectiveness o f national programs by: (a) offering further options
for sharing information and experience; (b) developing a second-generation surveillance system that will
combine several data streams to provide comprehensive and opportune information to support more
precise interventions and impact evaluation; (c) contributing to tackling a key epidemic spread factor by
funding interventions with mobile populations; (d) creating access to a regional HIV/AIDS Laboratory
that will avoid duplicity or overlapping on high-cost lab techniques; and (e) creating a platform to develop
economy o f scale ways to reduce the cost o f drugs and lab supplies, increase efficiencies in service
delivery and further financial sustainability.

2. Technical
Technical aspects of this project are limited to the facilities to be established at the HIV/AIDS regional
laboratory, including information systems. The designs are not expected to pose any major technical
difficulties since they will follow well known technologies and standards. To ensure the appropriate
technical quality o f the design o f the laboratory facilities and its subsequent operation, UNAIDS,
PAHO/WHO and the CDC have agreed to provide the requiredtechnical assistance.

3. Fiduciary
Financial management. The Financial Management (FM) Assessment reviewed SISCA's experience
in managing donor-funded projects and its internal operating performance and procedures (budgeting,
accounting, internal control, auditing and reporting). The assessment concluded that SISCA's financial
management system meets the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The overall risk
assigned to the project i s moderate. The supervision plan and scope o f the external audit are designed to
manage the risks identified.

SISCA will be responsible for the preparationo f the project's financial statements and for thejustification
o f expenditures and the submission o f withdrawal (disbursement) requests to the World Bank. There will
be a single annual external report produced for the project (report will be provided to the Bank within six
months o f the end o f each fiscal year). The scope o f the audit, consistent with Bank's audit policy, will


                                                       11

contain a single opinion on special accounts, project accounts, and the project's "consolidated" financial
statements.   Annex 7 provides the results of the Bank's assessment and additional information on
financial management arrangements.

Procurement. An assessment o f the capacity o f SISCA has been carried out. The assessment reviewed
the organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the PCU and the
HIV/AIDS regional laboratory.

Annex 8. details the procurement processes that will be followed as well as the agreed institutional
strengthening requirements for SISCA and the PCU.

4. Social
An integrated social strategy is neededto contribute to reverse and halt the HIV/AIDS and STI epidemic
inthe six participating countries. A social strategy has been built into each one ofthe project components,
focusing on the most vulnerable groups: MSM, CSWs, STI patients, prisoners, indigenous groups (the
Garifuna in Honduras-Guatemala, the Kuna in Panama, some Maya in Guatemala), mobile populations
spreading the disease across borders, orphans and vulnerable youth. The bulk o f the strategy i s geared to:
(a) collecting and systematizing information and statistics; (b) discussing experiences, best practices and
lessons learned in each country and at the regional level; (c) disseminating information, data and lessons
learned; and (d) funding existing best practices and new initiatives to prevent HIV/AIDS in mobile
populations.

An assessment o f the current situation o f Indigenous Peoples and Afro-descendants with regards to the
epidemic in the project areas was carried out in November-December 2004 (self-standing report in
Spanish) and the main recommendations were incorporated inthe project design. An Indigenous Peoples
Plan (IPP) was developed to ensure full participation o f Indigenous and Afro-Central American peoples
during project implementation. The assessment included a desk review o f the legal, institutional and
epidemiological situation o f the indigenous and Afro-Central American in the project area. It also
included field consultations with the Garifuna in Honduras (and Guatemala), the most affected ethnic
group o f the region. An attempt to map HIV/AIDS among the Indigenous and Afro-Central American
peoples indicates that the disease is spread from urban to rural areas, as the poor migrate to urban centers,
ports, borders, tourism centers and cruises along the coasts, in search o f seasonal work in maquilas
(factories), plantations (banana, coffee, sugar cane, African palm trees), fishing, tourism and trade
industries. The IPP requires the inclusion o f representatives o f the most affected indigenous groups in the
National and Regional Committees (NICs and RIC) for successful project implementation.               It also
requires that SISCA carry out an inventory o f traditional and regional organizations working with
HIV/AIDS [Le. traditional networks o f comadronas/parteras (midwives), buyei (counselors/healers), and
ancianas (Elders)] to train them to contribute to the Epidemiological Surveillance under Component 2.
For the workshops under Component 3, the IPP identified corridors o f infection that include one or more
ethnic groups inone or more countries. The planned workshops will discuss regional strategies to combat
HIV/AIDSand STDs. The IPP includes selection criteria for proposals to be financed under Component
4, which will be reflected in the Project's Operational Manual. Finally, it provides a set o f outcome
indicators for monitoring and evaluation o f the IPP.

Background studies and workshops carried out in preparation for the Regional HIV/AIDS Project
corroborate the fact that the HIV/AIDS epidemic transcends the health sector to the social, economic,
cultural and political spheres o f participating countries. Therefore, integrated socio-cultural schemes are
needed to fight the epidemic. Assessments indicate that the epidemic travels across borders, making
mobile populations such as mobile workers, truck drivers, street or orphan children and stranded youth
also vulnerable to the epidemic.        Component 3 will be built on the Evaluation, Discussion and



                                                      12

Dissemination o f Best Practices for the Prevention and Control o f HIV/AIDS Among Vulnerable Groups
inCentral America financed under a BNPP grant.

5. Environment
The project does not foresee any major environmental impacts by establishing the HIV/AIDS regional
laboratory. The environmental studies focused on two areas. The first area i s the increased production o f
health care waste and the second area relates to the impacts caused by minor construction or renovation
activities for the Regional Laboratoty that will take place duringthe project. This project i s a Category B
project and triggers the OP 4.0 1 Environmental Assessment policy. An environmental impact and health
care waste management assessment were carried out by the GORGAS Institute and disclosed in the
Infoshop and by SISCA before appraisal. The plan aims at complying with Panamanian and international
standards regulating laboratory wastes and Bank safeguards. Additional considerations regarding these
aspects are summarized inAnnex 10.

6. Safeguard policies
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                    Yes                N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                       [XI               [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   [I                [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [ I               [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4,ll)                           [I                [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                           [ I               [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)                           [XI                [ I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            [ I               [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                    [ I                [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)4                                       [ I                [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                             [ I                [XI

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
The project meets regional implementation readiness criteria. Country Financing Parameters (CFPs) to
finance 100% o f eligible expenditures are already in place for Guatemala, Panama, El Salvador, and
Honduras. A draft CFP i s being finalized for Nicaragua. However, since Costa Rica and Nicaragua's
CFP are not yet in place (but will be submittedto also finance 100% o f eligible expenditures), the team
seeks the Board's waiver o f OP/BP 6.30 that stipulates a Borrower's minimum 10 percent cost sharing.
This request is justified on grounds that this project was designed to support the implementation o f an
indivisible regional program to finance region-wide and non-country specific HIV/AIDS prevention and
control interventions and Costa Rica and Nicaragua's CFP are expected to be approved shortly,




  By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
claims on the disputedareas.


                                                      13

                         Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
                             CENTRAL AMERICA RegionalHIV/AIDS Project
                                                           -

Despite the difficult economic and political conditions that the six Central American countries (El
 Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama) have confronted over the past few
decades, they have achieved significant progress in improving the health status o f their populations. In
the last 30 years, each country increased its life expectancy at birth by at least 10 years, infant mortality
rates fell by 40 percent, under-five mortality rates were reduced by half and maternal mortality rates have
been cut by about one-third. Even though these are important advances, the health status in Central
America remains below regional averages, and the pace o f progress on many important indicators has
been slow relative to other countries in the region or even compared to lower income level countries
around the world. This i s clearest in the four poorest countries o f the region--El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras and Nicaragua--where periods o f polarizationand radicalization o f social and political conflicts
tended to increase the social inequities and significantly limit the coverage that the weak health service
systems were able to provide.

The region is starting to show a polarized pattern o f epidemiologicaltransition, in which problems more
common to developed populations are increasing, demanding financial support, and overlapping with not
yet solved health priorities such as reducing highrates o f mortality (due to infectious diseases or external
causes), maternal and infant mortality and cervical cancer. The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Central America
i s increasingly serious, and although the epidemic continues to be concentrated in high-riskpopulations, it
is becoming generalized in some countries (see Table 1). The health system budgets in these countries
are already over-stretched by the existing burden o f diseases, and are now under the pressure o f the
additionalburden o f HIV/AIDS.

HIV transmission in Central America is primarily due to heterosexual sex, which is more similar to the
Caribbean than the South American pattern. Even though there are more men than women with AIDS in
Central America, the gender gap i s closing according to the World Bank report "HIV/AIDS in Central
America".


Table 1.EpidemiologicalInformation about the HIV/AIDS Epidemicin Central America



              Adult HIV M:FRatio         II[\'                  CSW by Place of Work 2001102             I-IIVprevalence

  Country     prevalence AIDS cascs
              end2001        (2001)


Costa Rica        0.6          7:I             <0.5% (1996)      N/A           N/A             N/A            N/A
El Salvador       0.6          3: 1              <1%(2001)      3.9484)       16.1 (31)     3.1 (453)         17.7 (293)
Guatemala         1.0         2.5:1          0.4-0.8%( 2000)   5.2 (521)      14.9 (74)     3.6 (447)         11.5 (165)
Iionduras         1.6         1.2:1          1.5-4.0% (1999)  10.4 (502)     14.0 (215)     7.7 (287)         13.0 (285)
Nicaragua        0.2           4: 1            <0.5%(1997)     0.4 (459)      1.4 (143)     0.0 (316)          9.3 (162)
Panama            1.5          3:l             <1.0%(1996)     1.9(416)        4.7(64)      1.4(352)          10.6 (235)

 1. PASCA Multisite Study on STIs and HIV. probabilistic sample incapital cities. census inport cities.
2. Sample is not representative. but rather drawn from men who volunteered to be tested. after seeing flyers and other
     promotionabout the study. from I'ASCA Multisite Study on STIs and HTV.
Source: UNAIDS, PASCA




                                                            14

Costa Rica
In Costa Rica, the HIVIAIDS epidemic is concentrated, especially in high-risk groups. The Ministry o f
Health has officially recorded 2,546 AIDS cases since 1983. After a peak in 1998, AIDS incidence
decreased to about 3 per 100,000 (Table 2). Costa Ricans aged 25 to 39 account for 58 percent o f all
HIV/AIDS cases. Costa Rica is one o f the few countries in Central America where HIV transmission via
M S M overshadows transmission via sex between men and women. Eighty-seven percent of the cases
have occurred among men, and almost two-thirds o f these have been homo/bisexual (60 percent), but the
role o f heterosexual transmission i s increasing and women are more affected. At the beginning o f the
1990s, the male/female ratio was higher than 20/1, but since 2000 this ratio has reduced to about 5-7 to 1.
Four percent of the total reported cases were attributed to blood transfusions and 1.2 percent transmitted
from mother to child. The role o f transmission among Injecting DrugUsers (IDUs) seems to be very low
with about 1 percent ofthe total AIDS cases.


         Table 2. AIDS IncidenceRate in Costa Rica 1990-2003 (Rates per 100,000 inhabitants)

       Year       Rate          Year        Rate           Year      Rate           Year       Rate
       1990        2.6          1994         5.3           1998       8.2           2002        2.9
       1991         3           1995         6.7           1999       6.2           2003        3.3
       1992        3.9          1996         5.6           2000       2.8
       1993        4.1          1997         6.7           2001       3.8



Guatemala
The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Guatemala is accelerating, with an estimated 75,000 people currently living
with HIV/AIDS, an estimated 23,000 AIDS cases, and around 6,600 AIDS cases reported.                Sexual
transmission i s the predominant mode of transmission (93 percent), while five percent o f reported cases
were attributed to blood transfusions and two percent transmitted from mother to child. In 2000, the
male/female ratio was 2.5 and i s decreasing. The epidemic is concentrated among CSWs and MSMs
(Table 3), but it has been estimated that by 2010, the number o f people living with HIV/AIDS will reach
120,000 (Table 4).
                   Table 3. HIV Seroprevalence in Low- and High-risk Groups 2002

       Site                 Center or Study               Year      Group            Num     %HIV
       GuatemalaCity        HospitalRoosevelt             2000      Pregnantwomen     801      0.8
       GuatemalaCity        IGSS Pamplona                 2000      Pregnantwomen    1,170    0.25
      Antigua City          HospitalNacional              2000      Pregnantwomen     352       0
       QuetzaltenangoCity   Hospital San Juan de Dios     2000      Pregnantwomen     385      0.3
       Guatemala City       Prof. Sexual Center           2000      csw               572     2.27
      Antigua City          Health Center                 2000      csw               64       4.7
       QuetzaltenangoCity   Health Center                 2000      csw                82      1.2
       Guatemala City       MCS
                            (PASCA Multi-countryStudy)  2001-2002   csw               300     3.33
      PuertoBarrios City    MCS                           2001      csw               95       4.2
      Puerto San Jose City  MCS                           2001      csw               127      7.9
       Guatemala City       MCS                         2001-2002   MSM               182       11
    Source: MOWPASCA




                                                      15

              Table 4. EstimatedPeople 15 to 59, Livingwith HIV/AIDS by RiskGroup
                            Group                      Year 2001      Year 2010
                            csw                           905           2,639
                            MSM                          15,464         30,3 12
                            ITS Male                     7,847          22,855
                            ITS Female                   9,996          29,113
                            Sub-total                    34,212         84,9 19

                            Low risk population          10,542         26,168
                            Total                        44,754        111,087


El Salvador
El Salvador is considered to have a concentrated epidemic, with HIV/AIDS prevalence consistently
exceeding five percent in one or more vulnerable populations. The cumulative number o f reported AIDS
cases was more than 13,600 in October 2004, but underreporting may be as high as 60 percent. The
epidemic is growing steadily, AIDS incidence rates are increasing (Table 5), and more than two-thirds of
reported cases have been reported since 1998 (more than in all the previous years). Approximately three-
fifths of reported AIDS cases occurred in the 20 to 35 age group (22.7 percent in 15-24 age group and
34.3 percent o f those aged 24 to 34), and the male-to-female ratio was approximately 1.8. The role of
heterosexual transmission has been high since the beginning, but the madwoman ratio decreased from 4.6
for the period 1984-2000 to 1.5 since the year 1998. More than 70 percent o f HIV cases reported
heterosexual contacts, but cultural stigma suggests that homosexual and bisexual transmission have been
under-reported.


Table 5. AIDS Incidencerate in El Salvador 1990-2004 (per 100.000 inhabitants)

       Year         Rate         Year        Rate           Year       Rate           Year      Rate
       1990         0.8          1994        5.86           1998       7.17           2002      15.37
       1991         2.75         1995        5.71           1999       7.97           2003       15
       1992         3.19         1996        4.54           2000       9.33          2004  *    19.4
       1993         2.85         1997        8.81           2001       14.1
* Adjusted rate for October 2004


Honduras
Honduras accounts just for 17 percent o f the Central America population, but by March 2004 the
cumulative number of reportedHIV/AIDS cases inHonduras was higher than 15,900 (about 60 percent o f
the total number of HIV/AIDS cases reported by the region).          This percentage may be even higher
considering high levels o f underreporting and the fact that HIV/AIDS i s the second leading cause o f
hospitalization and death after injury related to violence. Since the first cases in 1986, Honduran women
have been affected by the epidemic more than women in other countries. The male/female ratio was
never higher than 2.3, and since 1998, the ratio is about 1.1, the lowest inCentral America. The epidemic
is growing, with more than 50 percent o f reported cases since 1997, and it is becoming generalized.
While in Tegucigalpa and other areas o f the country the epidemic is concentrated, in San Pedro Sula
(industrial capital and the second largest city where rates in CSW reached 13 percent and 16 percent in
MSM), it is generalized. Prisoners and the Garifhas (an Afro-Caribbean population group) also have
very highHIV/AIDS prevalence (Table 6).



                                                      16

Table 6. HIV SeroprevalenceinHondurasBy Risk-groups, in Honduras 1998-2001


                       Groups                       Prevalence                  Source
              General population: Rural                 0.3%                  MS-SS: 2000
              Pregnant women
                 Rural                                  0.6%                  MS-SS: 1998
                 Urban                                  1.2%                  MS-SS: 1999
                 Tegucigalpa                            2.9%                   UNAIDS
                 San Pedro Sula                         3.6%                   UNAIDS

              Military personnel                        0.5%                  MS-SS: 1998
              Male prisoners                            6.8%                  MS-SS: 1998
              Truck drivers                             1.1%                  MS-SS: 1998
              Garifunas                                 8.4%                  MS-SS: 1998
              MSM                                      13.0%                 PASCA: 2001
              csw                                      10.3%                 PASCA: 2001

              National: 2001                            1.6%                     MOH
                 MS-SS: Minister o f Health - Secretariat o f Health

Nicaragua
Nicaragua has a low-level epidemic and it reports the lowest HIV/AIDS prevalence in Central America.
Sexual behavior factors (early start up o f sexual activity, low-levels o f condom use) indicate the potential
risk of an increasing epidemic.
The 2002 MCS conducted in Nicaragua found a 0.4 percent prevalence rate among CSWs, and 9.3
percent among MSMs. Prevalence among pregnant women attending antenatal clinics was 0.5 percent.
The latest data (2004) from the National AIDS Program on AIDS cases by occupation showed that
housewives rated higher than female sex workers. A study conducted in Chinandegas also showed that
housewives had two times the risk o f sex workers.


Panama
Panama has a concentrated HIV/AIDS epidemic, with most of its HIV/AIDS cases reported in high-risk
groups. The cumulative number o f reported AIDS cases in June 2004 were 6,296 with 4,629 deaths
(lethality 73.5 percent), becoming the 7th cause of death by 2002. Heterosexual transmission is the
predominant mode of transmission (42 percent), while the homo/bisexual mode accounted for a quarter of
cases. For another quarter the transmission mode was not identified, and the remaining cases were
attributed to blood transfusions (0.5 percent), from mother to child (3 percent) and IDUs (2 percent).
Despite the concentrated epidemic, it is still growing, and incidence rates have reached 20 to 24 per
100,000 inhabitants (Table 7). The male/female ratio has reduced by half from 5.2 in 1990 to 2.6 in 1997
and has been relatively constant since then. The MCS study found HIV prevalence of 10.6 percent
among MSM in Panama City (2001-2002), and a range from 4.7 percent among CSW who are mobile to
1.4percent among those working in brothels and other fixed sites.




                                                       17

Table 7. Reported AIDS incidencerates by sex, inPanama 1990-2003

                   Total     Male      Female     M/Fratio
         1990       2.9       4.8        0.9        5.2
         1991       3.8       5.8        1.7        3.3
         1992       4.8       7.8        1.7        4.6
         1993       8.1       13.7       2.4        5.8
         1994       11.1      16.9       5.3        3.2
         1995       12.9      19.8       5.9        3.4
         1996       14.0      20.8       7.0        2.9
         1997       16.7      24.1       9.2        2.6
         1998       19.1      29.2       8.9        3.3
         1999      23.9       34.4       13.2       2.6
         2000      20.8       30.4       11.0       2.8
         2001      24.1       36.1       11.8       3.1
         2002      24.1       34.3       13.7       2.5
         2003      21.1       31.3       10.6       2.9




                                18

        Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                          CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project

By September 2004, the World Bank had committed over $600.0 million to the Latin America and
Caribbean Regionto help finance the implementationof HIV/AIDS preventionand control programs in
Argentina, Barbados, Brazil, the DominicanRepublic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Jamaica, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, St. Kitts and Nevis, Venezuela and the rest of the Caribbean
(Table 8). The Bank has long been involved in HIV/AIDS programs in Latin America, especially in
Brazil, where the Bank has financed three large HIV/AIDSprojects.


Table 8. LAC Commitmentand Disbursementson HIV/AIDS Projects,FY03 & 04. (USD million),
(September 2004)

                                                                 Portion        FY03        FY04
Proj. ID Country          Project Title                          forHIV-
                                                                  AIDS  AFY Comm Disb Comm Disb


MAP LCR (Entire disbursemenffcommitment is for HIV-AIDS)
     -
PO75220 Barbados          Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prev. & Control  100%  FYOI  -     1.4   -    3.2
PO71505 Dominican Rep. Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prev. & Control     100%  FYOI  -    1.55   -    3.6
PO74641 Jamaica           HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control          100%  FY02  -    0.95   -    1.11
PO76715 Grenada           HIVIAIDS Preventionand Control          100%  FY03  6    0.2    -    0.04
PO76798 St. Kitts & Nevis HIVIAIDS Preventionand Control          100%  FY03 4.05  0.04   -    0.2
         Trinidad
          &Tobaao         HIVIAIDS Prevention and Control         100%  FY03 20     0     -    0.69
                "
PO80721 Pan-Caribbean     The Pan Caribbean PartnershipAgainst
                                     (PANCAP)                     100%  FY04  -     0     9     0
PO76722 Guyana            HIVIAIDS Prevention and Control         100%  FY04  -     0    10     0

Other (generallyprojects with HIV-AIDS subcomponents)
PO43418 Argentina         AIDS & STD Control                      100%  FY96  -    1.24   -    0.9
PO54120 Brazil            AIDS & STD Control II                   29%   FY99       4.83   -     0
PO66321 Mexico            Mexico Basic Health                     5.71% FYOI  --    0     -   0.377
PO50495 Venezuela         Caracas MetroDolitanHealth Services     16.5% FYOI  -     0           0
PO53575 Honduras          Health System Reform                   25.02% FY02       0.32        0.65
PO67986 El Salvador       Earthquake Emergency                    3.05% FY02  --    0     --   0.08
PO80400 Brazil           AIDSISTD Control (3)                     100%  FY03 100    0           5

Argentina Emergency Fund (VIGIA)*
PO06010 Argentina         Provincial Agriculture Dev I            4.78%                  6.0   5.08
PO39584 Argentina         B.A. Urb Transport                      7.47%             --   14.9  12.7
PO05980 Argentina         Provincial Roads                        1.79%             -    5.4   4.57
PO34091 Argentina        Higher Education                         3.19%             -    5.3   4.47
PO06052 Argentina        FLOOD Protection                         5.23%             -    10.5  8.89

Total                                                                       130.05 10.53 61.0  51.6

HrV/AIDS related disbursement in LAC was four times greater in FY04 than in FY03, while
disbursements decreased in the other regions (Figure 1). In Central America, financing for HIV/AIDS
activitiesis includedunder Bank-financedprojects inHondurasand El Salvador, but disbursementduring
FY03 andFY04wasjust about US$ 1.O million.


                                                      19

Figure 1.WB HIV-AIDS Disbursements,FY03-FY04




                       h
                       c                                   60.5




                                       LAC            All Regions minus LAC



In the third round, the Global Fund approved the "Intensification of Activities in Prevention and
Integrated Care amongVulnerableGroups and inPriority Areas in Guatemala" Project(US$41.O million)
and the agreement signed in October 2004. Now all six countries includedinthis proposedproject have
access to the Global Fund with US$3 1.8 million available for the first two-year projects and US$120.7
millionfor all ofthe proposals. At present, only US$7.5 millionhas beendisbursed(Table9).


Table 9. The GlobalFundPortfolioof Grantsin CentralAmerica. (USDthousand)

                                             October 2004
Country                     Costa          El      Guatemala Honduras Nicaragua Panama
                             Rica      Salvador
Round                         2"           2"          3"             1"       2"          1"
Grant Agreeinent Signed:    JuI-03      JuI-03       Oct-04        Feb-03    Oct-03     Feb-03

Total FundingRequest:       4,202       23,539       40,922        41,120    10,400       570

2-year Approved Funding     2,279       12,857        8,424         3,790    4,026        440

Total Funds Disbursed:       632        3,265           0           1,658     1,639       328




                                                  20

                              Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                               Central America Regional HIV/AIDS Project
                                                   -

Results Framework

             PDO                       OutcomeIndicators                         Use of Outcome
                                                                                    Information
Knowledge and tools are          Regional Action Plan adopted by the      Governments commitments to
provided to decision makers in   regional ministers o f health at the     manage and control the
all countries to enable actions  Central American Commission o f          epidemic.
aiming at a reduction of         Ministers o f Health (COMISCA).
incidence and control of
prevalence o f HIV/AIDS and
other opportunistic infections.
                                     Results Indicatorsfor Each             Use of Results Monitoring
    ~IntermediateResults
                                               Component
Component One: RegionalHI `AIDS Laboratory
A laboratory that will act as a  No. o f analytical and specialized       Assess capability o f center for
regional reference diagnostic    techniques implemented by the            meeting its key role.
center offering specialized      Regional Laboratory.                     Evaluate pace o f
services inHIV/AIDS and          No. o f analytical techniques            implementation o f new
other infections is established  transferred to at least four national    techniques.
and operating.                   laboratories.                            Identify shortcomings inthe
                                 Number o f new techniques innational     ability to follow-up on impact
                                 laboratories subjected to quality        o f tests results.
                                 assurance audits.                        Assess improvement in
                                 No. o f persons certified as trained in  practices used by national
                                 state-of-the-art technologies.           laboratories.
                                 No. o f analytical reports issued by the
                                 information system.
Component Two: Epidemiolog :a1Surveillance
A second-generation second-      No. o f countries that assess the HIV    Identify implementation delays
generation epidemiological       epidemic based on the second-            insetting upthe surveillance
surveillance system for the      generation second-generation             system in every country.
Central American region i s set  surveillance system regional
up inevery country, including    framework.
an automated regional
information system.




                                                          21

    Intermediate Results             Results Indicators for Each      Use of Results Monitoring
                                             Component

Component Three: Strengthen ig the Regional Response Capacity
Regionalharmonization of        No. ofpolicy documents on HIV       Assessingimpact of advice on
improved standards and          prevention and comprehensivecare    regional policy makers.
practicesfor policy formulation presentedto high-level regional     Monitoring implementation of
through the sharing of advice   meetings: COMISCA, SICA, and to
and best practices on           the President's Summit Meeting.     best practicesprocessesaimed

prevention and comprehensive                                        at identifyingpossible
                                No. of best practicereports         shortcomingsor obstacles.
care is established.            disseminatedannually throughout the
                                region.
                                No. of key persons engaged inbest
                                practice exchanges.


Component Four: Prevention in Mobile Populations
                               I
The vulnerability o f mobile    No. of ongoingprevention projects,  Assess possibledifficulties in
populationsto HIV/AIDS and      carried out by NGOs, supported.     coordination of preventive
other STIs is reduced.          No. ofnew prevention projects,      actions.
                                carried out by NGOs, supported.     Identify implementation delays.




                                                      22

    Arrangements for results monitoring




Regional Action Plan
adoptedby COMISCA.                          Draft Final        1     COMISCA
                                                                       Reports     SISCNSICA




Component One :Regioi 1Cent6           ratoi
                                       -
No. o f analytical and
specialized techniques                  1    2      1   1    Annual
implemented by the Regiona
Laboratory.
No. o f analytical techniques           0
transferred to at least four                 1      1   2    Annual  Regional Lab
national laboratories.                                               Annual report Regional Lab
Number o f new techniques
innational laboratories                 0    4     4    8    Annual      and           and
subjectedto quality
assurance audits.                                                     Progress        PCU
                                                                       report
No. o fpersons certified as
trained instate-of-the-art             25   25    25    25   Annual
technologies.
No. o f analytical reports              1          2    2   Annual
issued by the information                    2

system.                                                -
ComponentTwo :Epidemi ogical S veillance         --
No. o f countries that assess
the HIV epidemic based on                                            Surveillance    National
the second-generation          0                   5    6    Annual    systems     Surveillance
surveillance system regional                                           reports     systems and
framework.                                                                            PCU




                                                 23

                                :heE
                               -              o!se[;aiity
                                      *  I 2
No. of policy documents
presentedto high level        0  1                          Annual  Progress
regional meetings.                                                  reports   SISCA

No. of best practice reports  0  0                          Annual  Progress   and
disseminated through out the                                        reports
region.                                                                        PCU
No. ofkey persons engaged     0  0                                  Progress
inbest practiceexchanges.                                           reports
                                -   1
                                    ilations
.No. of ongoingprevention
projects, carriedout by                                             Progress   RIC
NGOs, supported.              0  0                          Annual  reports

No. of new prevention                                                          and
                                                                    Progress
projects, carriedout by       0  0                          Annual  reports    PCU
NGOs, supported.




                                            24

                                 Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                              Central America RegionalHIV/AIDS Project
                                                 -

The proposed project seeks to support, over a five-year period, the ability o f the Central American region
to undertake critical actions to better control the HIV/AIDS epidemic that are beyond the capability o f
individual countries. Such actions would provide regional countries with: (a) better access to highquality
diagnosis o f HIV/AIDS infections; (b) a regional second-generation surveillance system for the epidemic;
(c) enhancement o f the regional capability for cross/fertilization o f better practices in epidemic prevention
and control; and (d) reduction o f HIV/AIDS vulnerability o f mobile populations. A US$ 8.0 million
equivalent project with five components is proposed.

Component 1. RegionalLaboratory (US%3.8 million, including contingencies). This component will
support the establishment o f a regional laboratory to carry out highly-specialized functions, which takes
advantage o f economies o f scale by creating a single regional institution. These functions would include:
(a) acting as a regional reference diagnostic center carrying out confirmatory HIV tests (in the case o f
conflicting previous tests) and specialized diagnostics in the areas o f HIV, STIs, and opportunistic
infections, such as drug-resistant HIV; (b) becoming a specialized regional training center on HIV/AIDS
related technologies for laboratory workers; (c) developing information systems for laboratories
specialized in HIV/AIDS tests; (d) carrying out specialized research on technologies for testing
HIV/AIDS viruses; (e) becoming the regional center for quality control o f HIV/AIDS national
laboratories, providing quality control testing and ensuring the use o f high quality practices, including
quality o f HIV-related supplies; and (f)assessing and transferring technologies to national laboratories.

The specific objectives for the regional center component would be to:
    ...  Establish the capability to provide laboratory technologies that are not available at the national
         level and to carry out confirmatory analysis o f discrepant results;
         Develop and implement a continuous training program for national laboratory workers;
         Establish the capability for enhancing quality in the national HIV/AIDS laboratories through
         evaluation and monitoring o f their practices; and
         Develop an information system for laboratories for monitoring follow up and presenting sample
         results.

Investments under this component are estimated at about US$3.8 million (including contingencies),
divided in two phases. Phase 1 will support civil works, equipment and consultant services to establish
the regional laboratory during the first year o f the Project, and Phase 2 that will support its operation
during the life o f the project. The facilities would operate as part o f the Gorgas Memorial Institute for
Health Research in Panama. The project would finance some construction work to rehabilitate existing
buildingsand create specialized laboratory equipment and an information system (hardware and software)
to support laboratory management, sample control and establishment o f a database linked to a Regional
HIV-AIDS Surveillance System. In addition, it will cover the operating costs o f the regional center,
including the salary of the Coordinator for the center and selected staff, and the cost o f reagents, supplies,
training activities and selected technical assistance.

Component 2. Epidemiological Surveillance (US$ 1.4 million, including contingencies). This
component will support the implementation o f a regional second-generation epidemiological surveillance
system that would enable a better characterization o f the nature o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Central
America. The system will include an information system that would integrate country information and
disseminate it throughout the region, periodic HIV surveillance in high-risk groups and behavioral risk




                                                      25

factor surveillance and a training program. Data would be disaggregated, at least, by age, gender and
ethnicity, and whenever possible by populationmobility.

Investments under this component are estimated at about US$1.4 million and they will include: (a)
developing and implementing an information system that would consolidate and disseminate regional
information; (b) carrying out regionally coordinated sentinel systems, such as the recent multi-centric
study that has yielded substantial useful information on the evolution of the epidemic inhigh-riskgroups
across Central America; and (c) establishing a regional training program that would include training in
implementation, analysis and use o f coordinated surveillance systems, management, monitoring and
assessment o f national HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs, and application and use o f
surveillance information system.      Emphasis would be placed on standardization o f case definitions,
surveillance strategies, and indicators that are regarded as key elements for an efficient monitoring o f the
epidemic in the region. These activities would be closely coordinated with ongoing efforts by PAHO and
the CDC aiming at replacing, at the country level, outdated surveillance approaches with second-
generation surveillance, including periodic HIV surveillance in high-risk groups and behavioral risk
factor surveillance.


In order to assess the coverage and depth o f the information available in each country, and data feeding
into the regional information system on a regular (monthly) basis, national and regional issued reports
will be assessedperiodically. Also, frequent evaluations will be carried out o f the degree o f effectiveness
in the implementation of the information system measuring risks in behavioral trends in vulnerable
populations and o f the implementation o fHIV/AIDS sentinel sites.


The regional training program would include the development o f regular courses, (curricula and
materials) to be implementedrotationally inthe Central American countries.


Component 3. Strengthening the Regional Response Capacity (US$ 0.6 million, including
contingencies). This component would seek to increase the harmonization o f legal and institutional
frameworks needed to scale-up strategic interventions to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemics. It would
also seek to strengthen leadership and political commitment leading to a Regional Action Plan with
common policies and strategies for addressing the epidemic in a coordinated way. This component will
support the sharing o f best practices on prevention and comprehensive care from health sector, non-health
sector government and civil society organizations initiatives, including a desk review and a series o f
workshops at the regional level with health and non-health institutions and civil society representatives to
examine the HIVIAIDS legal framework for civil rights, integrated treatment access, and drug and lab
supplies regulations. Special workshops will be organized for ethnic groups (i.e. Garifuna, Kuna) in
vulnerable areas.

Recent workshops carried out in four Central American countries to analyze cost-effective interventions
have concluded that only 25 percent o f all primary and secondary infections can be prevented, unless new
approaches are found to reach population groups that are at highrisk. This component will also focus on
the dissemination o f "unsuccessful approaches" that are draining limited resources. A database o f best
practices would be developed and disseminated through the internet.

Component 4. Prevention in Mobile Populations (US$ 1.3 million, including contingencies). Mobile
populations can be especially vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other sexually-transmitted infections (STIs)
and are a key factor in the epidemic's spread. Some o f these populations include truck drivers, seasonal
mobile workers and commercial sex workers. Preventionprograms focusing on these populations are still
few and work at a small scale. The key objective o f this component will be to contribute to reduce the


                                                     26

vulnerability o f mobile populations to HIV/AIDS and other STIs. The main actions identified under this
component are: (a) strengthening coordination across sectors, both at the country and regional levels,
organizing periodic meetings and workshops o f key actors and agencies such as the National Initiative
Committees @ICs), and the Regional Initiative Committees (RIC); (b) providing continuity to successful
prevention subprojects and supporting the development o f new preventive interventions (new subprojects)
through a competitive process among sponsors, mainly NGOs or a group o f NGOs working in more than
one country; and (c) strengthening the abilities o f human resources working with mobile populations by
providing training programs.

It is estimated that US$1.3 million will be invested in this component, financing consultancy services,
training programs and upgrading (50 percent) and supporting new subprojects (50 percent) being
undertaken by single NGOs or associations o f NGOs working on both sides of country borders.
Subprojects would be selected following a competitive process.             The terms o f reference for the
competitive process, including eligibility criteria for type o f interventions and NGOs will be detailed in
the Operational Manual.

The RIC and NICs, were created by UNAIDS through the Mesoamerican Initiative for HIV/AIDS
Prevention (MIAP/IMPSIDA).         Also as a result o f this initiative, in August 2004 a network o f
organizations working with Mobile Populations and HIV/AIDS (REDPOMO) was established.

The RIC i s composed of representatives of the NICs, United Nation Theme Groups, and the UNAIDS
regional offices. This committee strengthens the already existing and evolving mechanism used by
Theme Groups and UNAIDS to coordinate regional activities related to mobile populations. Under this
proposed project, the RIC will be responsible for:
           0   Proposingcriteria for the subproject selection process to the PCU;
           0   Acting as the selection committee, recommending the subprojects to be financed to the
               PCU;
               Coordinating the subproject supervision process with the PCU and the NICs; and
           0   Providing the necessary synergies with other national and regional projects on this topic.

The NICs, which consist o f representatives o f the government, civil society, the UN and other donors,
will contribute to subproject supervision at national level.

Component 5. Project Management (US$0.9 million, including contingencies). This component will
focus on project administration and its structure and practices will be detailed inthe Operational Manual.
The component will finance computer and office equipment and furniture, technical assistance o f long-
term technical consultants in the PCU for technical and financial-administrative areas, technical
assistance for the strengthening o f the PCU's operational capacity, project audits, annual procurement
assessments, and transportation and per diem for training and supervision. The PCU will work under the
supervision o f SISCA,      and the Project Coordinator will be responsible for liaising with
SISCA/COMISCA, the Gorgas Institute, and the National HIV-AIDS programs.




                                                     27

                                              Annex 5: Project Costs
                            CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project

The estimated cost for each component is summarized inthe table below.

                             Project Cost by component              Local    Foreign    Total
                                  US$ Thousand                      (US$)    (US$)      (US$)


         Component 1: Regional Laboratory                              1,167     2,264     3,431
         Design of facilities                                            21         49        70
         CivilWorks                                                      160        40       200
         Equipment                                                       60        600       660
         Consumables                                                     150       700       850
        Training activities                                              175       125       300
         Quality enhancement panels                                      20         30        50
         Informationsystem                                                88       300       388
         TechnicalAssistance                                             362       360       722
         Operating Expenditures                                          131        60       191


         Component 2: Epidemiological Surveillance                       375       895     1,270
         Equipmentand computers                                           20        30        50
         Consultantsand software                                          20        80       100
         Multi-centricStudy                                                0       450       450
         Training and workshops                                          275       275       550
         Follow up surveillance                                           60        60       120


         Component 3: Strengthening the Regional Response Capacity       240       260       500
         Studies on best practices and others                            110       130       240
         Publicationand dissemination of best practices                   20        20        40
         Transfer of best practices and internships                       90        90       180
         Training and workshops                                           20        20        40


         Component 4: Prevention in Mobile Populations                   320       875      1195
         Studies and consultancy services                                -25       200       175
         Financing of subprojects contractedwith NGOs                    300       600       900
         Workshops                                                        45        75       120


         Component 5: Project Management                                 210       700       910
         PCUAdministration                                               120       570       690
         Equipment, furniture and supplies                                10        40        50
         Operating Expenses                                               60        60       120
         Audits                                                           20        30        50


         Contingencies                                                   114I       580      694


         Grand Total                                                   2,426      5,574    8,000

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                         CENTRAL AMERICA RegionalHIV/AIDS Project
                                                    -

ImplementingEntities

The executing entity for the proposed project will be the Central American Integration System (the
Recipient) with the technical contribution of the Central American Secretariat for Social Integration
(SISCA), an arm of the Central American Integration System (SICA), the permanent entity that manages
the integration process. SISCA was created through the Central American Treaty o f Social Integration
signed by the six Central American countries (El Salvador, Panama, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras and
Costa Rica), on March 30, 1995.

Project implementation will be carried out by SISCA through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), located
within SISCA. The PCU will have direct responsibility for implementing all activities related to
epidemiological surveillance, and strengthening the response capacity and prevention in mobile
populations (Components 2-5).        The HIV/AIDS Regional Laboratory will be implemented in a
decentralized manner by the Gorgas Institute (the Institute) in Panama(Component 1). This scheme will
require a special coordination effort, but it is favored because it takes advantage of an already operating
and effective institutional framework with established processeswith recently constructed facilities. This
approach requires establishing a specific agreement that the Gorgas Institute will host the regional
laboratory. The PCU will be responsible for overseeing the satisfactory implementation of the project,
and compliance with all fiduciary requirements, and thus will coordinate closely with the HIV/AIDS
RegionalLaboratory.

SG-SICA, through its Administrative and Financial Directorate, will be responsible for the financial
management of the grant proceeds, including: (i)maintenance of accounting records, (ii)processing
disbursements, (iii)preparation of project financial statements inaccordance with World Bank guidelines,
(iv) management of bank accounts, (v) management of financial information systems, (vi) preparation and
submission of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), and (vii) preparation and submission of
withdrawal applications.

Staffing

As indicated above, SISCA will create a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to manage the proposed
project. The PCU will be headed by a Project Coordinator and will have a small technical staff (and
specialized support from consultants as needed). The Grant will fund the technical assistance of five
long-term consultants inthe PCU, for technical and financial-administrative areas.

The Central American Commission o f Ministers of Health (COMISCA) will provide technical support
and participate in key decisions duringproject implementation.

The HIV/AIDS Regional Laboratory will be managed by a coordinator who will be appointed by
COMISCA, after a competitive selection process managed by SISCA. The actual technical oversight of
implementation and operation of the regional laboratory will be entrusted to an advisory council
consisting of the heads o f the national HIV/AIDS laboratories. This council will monitor the center's
implementation and operation progress and it will endorse strategic plans and the annual operating
program to be approved by SISCA. This approach is expected to establish client orientation practices in
the work of the regional diagnostic center, providing services that respond adequately and effectively to
the demands of the national laboratories. It should be noted that duringthe initial phases of establishing
the regional laboratory, the coordinator would play a project management role that would evolve to a



                                                      29

 more technical role after commissioning the facilities. Eventually, both roles could be played by the same
 person.

 SISCA, through the PCU, will be the guarantor o f compliance with the requirements and procedures
 established in the Grant Agreement and the Project Operational Manual, and will be responsible for
 overseeing the satisfactory implementation o f the project.        SISCA, also through the PCU, will be
 responsible for monitoring the achievement o f the project development objective and performance
 indicators.  In particular, it will coordinate and facilitate activities o f the regional diagnostic center
 providing financial resources and support with procurement and financial management activities.

 Inbrief, the specific overall responsibilities ofeach institutiodentity are as follows:



   tity

 SG-SICA                        Provides overall political framework for project execution and has
                                ultimate responsibility for compliance with the Grant Agreement
                                and management o f financial aspects.
                                Responsible for compliance with project requirements including
~SISCA
                                safeguards, procurement guidelines, and implementation actions
                                and schedule.
 COMISCA                        Provides advice and guidance to the project and participates in
                                policy decisions.
 PCU                            Unitat SISCA incharge o fday-to-day activities and supervision
                                of project activities, directly managing components dealing with
                                surveillance system, regional response capacity and mobile
                                populations. Provides support to and monitors progress o fthe
                                regional laboratory activities.
Regional Laboratory             Responsible for setting up and managing the regional HIV/AIDS
                                and other infections diagnostic center and associated programs.
                                Operates within the Gorgas Institute inPanama.
Advisory Council to the         To be formed by the national directors o f HIV/AIDS programs and
Regional Laboratory             it will provide operational guidance to the regional laboratoryand
                                will approve its strategic plans and annual operatingprograms.




                                                        30

I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I         Central American                                                    I
I                                                                             I
I      Integration Secretariat                                                I
I                                                                              I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                                                             I
I                                     Panama                                  I
                                                                              I
I
                                I                                             I
I                                                                             I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I
                                                                              I

                 I                                                            I
I    I                          I                                             I
I                                                                             I
I
,                                     Gorgas                                   I
                                                                               I
I                                                                              I
I                                    Laboratory                                I
I                                                                              I
I
I
I
I                                                                Consultative
I                                         ..,...,..,............
I      Project Coordination Unit
I
I    +,        SISCA
       Central American Social
       Integration Secretariat




                                     HIV/AIDS
      Response Capacity               Regional
      Mobile Populations             Laboratory




                               31

               Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements


Summary Conclusion of FinancialManagement Assessment.

The FM Assessment reviewed SISCA's experience in managing donor-fundedprojects and its internal
operating performance and procedures (budgeting, accounting, internal control, auditing and reporting).
The assessment concluded that SISCA's financial management system meets the Bank's minimum
financialmanagementrequirements.The overallrisk assignedto the project is moderate.The supervision
planand scope ofthe extemalaudit are designedto managethe risks identified.

ImplementingEntity. The implementingentity for the proposedprojectwill be the CentralAmerican
IntegrationSystem (SICA, located in El Salvador)with the technicalassistance of the Central American
Secretariat for Social Integration(SISCA). SISCA was created through the Central American Treaty of
Social Integration signed by the six Central American countries (El Salvador, Panama, Guatemala,
Nicaragua, Honduras and Costa Rica), on March 30, 1995. A PCU has been created within SISCA to
manage project implementation. This PCU is comprised of existing staff, and the unit may be
supplementedwith additionalstaff as needed.

SISCA will also manage the HIV/AIDS Regional Laboratory component (Component 1) through a
secondary PCU under SISCA's direct supervision. SISCA will have full responsibility for project
implementationand will coordinate closely with its secondary PCU (managing the HIV/AIDS Regional
Laboratory component on behalf of the Gorgas Institute in Panama) regarding financial management,
disbursement and audit issues relatedto the implementationof Component 1.

Under the Preventionin Mobile Populations Component, project funds will be transferred to NGOs and
other agencies in support of the project's development objective. These agents will enter into specific
agreementdcontracts with SISCA prior to the transfer of project funds. As such, these agents will be
treated as consultants (the terms of the agreementdcontracts will carry similar terms of tranche
paymentdfunds transfer, not lump-sum transfer of resources), and as such, will not be considered as
traditionalimplementingentities.

PCU Staffing. SISCA maintainsa small administrativeunit that managesits financialoperations. While
this unit will most likely be strengthened with additional personnel, financed under the project, its
existing structure (including, within the context of a small organization, the segregation of duties and
responsibilities)is sufficient.

The secondary PCU in Panama will be staffed with personnel hired to manage project activities
(Component l),    and the staff will be under the supervision of SISCA's Director of Administration and
Finance(basedinEl Salvador).

Flow of Fundsand Disbursements. The flow of funds for the proposedprojectcalls for projectfunds to
be channeled through a Special Account denominated in USD to be established by SISCA in a
commercial bank in El Salvador. All eligible project expenditures, both local and foreign incurred by
SISCA will be financed out of the Special Account. The Special Account will be a dedicated account,
separatefrom other operationalaccounts that SISCA managesto avoidthe co-minglingof projectfunds -
this is consistentwith SISCA's operatingproceduresand its experiencemanagingother donor projects.

SG-SICA will transfer funds from the Special Account to the second PCU's sub-account in Panama to
meet expenditure commitments for activities relatedto Component 1. This sub-accountwill be based in



                                                    32

the same commercial bank network that will hold the Special Account. As such, the sub-account will
form an integral part of the Special Account. SISCA will be responsible for accounting for the total
advance and the submission o f bank statements and documentation for both accounts.

Replenishments o f and disbursements to the SISCA Special Account will be made, at the beginning,
using a traditional disbursement method (transaction-based procedures, submission o f Statements o f
Expenditures - SOEs). Once the preparation o f requiredreports has been established and reviewed by the

Monitoring Reports - FMRs). During implementation, SISCA will (a) sustain satisfactory FM
Bank's team, the disbursement method would change to report-based procedures (based on Financial

arrangements to be verified through supervision missions, (b) submit FMRs consistent with the agreed
form, content and due date, and (c) submit acceptable audited financial statements by their due date. If
SISCA does not continue to meet these criteria or has problems producing acceptable FMRs, the
disbursement method could be changed to transaction-based disbursements only (SOEs, direct payments,
reimbursements, replenishment o f the Special Account, as appropriate).

All supporting documentation for project expenditures and other payments ingeneral for project activities
will be retained by SISCA, in its El Salvador office, for audit purposes and will be made available for the
Bank's supervision. The secondary PCU will remit expenditure supporting documentation on a monthly
basis to SISCA's El Salvador office.

Counterpart funds. Since this project (IDA Grant) will finance 100 percent o f expenditures, there i s no
requirement for counterpart financing.

Accounting and Reporting/FMRs. SISCA already utilizes a thorough financial management procedures
manual developed by PricewaterhouseCoopers (this is part o f SISCA's operations manual). The Bank
found that the manual's operating procedures are routinely observed and enforced and as such, does not
require additional changes or modifications.

SISCA's accounting system (chart o f accounts) is able to manage the recording o f transactions along both
expenditure (disbursement) categories and project-level detail (components and activities).         SISCA
creates a separate chart o f accounts for each project it manages., and has agreed to continue with this
practice for this project. The chart o f accounts for this project has been structured to allow for a single
recording o f transactions so that financial reports (eg, sources and uses o f funds; disbursement reports)
can be produced as part o f the quarterly FMRs.

SISCA will be responsible for producing the FMRs on a quarterly basis to be submitted to the Bank,
which will be used for disbursement and monitoring purposes. The FMRs will include a narrative
outlining the major project achievements for the quarter, the project's sources and uses o f funds
(expenditures by component and activities in a format consistent with the project's budget and operating
plan), uses o f funds by disbursement category, a financial forecast along disbursement categories, a
procurement report (summary sheets o f contracts above and below the Prior-review threshold) and an
updated procurement plan. The FMRs should be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end
o f the reporting period.

The annual financial statements will include the project's sources and uses o f funds, a report presenting
expenditure by component and activity, the schedule o f uses o f funds by disbursement category and a
reconciliation o f the Special Account. These reports will be prepared by SISCA and made available to
the auditors after the end o f the fiscal year.

Use of statement of expenditures(SOEs). Ifusingthis mechanism, disbursement will be made on basis
o f SOEs for contracts following with the IDA'SStandard Procurement Procedures (see annex 8).


                                                      33

 Audit Arrangements. The audit reports would be prepared in accordance with International Standards
 on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with terms o f reference
 (TOR) that SISCA must sent to the IDA to be approved. SISCA will submit annual audited project
 financial statements to the Bank within six months o fthe end o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o f
 the project. The contract for the audit awarded during the first year o f project implementation may be
 extended to subsequent years, subject to satisfactory performance, instead o f initiating a new contracting
 process every year. The cost o f the audit will be financed from the project resources.

 The new audit policy o f the World Bank, documented in "Guidelines: Annual financial reporting and
 auditing for World Bank-financed projects" will be applicable to the project, since it was appraised after
 July 1, 2003. This means that in terms o f the audit opinion on project accounting records maintained by
 the project, a single audit opinion covering: (i)project financial statements (statement o f sources and uses
 o f funds, and statement o f uses o f funds by project activity), (ii)special account statement, and (iii)
 adequacy o f supporting documentation maintained by SISCA in respect o f expenditures claimed for
 reimbursement via FMRs and eligibility o f such expenditures for financing under the respective Grant
 Agreement, will be required.

 In addition to the audit opinion, the auditors will have to present the management letter, covering: (i)
 weaknesses noted by the auditors in the internal control systems o f the project, (ii) o f application o f
                                                                                       cases
 inappropriate accounting policies and practices, (iii)issues regarding general compliance with Grant
 covenants, and (iv) any other matters that the auditors considers should be brought to the attention o f
 SISCA.

 Supervision Plan. During project implementation, the Bank will review the project's financial
 management arrangements in two main ways: (i)review the project's quarterly financial management
 reports, periodic financial information o f SISCA and annual audited financial statements and auditor's
 management letter; and (ii)during the Bank's missions, review the project's financial management and
 disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's fiduciary requirements.

                                  Table A: Allocationof Grant Proceeds


                                                          Amount Of the Grant
 Category                                                Allocated(Expressed in         % of Expenditures
                                                            SDREquivalent)                to beFinanced


 Goods, works, operating costs and consultants'
 services for Part A (phase 1) o f the Project                     0.85                         100%


 Goods, works, operating costs and consultants'
 services for Part A (phase 2) o f the Project                     1.38                         100%


 Goods, consultants' services, training and
 operating costs                                                   1.97                         100%


 Prevention Subprojects                                            0.59                         100%

 Unallocated                                                       0.47                         100%
1                                                     I                              I
II                                                                                   I                          I
 TOTAL                                                             5.26



                                                       34

                               Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements

A) General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general descriptions o f various items under different
expenditure category are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank project team in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

Procurementof Works: Works procured under this project, would include rehabilitation and/or addition
to the Gorgas Institute in Panama to function as a Regional Laboratory. Contracts above US$3.0 million
will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB); contracts below US$ 3.O million,
but above US$ 250,000 will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB); Small Works
contracts below US$ 250,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis o f comparing at least 3 quotations
received from qualified contractors in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed scope
o fwork, specifications and relevant drawings as well as a form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank. The
procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and National
SBD agreed with the Bank.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procured under this project would include laboratory reagents, test kits,
laboratory equipment and furniture, office equipment and furniture, computer equipment as well as
consumables and supplies. Goods will also be acquired under subprojects up to US$50.000 by subproject
following the shopping procedures. To the extent possible, contracts for goods [other than Specialized
Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment] will be grouped into bidding packages o f more than US$
250,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures; contracts below US$250,000 but above US$
50,000 will follow NCB procedures in El Salvador or Panama, (depending where the products will be
used) and contracts below US$ 50,000 will be procured under shopping procedures. The procurement
will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank.

Procurement o f Specialized Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment (e.g., test kits, reagents, viral
load and CD4 count machines) will be determined by the market situation o f each product (Le., the
number o f available qualified suppliers) and the nature o f the medical supplies.       Regardless o f the
contract value, they may be procured using limited international bidding (LIB), shopping or direct
contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.2, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 (UN
agencies) o f the Guidelines.

Procurementof non-consulting services:will consist o f publication and dissemination services as well
as Internet services to support the national laboratories. Other services will include courier services
between the national laboratories and the regional laboratory. Sample bidding documents acceptable to
the Bank will be used.

Procurement under Subprojects for Mobilemigrant Populations: small works, goods and services
under subprojects will be procured in accordance with the Operational Manual. All subprojects are
demand driven initiatives (aggregate amount US$ 970,000).       The average subproject i s estimated to be




                                                   35

about US$ 50,000. Procurement methods under sup-projects will be shopping for goods, works, and
services. For consulting contracts the methods on table A1 will apply.

Selection of Consultants: Consultant services will be required for monitoring and evaluation activities,
multicentric     studies,      best      practice     studies,    mobile/migrant        studies,      software     design,
architectural/engineering design as well as for laboratory and project administration including auditing
services. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Under subprojects, it is envisioned that NGOs already working with
migrant populations will compete in accordance with the criteria established in the Operational Manual.

Training: The project will finance training on lab technology, epidemiological surveillance workshops,
strengthening of response capacity as well as workshops for prevention in the mobile/migrant population
as well as with indigenous peoples and afro-descendants.

Operational Costs: Operating costs of the regional laboratory as well as operational costs for the
implementation o f the project will be financed by the Grant proceeds and is estimated to cost US$
320,000.

                           Table A: Proiect Costsby ProcurementArrangements
                                                    (US$ Thousands)


         ExpenditureCategory                ProcurementMethod                                           TotalCost
                                               ICB       NCB              Other          N.B.F
                                                        I             I              I
     1.Works                                                    0.26                        0.00              0.26
                                                              (0.26)                       (0.00)            (0.26)
     2. Goods                                     1.20         0.37          0.885          0.00              2.45
                                                (1.20)        (0.37)       (0.88)          (0.00)            (2.45)
     3. Consultant Services                                                  2.85           0.00              2.85
                                                                           (2.85)          (0.00)            (2.85)
     4. Training                                                             1.15           0.00              1.15
                                                                            (1.15)         (0.00)            (1.15)
     5. Sub-projectsmigrantpop.                                              0.976          0.00              0.97
                                                                            (0.97)         (0.00)            (0.97)
     6. OperatingCosts                                                       0.32           0.00              0.32
                                                                            (0.32)         (0.00)            (0.32)


        Total                                     1.20         0.63          6.17           0.00              8.00
                                                (1.20)        (0.63)       (6.17)          (0.00)            (8.00)

Note: NBF :Non Bank Financed




   Includes shooping, direct contracting. LIB and procurement from LJN agencies as appropriate.
ti Average sub-project ($50,000). goods, works and services by shopping, consulting contracts under the methodsdescribedin
   table Al.


                                                            36

                      Annex 8: Table Al: ConsultantSelection Arrangements(optional)
                                             (inUS million equivalent)

Consultant Services
    Expenditure                                 SelectionMethod                             Total
      Category         QCBS    IQBS    1 SFB    I LCS   I CQ    I SS   I Other  I N.B.F.
                               I       I        I       I       I      I        I

A. Firms                  1.05                     0.05   0.31                        0.00     1.41
                         (1.OS)                   (0.05) (0.3 1)                     (0.00)  (1.41)


B. Individuals                                                             1.44                1.44
                                                                          (1.44)             (1.44)


Total                     1.05                     0.05   0.31             1.44       0.00     2.85
                         (1.OS)                   (0.05) (0.3 1)          (1.44)     (0.00)  (2.85)



                Note:    QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                         QBS     = Quality-based Selection
                          SFB    = Selection under a FixedBudget
                         LCS     =Least-Cost Selection
                         CQ      = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                          SS     = Sole Source Selection
                         Other = Selection o f individual consultants (per Section V o f Consultants
                                 Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
                         N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed.


B) Assessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

The overall responsibility for the implementation o f the project financed by the Grant, including
procurement, rests with the General Secretariat o f SICA (Secretaria General de SICA-Sistema de
Integracion Centro Americana), headquartered in El Salvador. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
(Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto - UCP) will be established within the Central American
SecretariatlDirectorate for Social Integration (SISCA), one o fthe directorates o f the General Secretariat.

Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCU-SISCA, and its general coordinator will report to
the Technical Secretary o f SISCA. The PCU will advertise and hire a Procurement Specialist, with
experience in the Health Sector and knowledge o f World Bank Procurement Guidelines, processes and
procedures. The Terms o f Reference will be reviewed and approved by the Bank, and the hiring o f the
Procurement Specialist will be completed by effectiveness. One o f the Procurement Specialist's duties
will be the close coordination with the General Coordinator o f the Regional Laboratory located in the
Gorgas Institutein Panama and support on all the procurement activities.

The Project Operational Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for
works, goods and services procured under the subprojects.

An assessment of the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions for the
project was carried out by E. Villatoro on October 22, 2004 and completed at appraisal on January 14,



                                                      37

2005.    The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the
interaction between the projects staff responsible for procurement and the General Secretariat -SICA's
directorate for administration and finance.

Most o f the issues/ risks concerningthe procurement activities for project implementation were identified
and include the limited experience o f the General Secretariat with procurement activities and the existing
procurement personnel consists o f an assistant whose experience is limited to "purchase orders."
Although the SG-SICA has implemented grants o f approximately the same amount o f the proposed
Grant, they have not had any exposure to Bank-financed project policies and procedures. The corrective
measures that have been agreed are:

Procurement Capacity Building Action Plan.               The key elements o f an Action Plan for
strengthening procurement capacity to implementthe project include the following:

             An experienced Procurement Specialist with TORs acceptable to the Bank, will be
             hired by effectiveness. The procurement unit will have the responsibility to organize
             workshops for the PCU, the Gorgas Institute and with NGOs executing sub-projects
             regarding all procurement processes under the project.
             Project Launch. Prior to or shortly after Grant effectiveness, the PCU will conduct
             procurement/implementation workshops, as part o f the project implementation and
             capacity buildinginitiatives. The workshop topics would include, inter alia:
             (i)procurement procedures described in the         Grant Agreement and in the Bank's
                  Procurement and Consultant Guidelines;
             (ii)preparation ofprocurement documents, biddingpackages, technical specifications,
                  TORs, schedules requirements, etc.;
             (iii)procedures    for  conducting the      bidding processes     including,  inter alia,
                  prequalification o f suppliers, organization o f pre-bidding conferences,          bid
                  evaluation, contract preparation, etc.;
             (iv) Contract management and supervision o f the performance o f suppliers, contractors,
                  consultants; and
             (v) Contract/procurement filing and preparation and disseminationo f reports.
              An Operational Manual describing all procurement procedures, thresholds and standard
             bidding documents to be used under the project must be prepared for Bank's review. A
             draft must be presented before effectiveness. The Manual should also describe in detail,
             with the required instructions and formats, the cycle for subprojects from identification to
             approval, the menu o f activities eligible for financing, the procurement methods to be
             followed and standardhample bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
             The PCU will establish a reference library containing all the World Bank procurement-
             related documentation, including the updated versions o f the Guidelines, templates for
             procurement notices, standard bidding documents (SBDs) (RFPs), standard evaluation
             forms, check lists and Memoranda, as well as required forms for input into World Bank
             contract monitoring systems.
            The procurement plan included inthe Project OperationalManual must be adhered to and
             updated periodically.

Update the Management Information System (MIS)/FM               system to provide for the tracking and
monitoring o f all contracts. The system should have the capability to record and monitor the contracts
within the particular subprojects. Samples from other similar World Bank-financed projects shall be
obtained to design the most appropriate system that will enable updates and linkages to the other systems
usedby SG-SICA as required.



                                                     38

The overallprojectrisk for procurementis high, due to the fact that SG-SICA has never been involvedin
the implementation of a World Bank-financed project and the procurement experience in the
AdministratiordFinance directorate of SG-SICA has been primarily with "purchase orders" given the
natureofthe procurementunderthe projects they have implemented.

C) ProcurementPlan

The Recipient,at appraisal, developeda ProcurementPlanfor project implementation, whichprovidesthe
basis for the procurementmethods. This planwill be agreedbetweenthe Recipientandthe Project Team
on the date of negotiations and is availableat the General Secretariat of SICA. It will also be available in
the Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in
agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needsand improvementsin institutionalcapacity.


The agreedProcurementPlan is presentedinTable C below.

D) FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervision to be carriedout from the Bank, the capacity assessmentof the
ImplementingAgency has recommendedbi-annualsupervision missionsto visit the field to carry out post
reviewofprocurementactions.




                                                    39

                    E
                    L




  10
 0
  i

  m
  4
 -
  h
  1




        v,
       0
        Y




                    - r i


 -VI    Ln
 0      0           10
  x     4           0

        m4          6v


                                  0
                                  d
           -               -

               M
               9             M
                             9
  m                          n
 L,                          4
 z      Y
        m    c m    E       r:
                    c)       n


                         55

        0
        0                3
                         n
 2      2                2

t                   ST?
        t-4           .E     N



        0     c;    0       3

W
0     W
      0
9     $
      c,
         -
W
0     m
      0     W                                 n
          0                 3
                            9       9
                                    3         3
      B
      0     s               9       9         9
                             ;4     4         -.i

                                                 .
                                                 10
                                                 0




W           vl
0           0                        W
0"u                                 0
            E
            0
                                     m
                                     B




            -

            .-a0a
m                            m
2           c
            Kc               !2
                   2 s5
                     4-'-    i s5
                              *'-    2 .-2E
                                     c)




      -
      0            0                 0
                             8
      vl             W       W       z
      0            8                 0




                              c      CI



0     0     0        0        0      0

       W
     3        0       \o
              I-     0       3
                             \o  I-
                                 0
       0
     8         B      0      0

              h       B      B   I3
W                     \o
P
0             W
              0
               Y     3
                     a 00
              d




                             -3   -
                             W
                             0   0\o
                                  0
                                  9


                                               N
                                               d




G3Y   G3Y                    W
                             U   18
                                  VI




         .e,
         3
       L
       o >    L  .o3
     E2       'i: >
              0 w
              P,Cd

    -.                              I
     n       3
             In
             M                         40
      5      0               0    0    8
                                        cj:


             M       e       3



2    2       5

                   r
                   t
                   t  fe,
                      9
                      x




                               M
                               d

 0
 u

  .-ti
  5

  *
  a



0
M vi                     ?\
8 8
  t.

         0 0 0 0 0       5

                                  Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                              CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project

HIV/AIDS is spreading in Central America and imposing a heavy economic and financial burden on
individuals, households and society. This financial burden i s disproportionately higher for low-income
households. Although the spread o f HIV/AIDS i s mainly a result o f individual behavior and choices,
there is a compelling economic benefit from public action to prevent it and to control its spread.

The increase in expenditure associated with increased HIV/AIDS incidence diverts funds away from
productive savings, which in turn affects the levels o f investment that can be achieved. Depressed levels
o f labor and capital affect the levels o f output from the various sectors and therefore overall GDP.

The region is challenged by the financial sustainability o f HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs
that have included a blend o f promotion, prevention, ART and care including the care for opportunistic
infections. The Global Fund has become the main source for financing national programs for treatment
and prevention, but the control o f the epidemic is critical to avoid an incremental financial requirement
from the already over-stretched health sector budgets.

In order to generate the highest possible benefits in terms o f averted infections and reduced mortality, a
subset o f interventions must be chosen from the menu o f possible initiatives. Once it has been decided
that public intervention i s justified for HIV/AIDS (on the basis o f market failure arguments), then
information about cost-effectiveness can help the policy-maker determine which interventions to
prioritize to achieve maximum impact. Maximum impact i s achieved by giving financing priority to
those interventions with the highest cost-effectiveness. The current consensus seems to be that the most
cost-effective interventions are those targeted towards CSWs (peer education) and other high-risk groups
(MSM and high-riskheterosexual men), the management of sexually transmitted infections, and the use
o f anti-retroviral drugs to prevent mother to child transmission o f HIV. In all these cases, groups with a
high HIV reproductive rate are reached at low costs. The HIV reproductive rate itself hinges on the
amount o f time a person remains infectious, the risk o f transmission per sexual contact             and the rate o f
acquisition o f new partners (high among CSWs for example). Therefore, all other things being equal,
preventing infection in someone with a high rate o f partner change and with risky sexual contacts will
indirectly avert many more infections than preventing infection in someone with low-risk behavior                  8 .
This "multiplier" effect is at the root o f the cost-effectiveness o f the interventions targeted towards
specific population groups. The cost-effectiveness o f such population-based initiatives, such as mass
media education and education programs for the youth, remain to be established.                      Typically such
programs have low effectiveness, but also can be designed to have very low costs, leading to very high
cost-effectiveness.        Achieving cost-effectiveness therefore crucially hinges on the design o f these
programs. The cost-effectiveness o f highly active anti retroviraltherapy also has to be further researched;
it is estimated at between $720 and $2,355 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) saved for the Brazil
HIV/AIDS program.

'    The probability oftransmission of HIV-1 infectionper 100exposures i s 0.1-0.2 for male-to-female unprotected
     vaginal sex; 0.033-0.1 for female-to-male unprotectedvaginal sex; 0.5-3.O for male-to-male unprotectedanal
     sex; and 13-48for MTCT (source: `ConfrontingAIDS: Public Priorities ina Global Epidemic (1997)').
     This effect is illustrated ina dramatic way in `Confronting AIDS.' Raisingcondom use to 80 percent among a
     population of 500 sex workers, eighty percent of whom are infected and who have four partnersa day averts
     10,000 infections per year, whereas raising condom use to the same level among 500 low-income menof whom
     10 percent are infected and who have four partnersper year averts 88 infections. Ifthe cost ofraising condom
     use i s the same inboth cases, targeting sex workers provesto be significantly more cost-effective than low-
     incomemen.


                                                          44

In early 2002, the World Bank developed a tool to help Central American countries better understand
which prevention activities should be well funded if the epidemic is truly to be reversed as soon as
possible. The Allocation By Cost-effectiveness (ABC) Model is the result o f this work. The ABC model
helps policymakers determine the resource allocationthat will prevent the maximum number o f new HIV
infections at any given budget level  '.  The model can also be used to simulate the effect o f alternative
resource allocations and generate consensus around the HIV prevention interventions that have the
greatest impact on the epidemic.

The ABC Model has the following characteristics: first, it focuses on prevention programs only, and thus
does not consider tradeoffs between funding care and treatment instead o f prevention. The model
supposes that the policymaker has already earmarked funds for prevention and treatment. Second, it
analyzes alternative resource allocations differentiated by strategy and target population group, as defined
by risk behavior, sexual orientation, gender, language, location, etc. Third, it enables other allocation
criteria, such as equity or socio-political constraints to be valued explicitly in comparison to the optimal
allocation. For example, if a certain amount o f funding were to be reserved for a particular group or
program, the resulting impact on the number o f infections averted can be measured. After the population
groups and set of interventions to be considered for the analysis are first defined, some key parameters are
entered in the model. However, policymakers have limited information on some of these parameters,
making it difficult.   In the absence o f national or comparable international data, the exercise uses
estimation by consensus as an acceptable second-best. This means that many o f the model inputs are
estimated subjectively by a group of national and international stakeholders, using their best (informed)
judgment.

This ABC model was applied in Honduras, Panama, and Guatemala between May 2002 and August 2003
in country-level workshops. Given the nature of the epidemic in the three Central American countries,
workshop participants chose similar target population groups and prevention interventions, as presented
below (see Tables 9.1, 9.2).

             Table 9.1: Target PopulationGroups for Honduras,Panama,and Guatemala




    The model draws on the techniques elaboratedin"NOTime to Lose." Institute o f Medicine(2001).



                                                      45

           Table 9.2: HIV PreventionInterventionsfor Honduras,Panama,and Guatemala

                                                                     I  Honduras   IPanama    IGuatemala    1




The first key common finding i s that a substantial impact on the epidemic can be achieved even with
limited resources, provided these are channeled to the most cost-effective interventions (see figure 9.1
below for an example from Panama). In all countries, the most cost-effective interventions were: (i)
condom social marketing, (ii)free condom distribution targeted to high-risk groups, (iii)information,
education and communication (IEC) for high-risk groups including men who have sex with men,
commercial sex workers and prisoners, and (iv) voluntary counseling and testing. According to the
optimal allocation, US$ 1.O million invested in these interventions would prevent between 5,100 and
12,000 infections, which corresponds to between 11 and 19 percent o f expected primary and secondary lo
infections. The corresponding cost per infection prevented would be between $84 and $196, depending
on the country. By comparison, ifthese resources were distributed among the other interventions in each
country, only a few hundred infections would be prevented at a cost o f several thousand U S dollars per
infection prevented.

                                                      -
                  *e9.1: HIV InfectionsPreventedwith Optimal Allocation,Panama-2003
         30001                                                                              12000
       8E                                                                                          B
       5 2500                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                   UE
                                                                                            10000

      3E
      U                                                      HIV Infections prevented with
      w&2000                                                 optimal allocation by budget   8000   k2
                                                                                                    v1


      &                                                      increment                             .3
                                                                                                   U
                                                                                                   &u

      &I500                                                                                 6000 3
      Be~                                                                                          L0
      U
                                                                                            4000 2: 6
         1 0 0 0                                      --eCumulativenoInfections
                                                                                                    aJ
      a2                                                     prevented with optimal                .-+m
                                                                                                   U

      .-0 500                                                allocation                     2000 3

      U                                                                                             3
      &0                                                                                           u
       e    o                                                       ,  I                  f 0
      3         0 .5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 6.5 7 7.5 8 8.5 9 9.510
                                       Total HIV Prevention Budget
lo  Secondary infections refer to the infections that arise from one HIV+ person.Their inclusion allows us to take
    into account the multiplier effects of prevention insome subgroups.



                                                          46

A second key finding is that even with a budget o f US$10.0 million, only about 25 percent o f all primary
and secondary infections can be prevented. This is because it is difficult to reach the population groups
that are at highest risk. For example, workshop participants in the three countries estimated that between
40 and 70 percent o f CSW and only around 25 percent o f M S M can be reached with any given
intervention. Ifthese constraints were relaxedto assume that 100 percent o f key risk groups (CSW, M S M
and prisoners) could be reached by prevention interventions, the number o f infections prevented with
US$lO.O million more than doubles in Honduras and reaches 60 percent of all expected primary and
secondary infections in Panama and Guatemala.            This means that after a certain budget level, the
government should not only fund traditional prevention interventions, but also develop strategies to reach
a greater percentage o f high risk groups (e.g. decriminalization, reduction o f stigma, increased service
coverage, etc.).

Third, as the budget for HIV prevention increases, some interventions are still left out o f the optimal
allocation. For example, at a budget o f US$ 5.0 million for prevention (see Table 9.3), the optimal
allocation does not include blood safety or the prevention o f M T C T in Honduras and Guatemala. But
cost-effectiveness is obviously not the sole criterion for making resource allocation decisions. The
Ministry o f Health may want to invest in ensuring that all blood units are HIV-free whether or not this is
very cost-effective. Similarly, policymakers may want to invest further in preventing mother-to child
transmissions for ethical reasons even though it may not be cost-effective when the epidemic i s still
concentrated, and thus not within the model's recommendations.

               Table 9.3: HIV Prevention Budgetof US$1.0 Million and US$ 5.0 Million

Allocation by Intervention                                                   Honduras      Panama   Guatemala

BudgetofUS$ 1,0 Million
Condom Social Marketing                                                       $250,000     $250,000    $250,000
Free CondomDistributionto High-Risk Groups                                    $250,000     $250,000    $250,000
IEC for High-Risk Groups (CSW, MSMand PrisonersiSecurityForces)               $500,000     $250,000   $500,000*
HIV Counselingand Access to RapidTesting                                                   $250,000
Noofpriniuty und seconduty infections prevented with this allocution              5,100       7,250       12,000
Costper inflction prevented                                                        $196        $138          684


Budget ofUS$5.0 Million
HIV Counseling and Access to RapidTesting                                     1,250,000      750,000   1,250,000
IEC for the Garifunas                                                          750,000
IEC for High-Risk Groups (CSW, MSM and PrisonersiSecurityForces)               500,000       500,000   750,000*
Syndromic Managementof STIs                                                   1,000.000      750,000
CondomDistribution in High-Risk Groups                                         500,000       250,000    250,000
Condom Social Marketing                                                        500,000       250,000    750,000
Promotion and Defenseof Human Rights                                            500,000    1,750,000    500,000
IEC for adolescents through targeted media channels                                                     250,000
Mass media campaigns                                                                         250,000    750,000
Preventionof vertical transmission of HIV                                                    500,000
Comprehensiveintervention in People Living with HIViAlDS                                                500,000
*In Guatemalathe IEC strategy to reachthese groups was disaggregatedandthe US$I.O million budgetrefers only
to peer education, andthe US$5.0 million budget refers peer education ($500,000) and targetedmedia channels
($250,000).

This kind o f exercise shows that comprehensive and opportune information and analytical tools are
critical for policymakers in the development o f regional cost effective interventions. The results o f the


                                                       47

application o f the ABC Model to Honduras, Panama, and Guatemala point to a minimum package o f key
interventions that must be carried out because o f their potential impact on the epidemic. One option
would be to use the results from this exercise to ensure reserved spending for the most cost-effective
measures. In the case o f the three countries analyzed, a minimum package would include the following
interventions: condom distribution, condom social marketing, IEC for high risk populations (CSW, M S M
prisoners and security forces) and voluntary counseling and testing. Once funding for these strategies has
been assured, the remaining amount from the HIV prevention budget can then be used to address equity
and socio-political considerations and to fund strategies with medium-to long-term impact.

Second, the results from the exercise suggest that current funding for prevention o f HIV in Central
America is far from adequate. At least U S $ l.O million annually should be invested in each country solely
on the highly cost-effective interventions to avoid between 10 and 20 percent o f new infections. This
does not include financing for blood safety and prevention o f mother-to-child transmission, among others,
which are complementary activities the government would need to continue funding. In 2000, total
funding (both public and private) o f HIV-related public health and prevention activities was US$6.0
million in Honduras, US$ 800,000 in Panama and US$ 2.8 million in Guatemala. But these resources
were not well targeted towards the interventions identified in this exercise as those that would have the
greatest impact on the epidemic.

Finally, the exercise generates a framework for policymakers to engage constructively with the various
stakeholders involved in HIV prevention, including external donors and the Global Fund for AIDS, TB
and Malaria, and guide investment decisions in such a way as to ensure that the priority interventions are
covered adequately.     Explicit comparisons o f the number o f infections averted can be made between
alternative combinations o f prevention strategies, and the effect o f departures from the optimal allocation
for social, ethical, and political reasons can be seen. In addition, the framework clearly sets out the
interventions and their key components, the population groups that will be targeted, the expected
effectiveness and unit cost o f each intervention, the number o f people that they aim to reach, and the
expected impact. These provide ready indicators that can be monitored and updated as the prevention
strategy i s implemented and new data are collected, giving rise to a dynamic and transparent framework
for guidingHIV prevention decisions.

The proposed project would add value to the effectiveness o f national programs by: (a) offering further
options for sharing information and experience; (b) developing a second-generation surveillance system
that will combine several data streams to provide comprehensive and opportune information to support
more precise interventions and impact evaluation; (c) contributing to tackling a key epidemic spread
factor by funding interventions with mobile population; (d) creating access to a regional HIV/AIDS
Laboratory that will avoid duplicity or overlapping on high-cost lab techniques; and (e) creating a
platform to develop economy o f scale ways to reduce the cost o f drugs and lab supplies, increase
efficiencies in service delivery and further financial sustainability.




                                                      48

                                   Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                         CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project

Environmental

The most relevant environmental issues resultingfrom the implementation o f this project are the increase
inthe production o f Health Care Waste (HCW) andthe impact associated with construction activities.

Health Care Waste Management Plan (HCWMP): The Gorgas Institute presented a "Heath Care Waste
Management Plan," which describes the production o f all kinds o f waste at the Institute (about 300
pounds per week).       This waste mainly consists o f biological material, blood and its derivates,
contaminated animals, sharps and needles, and chemical waste. Currently, the Gorgas Institute operates
at 50 percent o f its capacity, thus the expansion to a Regional Laboratory is not expected to represent a
riskto its current operational parameters and systems. To be converted to a Regional facility, the increase
in the production o f health care waste has been identified as the major issue regarding environmental
management.

The HCWMP describes the current operational conditions at the Institute, the amount o f HCW produced,
the current applicable legislation in Panama, and a comprehensive action plan to address the necessary
steps to deal with HCW.

Health Care Waste Management Plan

The objective o f the plan i s to manage, control and reduce risks associated with handling health care
waste inpatients, nurses, doctors, other staff, and visitors.

This plan addresses measures and procedures applicable in a cost effective manner, establishes
procedures, identifies needs o f specialized materials and develops monitoring parameters in order to
verify the effectiveness o f its implementation. The legal framework o f this plan is established by the
Ministryo fHealth inthe Article 58 o fthe General Environmental Law.

    0    The organizational structure o fthe Gorgas Institute is as follows:

The deputy manager of general services i s in charge o f the health care waste management activities. This
office has responsibility for cleaning, performing and handling waste, managing the general shop,
maintenance, transport and Biosafety. Approximately two people are directly involved in coordinating
waste management activities inorder to ensure continuous support to this activity.

At the Gorgas Institute, segregation takes place usingcolor bags. These bags are previously marked and
are handled by trained personnel to avoid mixing with non-health care waste. There are four main colors
(red bags for bio-contaminated waste, yellow bags for special non-biological waste, black bags for regular
non-biological waste, and rigid recipients for sharps and needles). These internal arrangements have been
included in the Health Care Waste Management Plan (HCWMP). Along with these arrangements, an
Operational Manual was developed by the Institute to train its personnel assigned to this task.         The
manual addresses issues such as type o f disinfectants, protection equipment, practices to manipulate the
bags, avoiding contact with humans, verification o f recipients' sealing, procedures for sharp elements,
avoidance o f mixing bags, avoidance o f improperly packed waste and a contingency plan.

Storage and treatment i s also addressed in the plan. There i s a sealed and temperature controlled facility
for temporary storage. The Bio-infectious material is treated through sterilization and in an autoclave,



                                                      49

There are other provisions in the HCWMP that describe treatment o f other waste at the facility. The
HCWMP also contains a chapter on training, implementation monitoring indicators and final disposal.
Arrangements have been made with the municipal waste collection company to collect the treated waste
and transport it to the municipal landfill.

ConstructionActivities

The Gorgas Institute presented the EIA related to its 2001 expansion. This EIA contains construction
practices, which were accepted by the Bank. Since the project will not finance any new facilities, no site
screening criteria were needed. In addition to the pollution by dust and noise, waste management, and
liquid management from construction activities, the main construction issue is that the Gorgas Instituteis
a historically significant building. The Institute has committed to the Bank that renovation activities
will not go against the current building design and, incase o f any changes to the current configuration, the
Institutewould have to inform the authorities in Panama and the Bank for permits.

Social

A social strategy was built into the project design to identify, systematize, document and disseminate
relevant issues and successful experiences dealing with the prevention o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the
six countries included in the project. A social assessment o f the current situation o f HIV/AIDS among
indigenous peoples and Afro-descendants inthe project area was conducted in compliance with the social
safeguard O.D. 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and is a self-standing report. An Indigenous Peoples Plan
(IPP) was formulated to ensure full participation o f organized civil society groups currently working on
epidemiological surveillance with indigenous and Afro-Central American populations locally and
regionally. As per request o f SICA/SISCA during appraisal, the assessment "Evaluaci6n Social y
Estrategia para Pueblos Indigenas y Afro-descendientes" will be attached to the Operational Manual. The
assessment and the IPP are discussed below.

In addition, the study "Evaluation, Discussions and Dissemination of Best Practices for the Prevention
and Control o f HIV/AIDS among vulnerable groups in the project area" will be carried out during
implementation with a grant from the Bank Netherlands Partnership Program with the aim o f
strengthening and scaling up strategic regional plans.

Assessment o fthe current situationo f indigenous and afro-descendant peoples inthe project area
While the HIV/AIDS and ITS epidemic is not necessarily correlated with ethnicity, it is suggested that a
differentiated treatment o f the epidemic among indigenous and afro-descendant peoples is needed given
the cultural and idiosyncratic background o f each group, which may contribute to the mystification ofthe
disease. The literature reviewed suggests other issues affecting the spread o f the disease are poverty, lack
o f education or illiteracy, racial discrimination, lack o f or limited access to health services due to
geographic isolation or cultural self-isolation, and gender equity disparity in groups where male-
dominance and polygamy are culturally accepted.

The project region i s characterized by the presence in different numbers o f over 50 ethnic groups o f
which the mestizo population i s the dominant group. There are, however, over 10 million indigenous and
afro-descendants of which almost 75 percent correspond to Mayan peoples (Guatemala, Honduras, El
Salvador, Nicaragua). Each one o f those ethnic groups has its own concept o f the origin and treatment o f
HIV/AIDS and other diseases, its own health-seeking behavior, and its own traditional health networks,
which extend in some cases beyond national borders. The assessment argues that any HIV/AIDS strategy
demands careful consideration o f existing cultural practices in order for it to be successful.

The assessmentcarried out duringproject preparation had two parts:


                                                     50

    (1) A desk review geared towards (a) examining the legal framework that entitles indigenous peoples
        and afro-descendants access to education, medical assistance and counseling; (b) identifying the
        institutional aspects o f HIV/AIDS prevention currently being used among ethnic groups; and (c)
        mapping the HIV/AIDS incidence among ethnic groups;

    (2) Field consultations among the most affected indigenous group which is the Garifuna.

Ethnic profile. The project region i s multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-lingual. Approximately 27
percent or 10.6 million people in the project region (over 50 ethnic groups) self-identify as indigenous or
afro-descendants. Their origin i s diverse: Mesoamerican, Chibcha (South American) or African. They
make up 20 percent o f the indigenous and afro-descendants o f Latin America as a whole.

Linguistic profile. The linguistic profile i s particularly important not only for the IEC components o f the
project, but also for the identification and monitoring o f those infected with the epidemic. Language is a
significant obstacle for seeking help/guidance in health facilities.        Although Spanish i s the official
languages in these six Central American countries, there are 45 living indigenous languages and their
corresponding dialects are spoken at present.

Education profile. Education i s one o f the most important elements for the prevention o f HIV/AIDS. In
the project area, educational attainment is remarkably lower for indigenous than for non-indigenous
peoples.



Mapping o f HIV/AIDS Epidemic and Demographic Profile
Mapping the incidence o f HIV/AIDS among ethnic groups in the project area was not an easy task given
that (a) country data are not disaggregated by ethnicity; and (b) under-reporting o f the epidemic may be
several times higher than reported figures in autochthonous settings due to lack o f trust in the system,
idiosyncratic or linguistic barriers. The mapping below was done using various sources o f information
including the UNAIDS/WHO 2004 update reports and fact sheets, the Poverty Studies, the Censuses,
PASCA reports, I L O reports and other studies. The sample includes multi-ethnic high-riskgroups (CSW,
MSM, pregnant women) inthe past three years.

 Approximatemappingof the IncidenceofHIVIAIDS in indigenousand afro-descendantsareas in
                                              the projectregion.

  Country                              % of       Most affectedregions         Ethnic Groups       Sero-
                                        total      heavily inhabited by                         prevalence
                                       POPU        indigenous and Afro-                           Ranking
                                       lation      descendant peoples11                             %
Guatemala                               60.0     PuertoBarrios             Garifha                10-24.9
                                                 San Marcos                maya Mam                1- 4.9
                                                 Huehuetenango             maya Mam                1- 4,9
                                                 GuatemalaCity             mestizo-indigena        1- 4.9
                                                 Retalhuleu                maya                    1 4.9
                                                 Escuintla                 maya                    1- 4.9



l1 UNAIDS/WHO working group on HIV/AIDS Global, and STC surveillance, in collaboration with the Public
Health Mapping Team of WHO have produced a series of maps which show the geographic location ofthe epidemic
andpopulation density, and the contamination corridors using existing data.



                                                        51

T
Honduras                950,000  I   14.5     SanPedro Sula           mestizo-garifuna              10- 24.9
                                              PuertoCortes            mestizo-garifuna              5- 9.9
                                              Tegucigalpa             various                       5- 9.9
                                              Olancho                 mestizo-pech                   5- 9.9
                                              ElProgreso, Yoro        mestizo-chorti-                5- 9.9
                                                                      garifuna-tolupan
                        610,000      11.0     Managua                 mestizo                        5- 9.9

                                              Leon                     mestizo-sutiaba               5- 9.9
                                              Chinandega               mestizo-sutiaba               5- 9.9
                                              M A N                    Miskito, mayagna              1- 4.9
                                              M A S                    Creole, garifuna,             5- 9.9
T                                                                      miskito
                                                                       Mestizo                       1- 4.9
Panama                                                                 Kuna, Naso/Teribe             1- 4.9

                                              Prov. of West Panama     Mestizo, Kuna, Afro-          1- 4.9
                                                                       Panamefios
                                              PanamaMetropolitana      Mestizo, Kuna,                5- 9.9
                                              San Miguelito            Afro-Panamanian
                                              Dist.de Colon            AfroPanamanian                5- 9.9
                        469,000       7.0     San Salvador             mixedpopulation              10- 24.9
                                              Sonsonate                mixedpopulation                 < 1
                                              Santa Ana                mixed population                < 1
                                              L a Libertad             mixedpopulation                 < 1
L                        69,000     1.7 Ind   Prov. San Jose           Mestizo andmixed             5 - 9.9
                         78,000    1.9Afr
                                              Alajuela                                                 d a
                                              Cartago                  Mestizo                         nia
                                              Heredia                                                  d a
                                              Limon                    Afro CostaRican                 nla
TOTAL                  10,626,0001   27.0    I
Source: Own elaboratio based on datdinformation of Census, Indigenous Profiles, MinistriesiSecretariat of Health,
ILO, PASCA, UNAIDS/WHO Epidemiological Fact Sheets -2004 Update.

From the above mapping and that of UNAIDS/WHO, it is possible to see some patterns or corridors of
infection along indigenous or Afro-Caribbean territories, which coincide to a large extent with urban
migration for seasonal work, urban centers with high rate of migratory population, urbanized centers (in
departments, districts or municipalities) with high mobility patterns along sea ports, international
highways, touristic places, maquilas (factories), plantations which provide seasonalwork. The following
ethnic groups have either been identifiedas highrisk or are likely to be at risk:

(a) The Garifuna peoples which live in the Department of Izabal (particularly Barrios Port) in Guatemala,
   the Caribbean Coast o f Honduras including the city o f San Pedro Sula, and the English-speaking black
    peoples of Bay Islands, which have very close relations with the Garifuna, particularly with those
    living inPunta Gorda (Bay Islands).
(b)The Mestizo, Garifuna, Tolupan and Chorti peoples living in El Progreso, Dept. of Yoro inHonduras,
    characterized by a mobile population o f seasonal workers laboring in a large number of maquilas for
   the manufacturing ofclothing and other items.
(c)The Kuna peoples o f Kuna Yala Islands in Panama who migrate seasonally (work or schooling)
   between the islands and Panama Metropolitan Area. Another area o f concern is the San Miguelito




                                                     52

      area in Metropolitan Panama characterized by high indices o f violence, commercial sex work and
     transient populations. The KunaNega and other Kuna communities settled inthe District o f Chepo.
(d)Also inPanama, the Afro-Panamanian peoples who live in the Districts o f Col6n and to a lesser extent
      in Darien (Panama East Province).           The free zone o f Colon and the Panama Canal zone are
      characterized by heavy internationaltraffic.
(e)The Mayan peoples o f the department o f Izabal in Guatemala, plus those o f PetCn, San Marcos,
     Huehuetenango, Quetzaltenango,           and Highlands who migrate back-and-forth to the Southern
     departments including Escuintla, Suchitepeque, Chimaltenango, and borders with Honduras and
     Mexico.
( f ) The indigenous people living inthe urban and peri-urban areas o f San Salvador, El Salvador.
(g)The Sutiaba peoples living in the Departments o f Leon and Chinandega along the Pacific Ocean in
     Nicaragua.
(h)The Creole, Garifuna and Miskito peoples living in the Southern Autonomous Region o f the Atlantic
      Coast o fNicaragua( M A S ) , particularly in the Port o f Bluefields.

Some newly identified affected groups are "housewives," and orphans. Orphanages and social protection
for orphans are at high demand in affected communities.


Other findings o f the assessment, with regardto HIV/AIDS:

a. Legal recognition o f the rights o f indigenous peoples to a culturally appropriate treatment. The
       assessment points out that:
       9 All the Constitutions of the participating countries, except for El Salvador, recognize the
             existence o f indigenous peoples in their territories, and legitimize the right to preserve the
             languages, identity, traditions and cultural traits.
       9 All the Constitutions, except for that of Costa Rica, have undergone adjustments after the
             ratification o f the ILO Agreement No. 169 on the Rights o f Indigenous Peoples.
       9 All countries, except for Nicaragua, have ratified either the ILO Agreements No. 107 (1957) or
             No. 169 (1989). In all the countries o f the region, the above agreements supersede the national
             laws. (BariC, Indigenous Peoples and Constitutional Rights in LatinAmerica, 2003).

b. Most NGOs interviewed are aware o f the existence o f legislation to protect those infected with the
       H N , however, many o f them request training on procedural issues. Most of the people affected by
       the disease ignore their rights and duties and are very afraid to disclose information to the government
       for fear o f losing their jobs or their rights as citizens o f the country. Education for the general public,
       (including medical staff) in disease surveillance and treatment i s urgently needed in all the countries
       o f the project area.

c. The concept o f "Intercultural Health" is commonly used in indigenous and afro-descendant circles
       and is receiving increasing attention for prevention o f HIV/AIDS.            Intercultural health seeks to
       capitalize on the best uses o f both allopathic and indigenous medicine, to provide people with
       alternative choices for the ailments.

       The importance o f the concept o f Consuetudinary Rights, as a tool for HIV/AIDS surveillance and
       control.     Traditional healers, once trained, may be the best communicators/educators o f the
       community on prevention o f HIV/AIDS and STDs. There is an urgent need to demystify the disease.
       Consuetudinary rights, also called `primitive rights' are given to people o f an ethnic group by
       "customary tradition."      This provides a framework for the existence o f customary institutions and
       societal stratification.    It also provides the basis for beliefs and cosmovision.       Traditional health
       networks presently operating in communities follow certain rules or codes agreed on by tradition, for


                                                             53

    health surveillance and disease treatment. Traditional ethnotherapy (herbs, massages, rubbing, rites),
    widely used to provide relief to people suffering from HIV/AIDS i s part o f that tradition. Traditional
    ethnotherapists provide advice and educate patients. They have different labels in each ethnic group
    (`buyei ' among Garifuna; `comadronas (midwives)',          `curanderos (shamans)' and `Aj Q'ijab"
    (spiritual guides)' among the Mayans; `parteras comunitarias (midwives)' in El Salvador; `sukias'
    (herbalists)' among the Miskitos, etc.). In every ethnic group, the origin o f HIV/AIDS may have
    different explanations (anger o f ancestors, cosmic phenomenon, punishment o f Gods, etc.) far from a
    biological explanation. Therefore, it i s particularlv important to educate traditional healers on the true
    origin of the disease, preventative measures, legal rights, where to seek help, and so on. These
    networks o f healers/counselors are the first to be contacted by most people who are sick or suspect to
    be sick. Healers work in close contact with traditional midwives and healthpromoters. According to
    the Garifuna, training the `buyei' (as an NGO is doing)           has so far given the best results for
    prevention o f HIV/AIDS and STDs.

d. Most sentinel surveillance systems are passive, however, `active' surveillance programs are needed to
    identify patients, accompany them to a health posthospital, monitor their behavior, and provide
    support.


The Indigenous, Afro-descendants and Gender Planfor the CentralAmerica RegionalHIV/AIDSProiect
Given the presence o f indigenous and afro-descendant people inthe project region, an Indigenous Peoples
Plan (IPP) has been incorporated inthe project designand will be implemented as part o f the project. The
IPP has the following objectives:
    1. To ensure that the indigenous and afro-Central American peoples in the project region benefit
        from the project ina manner that is equitable and culturally adequate;
    2. To ensure full and active participation o f NGOs, Associations and organized community
        surveillance groups inthe workshops planned under Component 3.
    3.  To initiate in the indigenous and afro-Central American communities a dialogue and open
        discussion o f the epidemic in order to demystify the disease as an abstract phenomenon, and
        reveal it as a disease that can be preventedthrough behavior modification.

Indigenous and Gender Plan agreed upon at appraisal

For the efficient implementation o f the Indigenous Plan, at least one member representing ethnic groups
affected by HIV/AIDS will be part o f the National and Regional Initiative Committees (NICs and RIC) in
order to participate in the decision-making processes for the design and implementation o f strategies to
prevent and control HIV/AIDS under the project.

Components 2 and 3:
A Regional Diagnosis o f HIV/AIDS among indigenous and afro-Central American peoples inthe project
area will be contracted with a firm. The consultancy would include: (a) a desk review o f existing data, an
inventory o f public and private organizations working on HIV/AIDS, a discussion o f good/best practices
on surveillance, treatment, and the struggle against discrimination and stigma; and (b) workshops and
focus groups in the regions identified as epidemic corridors (see 14 suggested workshops in Operational
Manual), inorder to discuss current practices and elaborate Regional Strategic Plans for each corridor.

Component 4:
Given that approximately 25 percent of the population inthe project region corresponds to indigenous and
afro-Central American peoples, an equivalent percentage o f the component funds shall be earmarked
exclusively to finance proposals from networks o f women's groups, NGOs, Associations and organized
ethnic groups.


                                                      54

Protocol for dissemination of information and Calls for Proposals in a culturally adequate manner. Calls
for Proposals, information on procedures for submission of proposals, subproject eligibility criteria and
selection criteria for proposals should be advertised in Spanish and in the languages of the indigenous and
afro-Central American peoples, preferably through radio announcements and colorful posters placed in
health establishments. Recommended languages are: Spanish and Mam, K'iche, Q'ekchi, K'aqchikel,
and Garifuna in Guatemala; Spanish and Garifuna, Miskito, Ch'orti, Pech, in Honduras; Spanish, Kuna
and Ngabe in Panama; Spanish and Miskito, Creole English and Sutiaba in Nicaragua; and Spanish in El
Salvador and Costa Rica.

     Selection Criteria of Proposals to be financed under Component 4:

        At least 25 percent o f the subprojects proposed by NGOdConsortia must benefit one or more
        indigenous or afro-Central American group(s), and should promote participation of traditional
        networks (midwifes, ethno-therapists, elders, and traditional healers);
        The proposed subproject must include an IEC strategy carried out in the language of the
        beneficiaries;
        The proponent shouldwork preferablybi-nationally or internationally; and
        The NGOs/Consortia must have at leasttwo years of experience working with HIV/AIDS

Suggestedoutcome indicators of the IPP are:

        No. of epidemiological surveillance systems which have includedthe ethnicity variable;
        No. o f financed proposals coming from indigenous and afro-Central American groups.




                                                     55

                         Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                         CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project

                                                        Planned                    Actual
PCN review                                            0311812004                  0311812004
InitialPID to PIC                                     07/09/2004                  07/09/2004
InitialISDS to PIC                                    0711612004                  07/16/2004
Appraisal                                             02/07/2005                  01I1012005
Negotiations                                          02/07/2005
BoardlRVP approval                                    0312912005
Planned date of effectiveness                         0511512005
Planned date of mid-term review                       01I1512008
Planned closing date                                  1013012010


Key institutionsresponsible for preparation of the project:

         SG-SICA- General Secretariat of General Central American Integration System

         COMISCA - Central American Council ofMinistersofHealth
         SISCA -Central American Secretariat for Social Integration

         Ministriesof Health inthe CentralAmerica Region
         GORGAS Memorial Institutefor Health Research
         UNAIDS-UnitedNations Programfor HIVIAIDS
         PAHOIWHO-Pan-AmericanHealth Organization- World Health Organization
         CDC -US Centers for Disease Control
         USAID-United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
         IOM- InternationalOrganization for Migration

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                             Title                        Unit
Jorne C. Barrientos                           Consultant                     LCSHD
Makelo Bortman                              Task Manager                     LCSHD
Jose Ram6nGomez                          SafeguardsConsultant                LCSEN
Andrea Guedes                             Operations Officer                 LCSHD
Evangeline Javier                              Director                      LCSHD
MartaMolares-Halberg                        LeadCounsel                      LEGLA
FabienneMroczka                             E T Consultant                  LCOAA
Julie Nannucci                         Lang.ProgramAssistant                 LCSHD
ReynaldoPastor                                Sr Counsel                     LEGLA
Mariangeles Sabella                        Senior Counsel                    LEGLA
Helen Saxenian                           Former Task Manager                 LCSHD
RajeevK. Swami                     FinancialManagement Specialist           LCOAA
Ximena Traa                                   Consultant                     LCSHD
JosephJ. Valadez                     Sr. Monitoring & Eval. Spec.           HDNGA
MoragN.Van Praag                        Senior Finance Officer               LOAG1
RudolfV. Van Puvmbroeck                     LeadCounsel                      LEGVP
ManuelVargas                      Sr FinancialManagement Specialist         LCOAA
EvelynVillatoro                         Procurement Specialist               LCOPR




                                                     56

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:

    1.  Bankresources:                            189,000
   2.    Trust funds:                              50,845
   3.    Total:                                   239,845

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:

   4.    Remaining costs to approval:              600.00
    5.   Estimated annual supervision cost:    120,000.00




                                             57

                            Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
                        CENTRAL AMERICA -Regional HIV/AIDS Project


a. IDA Staff Assessments

       Evaluaci6n Social y Estrategia para Pueblos Indigenas y Afro-descendientes

b. SISCA/SICA and COMISCA Resolutions

       Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama Governments. "Carta de
       la Organizacidn de Estados Centroamericanos (ODECA), Ciudad de Panamci, Reptiblica de
       Panamci,12de diciembre de 1962"

       Presidents of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua AND Panama.
        "Protocolo de Tegucigalpa, 13 de diciembrede 1991"

       Presidents of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. "Tratado
       de la Integracidn Social Centroamericana,(Tratado de San Salvador) 30 de Marzo 1995"

       COMISCA. "Acta de Antigua. Guatemala,18de agosto de 2000.       "



       COMISCA. "Reglamento Consejode Ministros de Saludde Centroame`rica.El Salvador, 30 de
       marzo de 2001".

        COMISCA. "Resoluciones de lazreunidn del Consejode Ministros de Saludde
        Centroambrica, Guatemala,23 de abril de 2004"

        SISCA. "Resolucidn No7de la XXI reunibn del Consejode Ministros de Salud de
        Centroame`rica,El Salvador, 8 de octubrede 2004"


c. Other

        Instituto Conmemorativo GORGAS, "Plan de Gesti6n de Residuos Peligrosos"

        Belize, Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. "Plan de Accidn
       Estrate`gicode Vigilancia de SegundaGeneracibndel VIHpara CentroAme`rica2004       - 2007"

        The World Bank. HIV/AIDS in CentralAmerica. An overview of the epidemic andpriorities for
       prevention. September 2003

        CDC, UNAIDS, IDA, Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
       Lab assessment of HIV/AIDSNational Laboratories, July 2004

        Maritza Rios, Informe de misidn de"Evaluacibn de necesidades del Laboratorio de Referencia en
        VIH/SIDApara CentroAme`rica,Instituto ConmemorativoGorgas de Estudios de Salud"




                                                 58

         Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits
       CENTRALAMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project
N/A

             Annex 14: Country at a Glance
       CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project
N/A

               Annex 15: Map: IBRD33823
       CENTRAL AMERICA -RegionalHIV/AIDS Project




                          59


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                      85                                                        CENTRAL AMERICA
                                                                  Chetumal


                                                                                                                                                      ALTITUDE (IN METERS)                PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                   Belize
                                                                                                                                                                                          AIRPORTS
                                                               Belmopan                                                                                     4,000 m+
                 MEXICO                                                                                                                                        2,0004,000 m
                                    UsumacintaFlores                                                                                                             5002,000 m              SELECTED CITIES
                                                          BELIZE                                                                                                                                                                          15S
                                                                        Gulf of                                                                                     200500 m
                                                                                                                                                                         0200 m          NATIONAL CAPITALS

                                                                      Honduras                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                             Puerto
                                                                                                                                       below sea level
                                                            Barrios                                     Iriona
                               GUATEMALA                                             La Ceiba
                                                                       San Pedro Sula
                                               Cobn                                                              Coco
                               Tajumulco                               HONDURAS                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                         80                          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

              15              4220                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                      and any other information shown on
                 Quetzaltenango                                                                                                                                                                       this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                      The World Bank Group, any judgment
                              Guatemala                                                  Danli                                                                                                        on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                               Tegucigalpa                                                                                                                            any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                      such boundaries.
                                   Escuintla
                                                     Santa San
                                                      Ana  SalvadorSan                          NICARAGUA                                                C a r i b b e a n
                                                         EL            Miguel
                                                                                                                                                                       S e a
                   P A C I F I C                 SALVADOR                           Len                            Rama

                     O C E A N                                                                   Managua

                                                    90
                                                                               Lake     Granada
                                                                             Managua                                                                                                                                                       10

                                                                                       Lake                     San
                                                                                    Nicaragua                        Juan


                                                                                                                        Iraz     Puerto
                                                                                                                       3432       Limn                                     Coln
                                                                                                                                                                 Panama
                                                                                                      Puntarenas
                                                                                                                   San                                             Canal            DE PANAMA

                                                             10                                                   Jos   COSTA                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                U   Panama
                                                                                                                            RICA                                               M

                                                                                                                      Palmar Sur                                                                                                  COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                      David       PANAMA                 ISTH

                                                                                                                                                                                      Gulf

                              CENTRAL                                                                                                                                Chitr           of
                             AMERICA
                                                                                                                                                                                    Panama
FEBRUARY                                                                                                                                  COIBA I.                                                                                             IBRD
                                                                 0        100        200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   33823
        2005                                                     0               100                200 Miles
                                                                                                               85                                                               80

