Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
CONCEPT STAGE
Report No.:  AB758
Project Name
Central America Aids
Region
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Sector
Health (100%)
Project ID
P082243
Borrower(s)
TO BE DISCUSSED
Implementing Agency
TO BE DISCUSSED
Environm
ent Category
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Safeguard Classification
[ ] S
1
[ ] S
2
[ ] S
3
[ ] S
F
[ ] TBD (to be determined)
Date PID Prepared
March 9, 2004
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization
November 14, 20
04
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval
March 3, 2005
1.
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
The  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  in  Central  America  is  serious  and  is  worsening,  although  there  is 
remarkable variation in the epidemic across the small co
untries in the subregion.  Adult HIV 
prevalence estimates are highest for Honduras (1.6%), followed by Panama (1.5%), Guatemala 
(1%), El Salvador (0.6%), Costa Rica (0.6%), and Nicaragua (0.2%).  The epidemic is still, by 
and large, concentrated in high
-
ri
sk populations
—
men who have sex with men, commercial sex 
workers,  prisoners,  and,  in  Honduras,  the  Garifunas.    Recent  projections  for  El  Salvador, 
Guatemala, and Panama illustrate how the epidemic could reach adult prevalence levels of close 
to 2% in those
 countries by 2010 on current patterns.   The success of country
-
level control 
programs  is  linked,  as  each  country’s  control  efforts  depend  in  part  on  the  success  of  their 
neighbors, given migration patterns in the region, especially of commercial sex work
ers.  Current 
prevention programs need to be strengthened to alter the course of the epidemic.  With domestic 
resources and external resources from donors, particularly USAID and the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, TB, and Malaria, all the countries in the regi
on are trying to scale up prevention and 
treatment programs.    
The challenges to scaling up Central American country responses to the epidemic are large. On 
the  side  of  prevention,  the  countries  need  to  strengthen  and  scale  up  key  activities  such  as 
epi
demiological surveillance, access to voluntary counseling and rapid HIV testing, syndromic 
management  of  sexually
-
transmitted  infections,  behavior  change  communication  targeted  at 
high
-
risk  groups,  condom  distribution  to  high
-
risk  groups,    condom  social  ma
rketing  to  the 
broader population, mass media education, and promotion and defense of human rights of people 
living with HIV/AIDS.  On the comprehensive care side, most countries are trying to scale up 
publicly
-
financed access to antiretroviral treatment a
nd all countries are trying to strengthen the 
treatment of opportunistic infections.  
Most of these activities are best carried out at the country level, but there are aspects of some of 
them that, largely because of economies of scale issues or because 
they will be most successful if 
Page  2
carried out in a coordinated way across countries, could be better addressed at a regional level.  
Most  donors  are  supporting  country
-
level  efforts.    Only  two  donors,  KfW  and  USAID,  are 
supporting or have supported coordinat
ed regional activities for HIV/AIDS.  Their efforts have 
supported  condom  social  marketing  (KfW  and  USAID)  and  epidemiological  surveillance 
(USAID).    And,  of  course,  PAHO,  UNAIDS,  and  CDC  are  providing  coordinated  technical 
support at the regional level.  
But there is a gap in financial support for key HIV/AIDS activities 
that are best addressed  regionally.  Some of the activities that are best addressed  regionally 
include  regional  training  programs  in  laboratories  and  epidemiological  surveillance,  the 
deve
lopment  of  a  regional  reference  laboratory  and  regional  laboratory  training,  regionally 
coordinated surveillance, documenting and sharing of best practices in prevention and care, and 
efforts to prevent HIV in mobile populations.  There is currently no sup
port from donors for a 
regional reference laboratory, and support for regional training and regional surveys has been 
sporadic and ad hoc. 
Bank  support  to  date
.    The  Bank  is  working  with  governments  to  better  understand  what 
investments  need  to  be  made  i
n  HIV  prevention  to  reverse  the  epidemic.    The  Bank  has 
supported participatory workshops in four countries to date (Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, 
and Panama) to apply the ABC model (allocation by cost
-
effectiveness) to better understand 
priorities  for 
HIV  prevention  interventions.    The  Bank  is  supporting  modest  HIV/AIDS 
components in projects in Honduras and El Salvador and is ready to provide more support at the 
country level in all the countries, given its concerns about the epidemic in Central Americ
a.  But 
little demand is expected for Bank lending at the country
-
level, as most countries are grappling 
with how to best absorb the grant resources already committed from sources such as the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria.  In this context, th
e Bank could make a vital contribution 
by helping to fill the resource gap at the 
regional
 level.  The proposed project would support 
regional efforts in develop a regional reference diagnostic center(s) and associated laboratory 
training, to support coord
inated sentinel surveillance, to systematically share best practices in 
prevention  and  treatment,  and  to  help  prevent  HIV  in  migrant  populations.    These  regional 
efforts would complement country
-
level programs and help ensure their success.    
Key donors
 and technical assistance agencies (CDC, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and 
Malaria, KfW, PAHO, UNAIDS, and USAID) would like to see the Bank fill this gap.  Based on 
their interest, grant cofinancing or parallel financing will be explored for the proj
ect.  CDC has 
indicated that it can finance the laboratory assessment as part of project preparation costs.  To 
date, some of the Ministers of Health have been consulted, bilaterally, about the proposed project 
and  are  supportive.    The  Ministers  will  be  co
nsulted  as  a  group  in  April  at  the  upcoming 
COMISCA
1
 meeting.  Ministers will be asked to nominate a counterpart from their country to 
serve on a steering committee during project preparation.
2.
Proposed objective(s)
The project will improve access to 
high quality diagnosis for HIV/AIDS, STDs and 
opportunistic 
infections and contribute to build a regional surveillance system for these health problems. It will 
also  contribute  to  the  cross  fertilization  of  best  practices  among  countries,  and  support 
compr
ehensive  bi/multinational  subprojects  to  prevent  HIV/AIDS  and  STDs  in  mobile 
1
 Consejo de Ministros de Salud de Centro A
mérica
Page  3
populations.  It will help the countries move from ad hoc, sporadic activity in these key areas to 
institutionalized, sustainable activities.
3.
Preliminary description
A project o
f US$ 8 million is proposed with four components over a five
-
year period. The costs 
and activities presented below are indicative and will be prioritized and refined in the process of 
project preparation.   
Component 1
. 
Support to a Reference Diagnostic 
Center and Laboratory Training (US$ 5 
million)
. This component will support the development of a regional reference diagnostic center 
to carry out highly
-
specialized functions that, because of economies of scale, make most sense to 
be done at a regional ce
nter.  These include:  (a) confirmatory HIV tests (in the case of 
conflicting previous tests); (b) specialized diagnostics in the areas of HIV, STIs, and 
opportunistic infections, such as drug
-
resistant TB; (c) quality control for national labs; and (d) 
re
gional trainings for lab workers.  Depending on the results of a detailed assessment to be 
carried out as part of project preparation, the reference lab may be not just one site but may 
include the development of two to three “centers of excellence” each s
erving different purposes.  
The assessment will identify what services are needed to serve scaled up HIV/AIDS programs 
that are best done, in terms of costs and quality, at a regional reference center(s).   As countries 
scale up their national programs, th
e demand for confirmatory HIV tests, other specialized 
diagnostics, and training of lab workers is expected to soar.  In terms of quality control, currently 
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is playing the role of quality assurance of national 
lab
s, on demand.  The CDC would like to see their role, which is sporadic at best, devolved to a 
regional lab that can help do quality control of national labs on a more systematic basis.   
Lessons from the CAREC (Caribbean Epidemiology Centre) will be examin
ed as part of an 
assessment to consider how the long run recurrent costs of the reference lab would be funded.  
CAREC derives its funding from annual contributions from member states, as well as from 
donors for specific projects.  The reference lab could b
e public or a public/private partnership.   
Component 2. Support for epidemiological surveillance 
(US$ 1.5 million)
. This component 
will finance: (a) regional training and the design of coordinated surveillance systems; (b) 
regional information dissemina
tion (e.g. internet based dissemination of statistics); (c) regionally 
coordinated sentinel surveys such as the recent multicentric study that has yielded so much 
useful information on the evolution of the epidemic in high
-
risk groups across Central Americ
a.  
Standardization of case definitions, surveillance strategies, and indicators is key to monitoring 
the epidemic in the region.  PAHO and CDC have been trying to replace outdated surveillance 
approaches with “second generation” surveillance (including pe
riodic HIV surveillance in high
-
risk groups and behavioral risk factor surveillance) and the project will support these efforts.   
Component 3. Strengthening response capacity 
(US$ 0.5 million)
. 
This component will 
support the sharing of best practice on
 prevention and comprehensive care from health sector, 
non
-
health sector government and civil society organizations initiatives, and will explore ways to 
pool procurement of some supplies and pharmaceutical products. Recent workshops carried out 
in four Ce
ntral American countries to analyze cost
-
effective interventions have concluded that 
only 25% of all primary and secondary infections can be prevented if we do not find new 
Page  4
strategies to reach population groups that are at highest risk.  The component will
 also focus in 
the dissemination of “not successful stories” that are draining limited resources.   
Component 4. Prevention in mobile/migrant populations 
(US$ 1 million)
. 
Mobile 
populations can be especially vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other sexually
-
tran
smitted infections 
(STIs) and be a factor in the epidemic’s spread.  Some of these populations include truckers, 
seasonal migrant workers, and commercial sex workers.  Sometimes women have transactional 
sex related to crossing borders, putting them at grea
t risk.  Prevention programs focusing on 
these populations are still few and work at a small scale.  The Project will support the 
development of a regional framework for mobile/migrant policies and regulations and through 
subprojects, this component will a
lso finance the scaling up of some successful projects and new 
bi or multinational projects developing new strategies to protect these populations.
Under IDA13, IDA grant financing is available for regional HIV/AIDS projects where the 
project benefits acc
rue to the region and are indivisible.  For regional projects, the financing 
needs to flow through a regional organization.  In this case, the Central American Bank for 
Economic Integration (CABEI), headquartered in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, is a strong candi
date.  
While Panama is not a member of CABEI, CABEI is exploring how it can find a window to 
work with Panama as well as the other Central American countries.  CABEI is already playing a 
regional role in a regional condom social marketing project supported
 by KfW and wishes to 
increase its activity in the area of HIV/AIDS.  As the administrative agent, CABEI would 
transfer funding to groups to execute specific project tasks.  It would play an financial oversight 
role.  As CABEI does not have the needed tech
nical expertise in HIV/AIDS, various mechanisms 
for technical coordination and oversight of the project will be explored.  Possibilities include 
creating a technical unit under COMISCA.
4.
Safeguard policies that might apply
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 
of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]  
TO BE DETERMINED
5.
Tentative financing
Source:
($m.)
BORR
OWER/RECIPIENT
2
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
8
Total
10
6.
Contact point
Contact: Marcelo Bortman
Title: Public Health Specialist
Tel: (202) 458
-
9730
Fax:  (202) 522
-
1201
Email: Mbortman@worldbank.org
