Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1229 
Project Name 
CENTRAL AMERICA HIV/AIDS PROJECT 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P082243 
Recipient (s) 
SGSICA - Secretaria General del Sistema de la
 Integración 
Centroamericana 
Implementing Agency 
Central American Secretariat for Social Integration (SISCA)
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 3, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
January 5, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
March 29, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background
In the past 20 years, around 600,000 people in the Latin America and Caribbean Region (LAC) have died 
from AIDS. Today, two million people live with HIV/AIDS and approximately 567 contract the HIV 
virus every day.  In the six Central American countries (El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Nicaragua and Panama) the HIV/AIDS epidemic is serious and is worsening.  The number of reported 
AIDS cases reached about 37,500 from 1998 to 2003 and deaths from AIDS are among the main 10 
causes of deaths in three out of the six countries included in the Project.  
 
Though countries in Central America share certain characteristics--they are comparatively small, have 
active trade and a substantial internal and external migration with other regions (i.e. Mexico and United 
States)--the patterns of the epidemic have marked differences across countries. Official adult HIV 
prevalence estimates are highest for Honduras (1.6%), followed by Panama (1.5%), Guatemala (1%), El 
Salvador (0.6%), Costa Rica (0.6%), and Nicaragua (0.2%), but s
urveillance systems in all countries in 
the region have major problems of coverage, under-diagnosis and underreporting.  Testing is not widely 
available, and more than 70% of all cases of HIV are only diagnosed once people become symptomatic. 
To better assess the extent of the epidemic, the Central American HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (PASCA) 
recently conducted a multi-country sentinel survey that clearly
 shows that the epidemic is still mainly 
concentrated in high-risk populations
—men who have sex with men (MSM) and commercial sex workers 
(CSW).  Prisoners and the Garifunas (an Afro-Caribbean population group), s
treet children and the 
security forces (police, military) are probably also high-risk groups. 
 HIV transmission in Central 
America is primarily due to heterosexual sex, which is more similar to the Caribbean than the South 
American pattern.  Additionally, per capita spending in 2000 was very low in all countries ranging from 
one to three dollars per inhabitant. Annex 1 provides more detailed information about the epidemic in 
each country. 
 
All countries have a national HIV/AIDS program, including:  strategic plans to prevent and control the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic; the development of surveillance systems; access to voluntary counseling and HIV 
testing; behavior change and condom distribution campaigns targeted to high-risk groups; and the 
promotion and defense of the human rights of people living with HIV/AIDS. But implementation of these 
Page  2
2
strategic plans in all countries is very slow. All HIV/AIDS programs work independently within the 
ministries of health (MOH), and all countries have passed special laws to protect those living with 
HIV/AIDS and their families.  Programs success varies a lot from country to country but, generally, 
indicators show poor regional achievements.  
 
Each country in the region needs to strengthen and scale up its national strategic plans and there is 
substantial scope for enhanced regional cooperation as well, taking advantage of economies of scale, good 
regional cooperation and the nature of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Regional initiatives will be most fruitful 
in the areas of:  behavior change communication targeted to high-risk groups and mobile populations; 
implementing standardized second generation HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STI) 
surveillance systems
1
;
developing a regional legal framework; and improving access to rapid diagnostics 
including HIV testing, tHIV/AIDS special tests, and ITS and opportunistic infections (OI) diagnosis. 
 
Additionally, most countries are trying to scale up publicly financed access to antiretroviral treatment 
(ART) and all countries are trying to strengthen the treatment of opportunistic infections, increasing the 
needed budget to support their HIV/AIDS programs.  In many cases, their support has implied limiting 
resources for prevention.  At the same time, NGOs are active in prevention, care, and treatment in all 
countries in Central America, with support from governments and international agencies.  
 
It is only recently that governments across the region, having grasped the seriousness of the impact of 
HIV/AIDS on the sustainable development of Central America, have taken initiatives to strengthen 
prevention, surveillance, advocacy, national capacity and training, 
anti-
discrimination and civil rights and 
regional coordination.  However, a stronger concerted effort is needed.  The Central America 
Commission of Ministers of Health (COMISCA) has become a key forum for promoting and agreeing on 
initiatives to address the issues mentioned above.
 
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to provide knowledge and tools to decision makers in all countries 
in the region to manage and control HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic infections
2
.
This would be 
achieved through providing countries better access to high quality diagnosis of HIV/AIDS infections, a 
regional second generation surveillance system for the epidemic, enhancing cross/fertilization of better 
practices in epidemic prevention and control, and reducing mobile populations’ vulnerability to 
HIV/AIDS. 
 
The key project outcome will be the development and application of a regional strategy and action plan to 
prevent and control the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including: prevention and management plans; a focus on the 
promotion of human rights; access to HIV testing, counseling and integrated treatment; an HIV/AIDS 
Regional Surveillance System; and the bulk purchase of ARV, lab tests and other related medical 
supplies.  This framework will constitute a Regional Action Plan agreed by COMISCA.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
Most of the activities included in the national action plans are best carried out at the country level.  There 
are however, several aspects best addressed on regional level because of economies of scale or the 
1
Second generation surveillance seeks to combine several data streams including AIDS case surveillance, HIV 
seroprevalence surveillance, STI surveillance, and behavioral surveillance, into a comprehensive data stream. 
2
Opportunistic infections are those mild to severe infectious diseases that are uncommon except when they are 
given an "opportunity" to infect a person. The opportunity is usually a problem with the immune system (as 
HIV/AIDS). 
Page  3
3
benefits gleaned by using a coordination approach cross countries. These areas include: scaling up 
successful initiatives, strengthening the participation of civil society, preventing HIV/AIDS on mobile 
population at both sides of boundaries, following a comprehensive approach to prevention, care, treatment 
and institutional capacity.  Most donors are supporting country-level efforts.  All countries have now 
access to Global Fund resources, and several projects are supporting national HIV/AIDS programs as 
detailed in Annex 2.  But the regional challenge is currently how to scale up implementation capacity, and 
better focus efforts to have a larger impact on curbing the epidemic. Interventions included in the Project 
are critical for supporting this effort, since they are not funded by the Global Fund, the vehicle that has 
become the main source for financing national programs. 
 
Two donors, KfW and USAID, are supporting or have supported coordinated regional activities for 
HIV/AIDS, including condom social marketing and epidemiological surveillance.  Simultaneously, 
PAHO UNAIDS, and CDC are providing coordinated technical support at the regional level.  But there is 
a
gap in financial support for key HIV/AIDS activities that are best addressed regionally.  Such activities 
can include regional training programs in HIV/AIDS programs management and epidemiological 
surveillance, the development of a regional reference laboratory, a regionally coordinated surveillance, 
documenting and sharing of best practices in prevention and care, and efforts to prevent HIV in mobile 
populations.   
 
The str
ategy for addressing HIV/AIDS in Central America is consistent with the World Bank’s corporate 
strategy for fighting the epidemic world-wide. HIV/AIDS poses an unparalleled threat to global health 
and well-being. With more than 40 million people worldwide currently living with HIV, the epidemic is 
eroding human welfare, socioeconomic progress, productivity and social cohesion. Since the 1980s when 
the epidemic began, the World Bank has been the single largest provider of financial support for 
HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. In the last few years, about US$2billion have been 
committed through grants, loans and credits for HIV/AIDS activities worldwide. The Bank's mission of 
reducing poverty and supporting development necessitates action on HIV/AIDS. As such, fighting 
HIV/AIDS is a core strategy of the World Bank Group's development agenda. To meet the AIDS crisis, 
the World Bank's strategy is focused on strengthening regional capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic at regional, country, and sector levels, strengthen the capacity of member countries to design, 
implement, monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of HIV/AIDS programs, building a substantially 
stronger and more effective global response, and assisting in mobilizing additional resources globally to 
begin to reverse and halt the epidemic. 
 
Recently two regional projects were approved under IDA grants to support regional efforts to coordinate 
and strengthen the impact of national HIV/AIDS programs.  In March 2004, a $9 million International 
Development Association (IDA) grant was approved to fund the four-year PANCAP project to be 
implemented by the CARICOM Secretariat, beneficing its members: Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, 
Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic (observer member of CARICOM), Grenada, Haiti, 
Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Lucia, Guyana, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and 
Tobago, and Suriname.  Additionally, in June 2004, an IDA grant of US$60 million was approved in 
support of a regional program which aims to increase access to HIV/AIDS treatment in three African 
countries: Burkina Faso, Ghana, and Mozambique. 
 
The Bank has been supporting Central American governments to develop initiatives needed to prevent 
HIV and reverse the epidemic.  It has sponsored participatory workshops to better understand priorities 
for HIV prevention interventions and it has included small HIV/AIDS components in health projects in 
Honduras and El Salvador.  However, little demand is expected for Bank lending for HIV/AIDS programs 
at the country-level, as most countries are grappling with how to best absorb grant resources already 
committed from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and other sources. The Central 
American governments have been working with PAHO and the CDC to develop a regional framework for 
Page  4
4
setting up regional HIV/AIDS second-generation surveillance systems, but little progress has been made 
mainly due to shortage of adequate financing.   At this time, the Bank is in a good position to make a 
meaningful contribution by supporting badly needed initiatives that can be best addressed with a regional 
perspective.  This proposed project would address these needs by supporting  regional efforts to develop a 
regional HIV/AIDS laboratory, to support coordinated sentinel surveillance, to systematically share best 
practices in prevention, and to help prevent HIV in mobile populations.  Key donors and technical 
assistance agencies (the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria, PAHO, UNAIDS, UNFPA, IOM, 
CDC, KfW and USAID) have indicated their support to this approach.  
 
4. Project Description
The project seeks to support a regional Central American initiative aimed at better control of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic, building on the efforts of  individual countries..  Such actions will provide countries 
in the region with better access to high quality diagnosis of HIV/AIDS infections, a regional second 
generation surveillance system for the epidemics, enhancedregional capacity for cross/fertilization of 
good practice  epidemic prevention and control measures, and reduced vulnerability to HIV/AIDS of 
mobile populations.  A project of US$ 8 million is proposed, with five components, to be implemented 
over a five-year period.  
 
I.  Regional
 
laboratory (US$ 3.7 million)
.
This component will support the establishment of a regional 
reference diagnostic center for confirmatory and specialized HIV and opportunistic infections.  The 
regional laboratory would also become a specialized regional training center on HIV/AIDS related 
technologies, develop HIV/AIDS testing information systems , carry out specialized research on 
technologies for testing HIV/AIDS viruses, become the regional center for quality control of HIV/AIDS 
national laboratories, and control the quality of  HIV-related supplies. Investments under this component 
have been estimated at about US$3.7 million, including contingencies, and they would support the 
establishment of the regional laboratory/center including its initial operation.  The facilities would operate 
as part of the 
Gorgas Memorial Institute for Health Research
 in Panama. 
 
II.  Epidemiological surveillance (US$ 1.3 million)
.
This component will support setting up a regional 
second generation epidemiological surveillance system
3
that would enable a better characterization of the 
nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemics in Central America.  An information system would be set up that 
would integrate country information and disseminate it throughout the region. Data will be disaggregated 
by age, gender and ethnicity and whenever possible, by population mobility.  Investments under this 
component are estimated at about US$1.3 million and they will include, in addition to the information 
system, the establishment of a regional training program, the carrying out of regionally coordinated 
sentinel surveys among the most vulnerable groups (seasonal mobile workers, CSW, MSM, and highly-
vulnerable ethnic groups such as Honduran Garífuna and Kuna communities), and the use of the internet 
to disseminate statistics on prevalence, incidence, risk factors, and other useful information.  All these 
activities would be closely coordinated with PAHO and CDC’s ongoing efforts aimed at replacing 
outdated surveillance approaches with second-generation surveillance.  The regional training program 
would include the development of regular courses(curricula and materials) to be implemented rotationally 
in the Central American countries.  
 
III.  Strengthening the regional response capacity (US$ 0.6 million). 
This component will seek to 
increase the harmonization of legal and institutional frameworks needed to scale up strategic interventions 
to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemics. It would also seek to strengthen leadership and political 
commitment leading to a Regional Action Plan with common policies and strategies for addressing the 
3
Second generation surveillance combines several data streams including Aids case surveillance, HIV 
seroprevalence surveillance, STI surveillance, and behavioral surveillance, into a comprehensive data stream. 
Page  5
5
epidemic in a coordinated way. A desk review and a series of workshops at regional level with health and 
non-health institutions and civil society representatives would examine the HIV/AIDS legal framework, 
including civil rights, integral treatment access, and regulations for drug and lab supplies This review 
would serve as the basis for the adoption of common criteria and a common agency to make the scientific 
and medical determinations of quality, safety and 
effectiveness. Workshops would also seek to share ‘best 
practices’ and unsuccessful stories that drain resources. Special workshops will be organized for  ethnic 
groups (i.e. Garífuna, Kuna) in vulnerable areas. A database of best practices would be developed and 
disseminated through the internet. 
 
IV.  Prevention in mobile populations (US$ 1.5 million)
.
The key objective of this component will be 
to contribute to reducing the vulnerability of mobile populations to HIV/AIDS and other STIs.  Mobile 
populations, mainly truck drivers, seasonal mobile workers, and commercial sex workers, can be 
especially vulnerable to HIV/AIDS and other sexually-transmitted infections (STIs) and be a factor in the 
epidemic’s spread.  This component will support ongoing and new prevention subprojects (excluding 
treatment) carried out by NGOs or a group of NGOs working in more than one country, selected through 
a
competitive process.  It will also strengthen the abilities of groups working with mobile populations 
through training programs.  It is estimated that US$1.5 million will be invested in his component, 
financing consultancy services, training programs and upgrading and supporting new projects being 
undertaken by NGOs and selected through competitive processes.  
 
V.  Project Management (US$0.9 million). 
This component will focus on Project Administration and it 
will finance technical assistance of five long-term technical consultants in the PCU and computing and 
office equipment and furniture. The PCU will work under the SISCA supervision, and the project 
coordinator will be responsible to establish and maintain liaison with SISCA/COMISCA, the Gorgas 
Institute, and the National HIV-AIDS programs. 
 
5. Financing
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
8 
 Total 
8 
 
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Central American Secretariat for Social Integration (SISCA), an 
arm of the permanent entity that manages the integration process (Central American Integration System, 
SICA, created by the “Protocolo de Tegucigalpa”, December, 1991) agreed by the heads of state of its 
member countries.  The Central American Commission of Ministers of Health (COMISCA), under 
SISCA, would provide technical support and participate in key decisions.  The management and 
coordinating unit—Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)—will be located in SISCA and will be headed by a 
project coordinator who will have a small technical staff and specialized support from consultants as 
needed.  The PCU will have direct responsibility for implementing all activities related to epidemiological 
surveillance, strengthening the response capacity and prevention in mobile populations.  The HIV/AIDS 
Regional Laboratory will be implemented in a decentralized manner by affiliation with the Gorgas 
Institute in Panama, (See annex 6).   
 
The HIV/AIDS Regional Laboratory will be managed by a coordinator who will be appointed by 
COMISCA, after a competitive selection process managed by SISCA.  The technical oversight of 
Page  6
6
implementation and operation of the regional laboratory will be entrusted to an advisory council 
integrated by the heads of the national HIV/AIDS laboratories.  In particular, this council will monitor 
progress of implementation and operation of the center and it will endorse strategic plans and the annual 
operating program to be approved by SISCA.  This approach is expected to establish client orientation 
practices in the work of the regional diagnostic center providing services that respond adequately and 
effectively to the demands of the national laboratories.  It should be noted that during the initial phases of 
establishing the regional laboratory the coordinator would play a project management role which would 
evolve to a more technical role after commissioning the facilities.  Eventually, both roles could be played 
by the same person.  
 
SISCA, through the PCU, will be the guarantor of compliance with the requirements and procedures 
established in the Loan Agreement and the Project Operational Manual, and as such will be responsible 
for overseeing the satisfactory implementation of the project.  SISCA, also through the PCU, will be 
responsible for monitoring the achievement of the project development objectives and performance 
indicators. In 
particular, it will coordinate and facilitate the regional diagnostic center’s activities and 
provide it with financial resources and support on procurement and financial management issues. 
 
7. Sustainability
The key sustainability issue related to this project is the continuous operation of the HIV/AIDS regional 
laboratory after the project is completed.  SG-SICA and SISCA have agreed to seek commitment letters 
from the Ministers of Finance of participating countries to financially support the laboratory after  the 
project is implemented.  The Grant Agreement would include a covenant requesting that SG-SICA and 
SISCA follow up with the countries to set up and contribute to an endowment trust fund during project 
implementation.  The implementation of the Regional Surveillance System only needs the Project initial 
technical and financial support.  It is estimated that coordinated national resources will be sufficient to 
maintain the Regional System thereafter.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Broad lessons have been learned in the organization and management of effective national HIV/AIDS 
prevention and control projects that have been financed to date. 
 
The following lessons have been relevant to the design of the proposed project: 
 
·
The need to build strong regional commitments and constituencies advocating for HIV/AIDS 
prevention and control because HIV/AIDS epidemic is, by its nature, a public health issue with 
substantial externalities cutting across geographic borders  
 
·
The importance of regional political leadership and advocacy to support the needs of persons 
living with AIDS, the policies for large-scale drugs and lab supplies procurement and other drug 
cost control strategies, recognizing the needs of specific vulnerable groups in society.  All of the 
above required multi-sectoral government, support regional actions and adequate budgets; 
 
·
The need to coordinate the collection and dissemination of information to backstop and 
complement purely national actions; 
 
Page  7
7
·
The identification and training of professionals to alleviate the regional  key constraint of human 
resources; and 
 
·
The desirability of sharing facilities, infrastructure and specialized services and sources of 
professional expertise that would be beyond the means of individual countries. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [x] 
[ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[x] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
CENTRAL AMERICA 
–
Regional HIV/AIDS Project 
 
a. IDA Staff Assessments 
 
Environmental Assessment:  “Plan de Gestión de Residuos Sólidos” 
 
Social Assessment: “
Evaluación Social y Estrategia para Pueblos Indígenas y Afro-
descendientes”. 
 
b. SISCA/SICA and COMISCA Resolutions 
 
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama Governments
.
“Carta de 
la Organización de Estados Centroamericanos (ODECA), Ciudad de Panamá, República de 
Panamá,12 de diciembre de 1962” 
 
Presidents of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua AND Panama. 
“Protocolo de Tegucigalpa, 13 de diciembre de 1991” 
 
Presidents of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama.
 “Tratado 
de la Integración Social Centroamericana, (Tratado de San Salvador) 30 de Marzo 1995” 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
8
COMISCA. “
Acta de Antigua. Guatemala, 18 de agosto de 2000.” 
 
COMISCA. “
Reglamento Consejo de Ministros de Salud de Centroamérica. El Salvador, 30 de 
marzo de 2001”. 
 
COMISCA. “
Resoluciones de la XX
 reunión del Consejo de Ministros de Salud de 
Centroamérica, Guatemala, 23 de abril de 2004”
 
SISCA. “
Resolución Nº 7 de la XXI reunión del Consejo de Ministros de Salud de 
Centroamérica, El Salvador, 8 de octubre de 2004”
 
c. Other 
 
Belize, Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama
.
“Plan de Acción 
Estratégico de Vigilancia de Segunda Generación del VIH para Centro América 2004 - 2007” 
 
The World Bank. 
HIV/AIDS in Central America.  An overview of the epidemic and priorities for 
prevention. September 2003
 
CDC, UNAIDS, IDA, Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. 
Lab assessment of HIV/AIDS National Laboratories, July 2004 
 
11. Contact point
Contact: Carlos Marcelo Bortman 
Title: Public Health Specialist. 
Tel: (202) 458-9730 
Fax: (202) 614-0202 
Email: mbortman@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
