RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                   Report No. P-818
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ESTABLECIMIENTO PUBLICO EMPRESAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
May 13, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELORENT
REPORT AND RECOIlvIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ESTABLECIMIENTO PUBLICO EMFRESAS MUNICIPAIES DE CALI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$18.5 million to
the Establecimiento Fublico Empresas lNunicipales de Cali (Emcali) for a
water supply and sewerage 1roJect.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would be the Bank's second loan for water
supply and sewerage in Colombia. The first loan (536 CO) for US$14 mil-
lion to the Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota was made in
June 1968 for the expansion and improvement of Bogota's water supply
system.
3.        A Bank mission to Colombia appraised the proposed Project in
September 1969, and negotiations were held in Washington from March 30
through April 9, 1970. Emcali was represented by the General Manager,
Mr. Garces, and by the Financial Director, Mr. Arana. The Colombian Gov-
ernment was represented by Mr. Barrera of the National Planning Depart-
ment.  Mr. 2engifo, Mayor of Cali, attended the negotiations on behalf of
the city of Cali.
4.        The proposed loan, which would be the forty-third made to
Colombia, and the proposed loan of US$52.3 million to Interconexion
Electrica S.A. for the Chivor Hydroelectric Project, would increase the
amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$727.6 million (net of cancella-
tions), of which US$485.7 million is now held by the Bank. IDA has made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia.   A summary state-
ment of Bank loans and IDA credits to Colombia as of April 30, 1970 was
included in my Report and Recommendation on the proposed loan for the
Chivor Hydroelectric Project (B-817), dated May 13, 1970.



5.        The status of disbursements on loans is described in paragraph 5
of my Report and Recommendation on the loan for the Second Education Project
(P-799), dated April 30, 1970.
6.        IFC has made 34 investments and underwriting commitments in
seventeen enterprises in Colombia totalling US$17.9 million (net of cancel-
lations).
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE FROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                     Establecimiento Publico Empresas
Municipales de Cali (Emcali).
Guarantor:                    Republic of Colombia.
Furpose:                     To assist in financing the expansion
and improvement of the water supply
and sewerage system in the city of
Cali.
Amount:                       The equivalent in various currencies
of US$18.5 million.
Amortization:                 In 25 years, including a 8-year
grace period, through 42 semi-
annual installments beginning
August 1, 1974 and ending
February 1, 1995.
Interest Rate:                7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:            3/4 of one percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the Project is given in the attadhed
report entitled "Appraisal of the Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project"
(PU-30a).
9.        With the encouragement of the Bank, the Colombian Government is
studying the national water supply and sewerage sector to prepare long-
range goals and a short-term program. The results of this study should be
available in late 1970, but in the meantime, the Colombian Government is
giving priority to the water and sewerage services in the large and medium-
sized cities, which are growing rapidly. These developments are associated
with improvements in public utility tariff policy under the recently esta-



- 3-
blished Pablic Utilities Tariff Board.
10.        The proposed Borrower and executing agency, the Establecimiento
Fublico Empresas Municipales de Cali (Emcali), is an autonomous public
entity which was created in 1961 by municipal decree to provide water supply,
sewerage, power distribution and telecommunication services. Emcali's Board
is composed of six members: two elected by the Sunicipal Council, one
nominated by the Mayor, one nominated by the Board of the Banco de la Repu..
blica in Cali and two members representing major Colombian creditors of
Emcali.
11.        Cali is the third city of Colombia and the political, administra-
tive and industrial center of the Department of Valle. Its population,
presently 920,000, has been increasing at nearly 8 percent annually. A
large part of this growth is the result of mechanization of the commer-
cialized agriculture of the Department of Valle, which has tended to re-
duce the demand for farm labor, and of rural poverty in neighboring depart-
ments where agriculture is dominated by small holders.
12.        Of Cali's present population of 920,000, 710,000 are served by
the water and sewerage system. By 1973 when population is expected to
reach 1,100,000 over 1,000,000 people will be served, representing an
increase of about 300,000 in three years. Services would be extended to
areas inhabited by the city's lowest income groups where, on account of
inadequate sanitation, health conditions are inferior to those elsewhere in
the city.
13.        The water supply portion of the Froject includes a new intake
and a water treatment plant on the Cauca River, and new or improved supply
lines and house connections, and some new distribution lines. The sewerage
portion includes a major sewerage interceptor, which will reduce pollution
of water at the intake of the water treatment plant, a pumping station,trunk
and    secondary sewers and drainage canals for the removal of storm water.
The Foject does not include a sewerage treatment plant, as pollution of
the river downstream from Cali is expected to remain at tolerable levels
at least until 1975, and possibly until 1985.
1.        The financial requirements of the Project total   US$37.5 million,
consisting of US$33.5 million estimated Project cost and US$4.0 million
estimated interest on the Bank and local loans. The proposed loan of US$18.5
million would finance approximately one-half of the total requirements. All
bidding would be on an international competitive basis. About US$11 million
of the loan would be used to pay for the foreign exchange cost of consultants'
services and the cost of imported equipment, materials, supplies and tools,



and US$2.1 million would finance interest and other charges on the Bank
loan.   The remaining US$7.5 million would be for local expenditure.    Local
firms are expected to win the civil works contracts because of their
technical and financial capacity and their natural competitive advantage,
and various items of equipment, materials, supplies and tools can best be
procured locally. Some 41 percent of the cost of these items would be
covered by the loan. Despite Colombia's efforts to mobilize domestic re-
sources for development, there remains a gap which has to be financed
externally. The amount of external financing required for this purpose
cannot be fully provided if external lenders finance only the import
content of key projects, and in these exceptional circumstances and taking
into account the importance of the proposed project, I consider that the
inclusion of some local expenditure financing is justified.
15.        The water supply and sewerage division of Emcali will contribute
the equivalent of about US$10 million to the financial requirements of the
Project from its own revenues and capital receipts. A Government loan equi-
valent to about US$9 million, bearing interest at 14 percent per annum and
repayable over a period of eleven years after a grace period of four years,
will complete the Project's financing plan. The Loan Agreement provides
that water rates will be set to achieve a rate of return on revalued assets
of two and one-half percent in 1970, to be gradually increased to eight
percent by 1978. Emcali has established a program, duly authorized by
its Board of Directors and the National Tariff Board, according to which
the combined water supply and sewerage tariffs will be increased by
Col. $0.016 per cubic meter every month from June 1, 1970 through December
1, 1973. On the basis of these rates, the financial rate of return on
the incremental investment being undertaken under the Project would be
about 14 percent. To maintain Emcali's overall financial equilibrium, the
company has also undertaken to maintain in its power and telephone divisons
a rate of return of 7 percent on revalued assets. Debt service will be
covered about one and a half times.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Establecimiento
Publico Empresas Nunicipales de Cali and the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, as well as a Report of
the Committee, provided for in Article III, Section b(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



17.        The draft Loan Agreement contains provisions generally used
for water supply and sewerage projects. Section 5.12 contains rate of
return requirements not only for water and sewerage services but also for
Emcali's power and telecommunication services. The debt limitation
covenant in Section 5.08 applies to power and telecommunication services
as well as to the water supply and sewerage services.
18.        The Guarantee Agreement does not differ in substance from previous
agreements with the nepublic of Colombia.   The Guarantor would agree to
take all steps necessary on its part to enable Emcali to set and maintain
its tariffs at the levels specified in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.05).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.        A summary of recent developments and a favorable conclusion
regarding Colombia's creditworthiness for additional external borrowing
was contained in paragraphs 15 - 20 of my Report and Recommendation on
the loan for the Second Education Project (P-799), dated April 30, 1970.
PART VI - COMPIIANCE WITH THE ARTICIES OF AGREEMENr
20.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMDENDATION
21.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McMamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 13, 1970



