CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 682 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 4, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 682 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 4, 1970


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Establecimiento Publico Empresas Municipales de Cali (hereinafter called the
Borrower), which agreement and the schedules therein referred to are hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the B'irower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($18,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan and to provide the Borrower with additional
funds required to carry out the Project, as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower and so to provide the Borrower with additional funds;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and


﻿4
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption
of the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual performance of all the
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in the
Bonds.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01  of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically     undertakes to   make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause
the Borrower to be provided with (i) an amount equivalent to one hundred eighty
million pesos (Col. $180,000,000) bearing interest at the rate of fourteen per cent
(14%) per annum and repayable over a period of eleven years after a grace period
of four years, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and (ii) whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower, including
the before-mentioned   amount, will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures on the terms and conditions set forth in sub-section (i).
ARTICLE Ill
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of a lien
on governmental assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Guarantor as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, (a) the term  "assets of the Guarantor" includes
assets of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any Agency
or of Banco de la Republica or any other institution acting as the central bank
of the Guarantor, and (b) the term "Agency" means any agency or instrumentality
of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include
any institution or organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations
of which are conducted primarily in the interest of or for account of the Guarantor
or any political subdivision of the Guarantor.


﻿5
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Guarantor, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Guarantor and the international balance of
payments position of the Guarantor.
(b)   The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the
service thereof.
(c)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
Section 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes,
and free from all restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Guarantor, provided,
*       however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 3.04. This Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, promptly as required, take all steps
necessary on its part to enable the Borrower to set and maintain its tariffs at
the levels specified in Section 5.12 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Guarantor
and such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated
as authorized representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10
of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Colombia
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios, Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, Colombia
Alternative address for cables:
Minhacienda
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Guarantee Agreement


﻿7
to be signed in their respective names and delivered in Bogota, Distrito Especial,
Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By   /s/ Abdon Espinosa Valderrama
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


