Document of
X, (Sj0S)71                       llThe World ]Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-21 46-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES AUTHORITY OF TIHAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
September 16, 1977.
This document hns a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =            Baht (g)
US$1                                Baht 20.0
US$0.05                             Baht 1.0
US$49,020                           Baht 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai                               1,600 sq. m.
it                 =0.16 ha
to                 =17,204 sq. ft.
it                 =             0.395 acres
1 hectare                           6.2 rai/2.4710 acres
1 acre                              2.5 rai
1 Km=                               0.6214 miles
1 meter                             3.281 feet
meter2                              1.196 sq. yards
ABBREVIATIONS
IEAT       -       Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
UNIDO      -       United Nations Industrial Development
Organization
BOI        -       Board of Investment
IFCT       -       Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
SIFO       -       Small Industries Finance Office
ISI        -       Industries Service Institute
EPZ        -       Export Processing Zone
MEA        -       Metropolitan Electricity Authority
TOT        -       Telephone Organization of Thailand
NHA        -       National Housing Authority
FISCAL YEAR
Thailand - October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THAILAND
LAT KRABANG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT)
Guarantor:             The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                $4.75 million
Terms:                 20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% per annum.
Project Description:   The project is a part of a long range program to estab-
lish industrial estates and export processing zones
designed to provide the needed sites and services for
attracting industry away from the congested core of
Bangkok in a first phase and develop additional faci-
lities at more distant regional locations in a second
phase. The project consists of (a) acquisition and
development of 162 ha of land at Lat Krabang (35 km
east of Bangkok) into industrial sites; (b) construction
of about 10 km of internal roads and a surface drainage
system; (c) installation of an internal power and street
lighting distribution system connecting with an external
25 MW capacity substation lines; (d) installation of a
water supply and distribution system, including fire
hydrants; (e) installation of sewage disposal and waste
treatment facilities; (f) installation of radio telephone
system connected to an automatic branch exchange to
provide initially a minimum of about 120 telephone lines;
(g) construction of five standard factory buildings of
about 2100 sq m each, of which four will be located within
the Export Processing Zone to be established on about
20 ha of the estate; (h) construction of an administration
building, housing units for essential personnel and a
maintenance workshop; and (i) engineering/architectural
services and technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
Project Item                           Local     Foreign      Total    % of Total
- US$ million) -------------
A. Land Acquisition                    1.25            -       1.25      15.4
B. Land Development & Site
Equipment                        2.1.3       2.53       4.66       57.5
C.  Buildings                          0.87        0.93        1.80      22.2
D. Engineering/Architectural
Services and Technical
Assistance                       0.23        0,17        0.40       4.9
E.  Contingencies:                     0.85        0,95        1.80      22.1
Total                              5.33        4.58        9.91     122.1
Finarncing Plan
Government Equity                    3.87            -       3.87      39.1
Internal Cash Generation             1.29           -        1.29      12.9
Proposed Bank Loan                   0.17        4.58        4.75      48.0
Total                           5.33        4.58        9.91     100.0
Estimated Disbursements:               ----            $'000 ----------------
Bank FY     1978       1979       1980       1981
Annual:                           575       2075        1750        350
Cumulative:                       575       2650        4400       4750
Financial Rate of Return:   The financial return over 25 years in real (con-
stant 1976) terms is 11.5%.
Appraisal Report:           No. 1530-TH dated September 16, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand, with the guarantee
of the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $4.75 million to help
finance an Industrial Estate Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years' of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280A-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1976 and to members of
the Consultative Group for Thailand in February 1977. Country data are
given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        After a year of political uncertainties and following the eruption
of violence at the Thammasat University between left-wing students and right-
wing groups, some 24 high ranking military officers seized power on October 6,
1976 and formed the National Administrative Reform Council (NARC), headed
by Admiral Sangad Chalawyoo. NARC abrogated the 1974 Constitution, dissolved
the National Assembly and outlawed all political parties. On NARC's recommen-
dation, the King appointed Thanin Kraiwichian, a Senior Judge of the Supreme
Court, as Prime Minister. The Prime Minister and a Cabinet of 17 members
drawn from a wide range of backgrounds, promulgated a new Constitution, which
provides for, among other things, the establishment of a National Administra-
tive Reform Assembly and a phased return to full democracy over 16 years.
The Assembly consisting of 340 appointed members irst met on November 25,
1976, when NARC, which had been acting as an interim legislature, assumed an
advisory role to the Cabinet. Under the Constitution, the Prime Minister has
wide ranging powers on matters relating to law and order and national security.
4.        Thailand's growth record over the past decade has been good.
Rapid growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded
average annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10% respectively,
enabled real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20% to 27% of GDP, with private
fixed investment constituting at least two-thirds of total fixed investment
each year. The share of gross domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19% to 22%.
As a result, in no year did the resource gap (import surplus needed to finance
the levels of consumption and investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was
considerably less in most years.



- 2 -
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 4.6% in 1974 to 5.5% in 1975, and a growth rate of close to 6.5% is
estimated for 1976. In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when the
external sector and private investment provided the main impetus to growth,
the much-needed stimuli to demand in 1975 and 1976 came from the public
sector, with a strong expansion in export receipts reinforcing the growth of
domestic demand in the latter year.
6.       The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rapid rise in export earnings. Both in 1975 and 1976 the
balance of payments registered much higher current account deficits than in
the previous years ($600 million in 1975 and $500 million in 1976 compared
to $90 million in 1974), because of the decline in Thailand's terms of trade
by almost 25% between 1973 and 1976. The import price index rose by over 50%
in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however, a substantial improve-
ment in prices of most of the country's major exports helped to limit the
decline in the terms of trade to about 10%. In 1975 and 1976, on the other
hand, although import price increases moderated, export prices stabilized or
fell and there was a further substantial fall in the terms of trade.
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves, which had increased in 1974, declined by $195
million to $1,369 million in 1975. Although there was some improvement in
foreign direct investment, total private inflows declined further in 1976.
Public capital inflows, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
country's first Eurodollar loan of $100 million was drawn down and project
loans committed in 1974/75 began to be disbursed. Taking into account an SDR
67 million loan under the compensatory financing scheme of the International
Monetary Fund, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded a small
surplus. The country's reserves equalled about 4-1/2 months imports at the
end of 1976.
8.        Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976. Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.7% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        The Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives include a growth target of
7%, a more equitable distribution of income, reduction in the rate of popula-
tion growth, faster generation of employment opportunities and a better



- 3 -
balanced development of the different regions. Projected public sector
development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as
compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan
(1972-76). Although sectoral issues and strategies were addressed only in
broad terms and concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's economic and
social objectives remain to be defined, the Government has clearly expressed
its commitment to the objectives of the Plan. The Bank has therefore recently
begun a more intensified program of economic studies with the intention of
assisting the Government in defining a policy and investment framework for
implementation of the Fourth Plan. These studies and concurrent work under
way within the Government are focusing on problems of employment and income
distribution and will help better define the policy issues involved.
10.       Although these studies are not yet completed, preliminary findings
indicate that social and economic progress in the future may require a more
active role of the Government. Agriculture growth in the past has been based
to a large extent on expansion of cultivated areas. Prospect for further
expansion of area is now very limited and future growth of the sector will
have to be based mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated area,
improvement in yields, continued diversification of crops and, in some areas,
different forms of cropping patterns and farming practices, all of which may
require increased government assistance to the private rural sector. Further-
more, a significant part of the rural population, mainly in the North and
Northeast regions, has not fully participated in the recent growth of rural
income and special programs will have to be formulated to accelerate income
growth in these areas. In the past, public rural investment has concentrated
on the expansion of the irrigation network in the central plain. A greater
effort through research, extension services and rural infrastructure develop-
ment to develop the upland areas where income levels of the average farmers
are much lower than in the irrigated areas is now required to ensure continued
growth of the agricultural sector as well as to improve the distribution of
income.
11.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the momentum of future growth will have
to originate increasingly in the industrial sector.   Industry, construction
and services will inevitably have to provide an increasing share of employ-
ment and income opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy
and programs should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force at increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be
required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also
offers opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment
and processed agricultural products as well as production for foreign markets.
12.       A problem that has received increasing attention is the country's
relatively high rate of population growth.    Starting in the late 1960s the
Government has given steadily increasing attention to fertility reduction.



- 4 -
Considerable success has been achieved in developing a national family
planning program, and the population growth rate has been reduced from
over 3% in the late 1960s to an estimated 2.6% in 1976. The crude birth rate
is estimated to have fallen from 42 to 34 (per thousand)/I; a further drop
to 29-30 (per thousand) is targeted for 1981, for which a growth rate of 2.1%
has been set. Encouraging progress has been made in recruiting acceptors
from the rural areas as well as from cities and towns. Achieving the 1981
demographic targets will depend on a strengthening and expansion of rural
health and family planning services, including their extension to the village
level, and on continuing the Ministry of Public Health's past success in
upgrading the effectiveness of the contraceptive "mix". A greater effort to
strengthen long-term demand for family planning is being launched during the
Fourth Plan, since it is recognized that more and more acceptors will have to
come from groups whose motivation is now weak.
13.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will therefore require much greater efforts to mobilize
both domestic and external resources than in the Third Plan period. With the
economy's steady recovery, the need for prudent deficit financing has les-
sened; consequently, the recent decline in the rate of public savings will
need to be reversed. At the same time, the deterioration in the country's
terms of trade has raised substantially the external capital flows needed for
achieving a satisfactory rate of growth.
14.       The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth
Plan is likely to require commitments of about $3-3.5 billion in project
financing and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources
such as Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries'
export financing acilities. At their meeting of March 22 and 23, 1977,
members of the Consultative Group considered these amounts reasonable. These
external borrowing requirements should not place a heavy burden on the
country's debt servicing capacity. The projected public sector external
borrowing would raise the public debt service ratio (service payments on
public debt as a percentage of exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981.
The service ratio for total debt, which amounted to 15.4% in 1975, is
projected to remain below 17% throughout the Fourth Plan period.
/1 The current population growth and birth rates quoted here differ from
the "most recent estimates" given in Annex I; because the latter, in
order to achieve comparability among countries, refer to average rates
for 1970-75.



-5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 39
loans amounting to $893.9 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($163.8 million) and
power ($166 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and
irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water
supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 mil-
lion), industry ($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock
($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million) and national agricultural
extension ($28 million). One loan for irrigation ($55 million) and another
for power generation ($50 million) have been signed but are not yet effective.
In addition, Thailand has received three IDA credits; $19.5 million for
education and two credits of $12.5 million for irrigation improvement. In
general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments (as of August 31, 1977), as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In recent months-this year, loans have been approved for national
agricultural extension, irrigation and power development. In the next year
or two, projects to support a broad range of agricultural development, rural
infrastructure, education, small- and medium-scale industries and low-cost
housing and neighborhood improvement along with an IDA credit for family
planning would account for about two thirds of the proposed program. Con-
tinued lending is also planned for power projects; in transportation the
emphasis is shifting from major highways to provincial and rural roads. The
Bank continues to diversify its lending program in Thailand with the objective
of assisting the government expand its effort to improve the distribution of
income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of growth; increasingly, projects
are selected and designed to spread development benefits to the lower income
groups and the more needy regions. One of the main functions of the Bank's
Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist the Government in developing projects
to meet the above objectives. The Bank's readiness to finance some local
costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank to participate more fully in
projects in the agricultural and social sectors that have significant social
benefits.
17.       As of December 31, 1976, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $309 million, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share-is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
18.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totaling $380,000, two loans to and an investment in
the Siam Cement group totaling $32.08 million, a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products Ltd., an equity investment of approximately $300,000 in the Mutual
Fund Company Ltd. and, more recently, a loan for $2.5 million and an equity
investment of $200,000 in United Sugar Terminal Co. Prospects for other IFC



- 6 -
operations are reasonably good; IFC has been asked to arrange the debt financ-
ing of approximately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining and refinery
project. Prospective projects are the development of privately sponsored
industrial estates to complement the government's industrial estates develop-
ment program, and a chemical project to produce carbon black for domestic
tire manufacturers. The Capital Markets Department has been invited to
assist the Government Housing Bank and is appraising a project to provide
loans to small business through local commercial banks.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Sector Performance
19.       The industrial sector (manufacturing, mining and construction)
is the second largest in Thailand after Agriculture. In 1976, it accounted
for 26% of GDP, about 28% of total investment and 6% of total employment.
Manufacturing alone accounted for about 21% of GDP in 1976. In 1960, it
had accounted for less than 12% of GDP and was oriented almost entirely
toward producing consumer goods for the domestic market. With substantial
opportunities for import substitution and an environment which encouraged
investment, manufacturing output grew at an annual average rate of around 11%
(in real terms) between 1970 and 1976. However, as the easier import substi-
tution opportunities were exhausted, investment in the 1970s shifted towards
export industries.  Between 1970 and 1976, manufactured exports increased
from about $144 million to $1,063 million, or from 20% of total exports to
37%. The most important industries are food processing (including sugar),
beverages, tobacco, textiles and wearing apparel, foot-wear, rubber, transport
equipment, and chemicals and petroleum refining.
Investment
20.       Investment in manufacturing had grown from $193 million (in constant
1962 prices) in 1968 to about $414 million in 1976. The share of manufactur-
ing (which accounted for about one third of the total annual expenditures on
machinery and equipment) in gross fixed capital formation rose from 12.5% in
1967 to over 23% in 1974 but dipped slightly to around 22% in 1975 and 21% in
1976, when investment in manufacturing industry declined for the first time
since 1971. Although applications for investment permits have continued to
decline in recent years, it is expected, under the current improved domestic
and international situation, that with the projected overall economic growth
rate of about 7%, industrial sector growth would reach over 9% per annum in
the Fourth Plan period (1977-81).
Industrial Promotion
LI.       So far the Government has relied on tax incentives and tariffs to
promote industrial development and to encourage private investment in priority
areas. These measures have been successful to a certain extent, especially



in attracting foreign investments. Joint ventures of Thai and foreign
partners accounted for $445 million (64.6%) of the total registered capital of
all promoted enterprises between 1960 and June 1977; with foreign investors
providing about 42% of the joint venture capital. However, in 1975, a Bank
staff study concluded that these policies were favoring industries producing
for the domestic market rather than those producing for export, that different
protection levels were applied within and between various industry groups and
that frequent changes in the application of tariffs, pricing, licensing and
other policies had introduced inconsistencies in the Government's industrial
promotion policies and had caused a heavy administrative burden on the Board
of Investment (BOI). The Government has recently agreed to undertake a joint
study with the Bank to prepare an action plan for a more coordinated approach
to industrial development which will meet the national objectives of the
Fourth Plan.
Industrial Financing
22.       Sector development, however, has been slowed by a scarcity of medium-
and long-term credit. The main sources of industrial financing are commercial
banks, investment banks, suppliers' credits, and IFCT. Commercial and invest-
ment banks are the largest institutional source of industrial financing, but
their lending is through renewable short-term overdrafts and is limited
mainly to well-established borrowers. However, since 1973, IFCT has played
an increasingly significant role in extending medium and long-term loans [of
a minimum of Baht 1 million ($50,000)] to private industrial enterprises in
channeling investments outside the Central Region and in agro-industrial
projects. Its current development strategy includes further decentralization
of industrial investment and providing finance for projects sponsored by less
well established investors, which cannot attract commercial bank financing.
To help finance the foreign exchange costs of industrial projects, the Bank
has made three loans to the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
(IFCT); the first ($2.5 million) in 1964, the second ($12 million) in 1974
and the most recent ($25 million) in 1976.
23.       To assist small-scale industry, the Government has set up two
specialized institutions - the Small Industries Finance Office (SIFO) and the
Industries Service Institute (ISI). SIFO extends long- and medium-term loans
of less than Baht 1 million ($50,000), but it's lending has been modest and
in the period 1964 to 1976 loans approved amounted to about Baht 262 million
(US$13 million) benefitting 940 factories. ISI is a technical training and
advisory service center.
Industrial Congestion in Bangkok
24.       Industrial employment is presently concentrated in small cottage
type enterprises and in medium-to-large scale firms employing more than 100
workers. At the end of 1976, the industrial sector employed over 1.5 million
persons, or 8% of a total labor force estimated at about 18 million. Of a
total of about 45,000 registered factories (December 1975) as many as 12,000
are located in the Bangkok area. The provinces predominate in consumer goods
industries, such as, foods, beverages, tobacco and textiles (including



- 8 -
wearing apparel) but other manufacturing industries remain heavily concen-
trated in Bangkok. The manufacturing industries in the Bangkok area employ
almost a million people (5% of the total labor force and 60% of the manufac-
turing work force), generate about 80% of the total value added in manufac-
turing and have, since 1970, registered an annual growth rate of 18% at
current prices. Most industries, and especially the larger modern plants
have gravitated to Bangkok because of market concentration, proximity
to the government administrative center, superior infrastructure, and easy
access to suppliers and customers via the port, air and railway facilities.
At the same time, the urban center of Bangkok manifests the worst ills of
congestion, such as, traffic paralysis, communication and utility breakdowns,
pollution and inadequate and unsanitary housing. This situation will become
worse during 1977-81, when industrial growth is forecast at over 9.4% per
annum and most new manufacturing facilities are expected to continue to
gravitate to the Bangkok area. It is estimated, if recent trends continue,
that by 1990, Bangkok's labor force (1.5 million in 1970) would increase to
about 3 million and that Bangkok's population (4.3 million in 1976) would
expand to over 7 million.
Steps Taken by the Government
25.       The government has instituted many remedial measures in associa-
tion with the Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and several bilateral
donors. To divert bulk export traffic from Bangkok, subsidiary ports are
being developed at Phuket and Songkhla and a recently completed inland
waterway study would help upgrade this economical transportation mode. ADB
and Bank financed projects, current and projected, are helping to improve
Bangkok's power and water supply, telecommunications and low income housing.
However, projects requiring heavy capital investments, such as expressway
construction, have been deferred. In regard to Bangkok's heavy industrial
congestion, the government has recognized the need, firstly, to provide
prepared sites and services to attract industry away from the congested
urban center to at least the still thinly populated rural periphery of the
greater Bangkok area and, in a second phase, to establish additional facili-
ties at more distant regional locations which would also help promote area
and regional development. Besides other measures, the Government (a) estab-
lished in 1968 the first industrial estate at Bang Chan (some 30 km east of
Bangkok); (b) began developing a long range national industrial estates plan
(with the assistance in 1969, of a Japanese study team) to accelerate indus-
trial development and a greater spread of industrial activity among less
developed regions; (c) organized the Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
(IEAT) in 1973, as an autonomous business-oriented agency to manage the Bang
Chan estate as well as to plan and execute the national industrial estates
development program; and (d) enacted the Town and Country Planning Act, 1973,
whose zoning regulations are aimed at dispersing industry (together with
residential, commercial and social facilities) to satellite centers removed
from Bangkok's urban core. The Government has recently taken effective
measures (including declaring the Bang Chan-Lat Krabang area as an indus-
trial zone) to enforce zoning regulations in stages. It realizes, however,
that the objectives of the Act cannot be adequately served until old and new
industries are given sufficiently attractive alternative to the sites they
would otherwise prefer within Bangkok.



Industrial Estates Development Program
26.       Thailand's Fourth Plan highlights the need for comprehensive
studies to prepare a definite urban development strategy for planning
urban centers in the four regions of Thailand. As a part of this Plan, IEAT
has proposed a comprehensive national program for establishing some 14
industrial estates of all types (public, private and joint venture) throughout
the country-, with the first priority being given to the greater Bangkok area.
In the last three years, the Bank has closely cooperated with IEAT and UNIDO
to help strengthen IEAT's management and planning capabilities. The Bank has
estimated that, given IEAT's experience and resources, at least six of these
projects may be started-during this period; four estates located within a 50
km radius of Bangkok (Lat Krabang, Nava Nako'rn, Bang Poo and Samut Prakarn
Export Processing Zone) and one estate each in Cholburi and Songkhla. To
implement this First-phase Program, IEAT will need additional financing and
assistance in general management, project execution, operations and marketing.
The proposed project is designed to assist IEAT in meeting these and other
needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
27.       A feasibility study for an industrial estate project at Minburi was
prepared in August 1974 under technical assistance provided by UNDP/ UNIDO.
A Bank mission appraised the project in September/October 1974, but loan
negotiations were postponed when IEAT was not able to acquire the proposed
site at Minburi. Another site, located at Lat Krabang, some 15 km south of
Minburi and about 35 km east of Bangkok, was acquired and the project was
reappraised in November 1976. Negotiations took place in Washington from
July 19 to July 22, 1977. The Thai delegation was led by HE Khun Arun
Panupong, Thailand's Ambassador in Washington, and included Khun Chamroon
Vajarabhaya, Director General, IEAT (the Borrower).
Project Description
28.       The project is part of a long range program to establish industrial
estates and export processing zones (EPZs) designed to provide the needed
sites and services for attracting industry away from the congested core of
Bangkok in a first phase and develop additional facilities at more distant
regional locations in a second phase. The proposed project consists of
(a) development of the raw land at Lat Krabang (162 ha) into serviced indus-
trial sites suitable for some 120 owner-built small- to medium-scale factories;
(b) construction of standard factory buildings for rental to between 20 and
30 small- and medium-scale industries; and, (c) establishment of an EPZ on 20
ha of the project-land. Technical assistance will be provided to 'assist IEAT
in general management, project execution,-operations and marketing and in
planning future projects. Additionally, a cooperative arrangement with
UNIDO is being concluded to provide further technical assistance. Details
are given in the report entitled "Thailand - Appraisal of the Minburi (Lat
Krabang) Industrial Estate Project (No. 1530-TH, dated September 16, 1977)",



- 10 -
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III
incorporates key dates and the special conditions for the proposed project.
The Project Site
29.       Location and Development.  In October 1976, IEAT purchased the
project site for $1.25 million, a price which is reasonable and competitive
with other locations in the greater Bangkok area. The site (ex paddy land)
will be made suitable for industrial use through the application of land fill
and a system of dikes, surface water drainage channels and pumping stations
in accordance with the established practice in Thailand. Standard macadamized
roads of about 10 km, averaging 8.5 meters wide, will be laid to provide access
to factory plots. Two main highways lead to the city of Bangkok and the
Pharakhanong-Lat Krabang road provides the shortest route to the Bangkok
port. Resurfacing of about 10 km of this road is needed, and the Government
would ensure its completion by end-1978 (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
30.       Power, Water and Telephones.  Power requirements are estimated at
25 MW at full occupancy and will be drawn from the 22 KV high tension trans-
mission line running close to the Estate. The Metropolitan Electricity
Authority (MEA) has installed a 25 MW transformer substation about 5 km west
of project site which will connect with an internal overhead distribution
network for power and street lighting. The power supply including an internal
distribution network will be set up by MEA in accordance with the construction
schedule. Its cost will be advanced by IEAT but would be repaid by MEA in
the early 1980s (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). A central
liquid waste treatment plant would handle all normal industrial and sanitary
waste effluents. Aggressive wastes such as acid, alkali, oils or solvents
will be pretreated at each factory source before the effluent enters the
sewage system leading to the central waste treatment plant. Rules and regu-
lations governing design criteria and standards for pretreatment facilities
to control gaseous and liquid pollution of individual enterprises and compre-
hensive guidelines on industry suitability, factory building design standards,
and estate operations will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by June 30,
1978 for review and approval. This will be the Government's first atttempt to
control industrial pollution and should serve as a model for the future
(Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Water supply of a
maximum of 2.6 million gallons per day would be drawn from 4 deep wells to be
dug on the site with two ground level reservoirs and two elevated storage
tanks and necessary main lines and distribution pipes, including fire hydrants.
At full occupancy the estate and its occupants would need as many as 500
telephone lines and the Government and the Telephone Organization of Thailand
(TOT) have agreed to IEAT utilizing a 36 circuit radio telephone system
connected to an automatic branch exchange (with a minimum of 200 lines) and
to install 120 telephone extensions by end December 1978 and the remaining
extensions as and when they are required (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).



- 11 -
31.       Building Construction.   Prospective estate tenants will have the
option of building their own factories, renting IEAT's standard factory
buildings, or negotiating with IEAT to build factories to their specific
needs under long-term lease or hire-purchase agreements. The project also
includes preconstructed standard factory buildings to be rented to small-
and medium-scale enterprises. Some 20 ha will be delineated as an Export
Processing Zone including facilities for customs control. An administration
building (about 1000 sq m) and maintenance stores and workshop (about 500 sq
m) are also planned. Some 12-15 housing units totalling about 2500 sq m will
be constructed to accommodate essential administrative personnel. In all,
112 ha are earmarked for industrial plots, and the rest for utilities,
housing, administrative and other purposes.
Engineering/Architectural Services and Technical Assistance
32.       A firm has been engaged to prepare detailed engineering design and
specifications for all civil works. It will also prepare tenders, evaluate
bids and supervise civil works contractors (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The allocation of Bank loan funds for techncal assistance under
the project is intended to cover the costs of specialized short term consultants,
as needed, and training fellowships for IEAT's key personnel. Additional
technical assistance is planned through a cooperative arrangement being
concluded between UNIDO and IEAT under which UNIDO will fund a 4 man advisory
staff of consultants to be attached to IEAT-for about 2 years. Selection of
these consultants would be made in consultation with the Bank. The advisory
team will comprise: (i) two advisors with complementary experience in
project analysis, design and management of industrial estates and EPZs; (ii)
an industrial economist with experience in analyzing the locational, sectoral
and marketing aspects of new estate project development; and (iii) an
environmental control specialist.
Pro ject Management
33.       IEAT will appoint by December 1977, in consultation with the Bank,
a Project Manager and an Advisor who will be responsible for project
execution on a full time basis. The project manager will be a senior level
employee with executive level experience and qualifications in public/private
sector construction projects. The advisor will be a qualified civil
engineer, who will function under the Project Manager, as a planning and
development expert and liase directly with the Engineering/Architectural
contractor and civil works contractors during project execution (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
34.       Land survey and engineering design began in January 1977.    Estate
construction is planned in two phases, each phase developing about half the
total area. Phase I is scheduled for completion in 1979 and the Phase II by
end 1980. The second phase construction work could be advanced should the
occupancy rate be faster than expected. Detailed scheduling, in consultation
with other agencies, namely, TOT, IIEA, etc., will be prepared as part of the
engineering design work which began in June 1977. Dike construction began in
Miay 1977 but the bulk of the civil works will be initiated in the last
quarter of calender 1977 and the first quarter of 1978.



- 12 -
Low Income Housing
35.       The Bang Chan estate now has 26 industries employing a work force
of 1,800 and another 12 industries are in the process of being set up. With
the proposed industrial estate at Lat Krabang, the greatly expanded industrial
community in the Minburi area would justify establishment of a major workers'
housing colony; particularly since at full occupancy, the Lat Krabang Estate
would employ about 10-12,000 workers drawn mainly from Bangkok and adjacent
rural areas. The government recognizes that unless housing is provided for a
major portion of this labor force in the vicinity of the Estate, the proposed
project could suffer from scarcity of labor due to transportation difficulties
and the mushrooming of slums which, in turn, would adversely affect the
environment and discourage sale and lease of estate facilities. The govern-
ment has agreed to the National Housing Authority (NHA) planning and construc-
ting, on a priority basis, a low income housing colony at Huamak, about 6 km
from Lat Krabang, to serve the estates at Bang Chan and Lat Krabang (Section
3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Management and Organization
36.       IEAT.   The project will be carried out by IEAT, which is an autono-
mous, statutory corporation established in 1972 when a nucleus staff was
formed. Later, the Bang Chan estate was turned over to IEAT by the Department
of Industrial Works. A governing board, comprising a chairman (currently,
the Director-General of the Department of Industrial Promotion, Ministry of
Industry) and ten members representing government departments, private
industry and banking is responsible for policy and overall supervision while
the operating management is the responsibility of the Director-General, who
is also an ex-officio member of the Board. The present Director General is
an experienced, competent and resourceful chief exexutive who, until recently
was the Director General of the Telephone Organization of Thailand.
37.       Functions.   IEAT is responsible for planning and development of all
government-sponsored industrial estates and export processing zones throughout
Thailand. In addition, it is empowered to undertake feasibility studies,
acquire and develop land, invest in infrastructure and factory buildings and
sell or lease the developed land and buildings. IEAT monitors the factories
under it's jurisdiction and provides guidance to firms in building design and
various aspects of industrial operations including pollution control. To
further the national objective of employment growth, IEAT gives priority for
estate occupancy to labor intensive industries. In addition to operating
Thailand's first industrial estate at Bang Chan and implementing the Lat
Krabang Project, IEAT is currently engaged in formulating a comprehensive
national program to establish, over the next five to ten years, some 14 more
industrial estates dispersed throughout the country. IEAT is also actively
involved with other groups in a broad range of industrial estate activities;
it has completed a prefeasibility study of a joint venture with private
interests at Bang Poo (1,300 ha); negotiated a minority stock interest in a



- 13 -
privately financed new-town project at Nava Nakorn and is providing technical
assistance for the project's industrial estate component; assisted in a
prefeasibility study of a proposed agro-industrial estate at Cholburi;    and
has prepared a prefeasibility study for an industrial estate at Songkhla in
the South which is being considered for financing by the Asian Development
Bank.
38.       Organization.   In July 1976, IEAT was reorganized under the Office
of the Director-General into four functional departments, each headed by a
Director, namely: (a) Technical and Projects Department (Programming and
Planning), (b) Operations Department (Construction and Maintenance of
Estates), (c) Finance Department, and (d) Administration Department. The
Technical and Projects Department has a marketing section responsible for
sales, leasing and promotion. As these functions would become more complex
in the future, technical assistance and training will be provided under the
project to enhance IEAT's marketing capabilities. IEAT can offer more attrac-
tive compensation than the regular civil service and has been able to
attract high calibre staff.
Cost Estimate
39.       The total cost of the project is estimated at nearly $10.0 million
with a foreign exchange component of about $4.6 million. Just prior to loan
negotiations in July 1977, up-to-date cost estimates were prepared by the
consultants, who had been awarded the engineering/architectural contract.
Physical contingencies are assumed to be 10% of base cost (not including the
cost of land).  Price contingencies averaging 8% per annum were derived by
applying a 9% annual rate of escalation for civil works and 7.5% for equipment
during 1977-79, declining to 8% and 7% in 1980, respectively. The details are
summarized in the table below:
Project Item                           Local     Foreign      Total     % of
-------- (US$ million) ------   Total
A. Land Acquisition                    1.25            -       1.25     15.4
B. Land Development &                  2.13         2.53       4.66     57.5
Site Equipment
C.  Buildings                          0.87         0.93       1.80     22.2
D.  Engineering/Architectural          0.20        0.10        0.30      3.7
Services
E.  Technical Assistance & Training    0.03        0.07        0.10      1.2
Base Cost                        4.48        3.63        8.11    100.0
F. Contingencies:
Physical                         0.33        0.36        0.69      8.4
Price                            0.52        0.59        1.11     13.7
Total Project Cost                 5.33        4.58        9.91    122.1



- 14 -
Financing Plan
40.      Financing for the project would consist of a Government contribution
of about $3.9 million equivalent to IEAT as equity, about $1.3 million
internally generated funds from the sale and lease of industrial sites, and
a proposed Bank loan of $4.75 million. Part of the Government's equity
investment ($1.25 million) covered the purchase of land and the rest is
earmarked for land development expenditures. Internal cash generation will
be reserved for the project and only surpluses beyond project requirements
will be allocated to other uses. The Government would provide any addi-
tional funds required to complete the project (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Details of the
Financing Plan are:
$ Million    % of Total
Government contribution             $3.87         39.1
Internal cash generation             1.29         12.9
Bank loan                            4.75         48.0
Total                        $9.91        100.0
IEAT's Current Financial Situation
41.       When IEAT took over the Bang Chan estate in 1973, it acquired
assets (mostly fixed) with a book value of Baht 28.5 million, of which
Baht 16.6 million was booked as equity and Baht 11.9 million as long term
debt (Bang Chang's fixed assets have a current market value estimated at
over Baht 200 million). The operations of this estate are only marginally
profitable as all of its land had been leased by the previous owner, the
Department of Industrial Works, at rates which were uneconomical and below
market prices. Revenues from the operations of the Bang Chan estate, which
are the principal source of IEAT's operating income, have covered only 6.5%
of IEAT's central office costs. On a consolidated basis, IEAT has incurred
operating deficits amounting to Baht 1.7 million in FY74, Baht 2.8 million
in FY75 and Baht 3.7 million in FY76. IEAT's investment capital needs and
most of the operating expenses, therefore, have been met through Government
contributions which totalled Baht 71 million by end-1976, and this situation
will continue until IEAT has developed additional sources of income through
the operation of the Lat Krabang estate. The government accepts the under-
writing of IEAT's capital investment and operating expense requirements as
a necessary contribution of "seed capital" until the institution achieves
profitable operations and self sustained growth in the early 1980s. The
principal component in IEAT's expenses is the cost of its staff which
increased from Baht 1.5 million in FY74 to Baht 3.9 million in FY76; this
reflects a rapid build-up of staff strength from (61 to 95) to cater to
IEAT's planned national program of industrial estate development, including
the proposed establishment of an Industrial Estate at Minburi in 1975. In
the event, IEAT's program was seriously delayed by land purchase problems and
IEAT's charges for its services have not covered costs. IEAT is currently
exploring ways to improve its financial position by increasing lease rates
and service charges at Bang Chan and negotiating sale of land to occupants,



- 15 -
possibly at a discount, to make the transaction attractive. In addition, IEAT
is reviewing its staff requirements to restrict additional hirings in 1977 by
utilizing existing staff for the execution and management of the Lat Krabang
estate. In the future, it is also planned to charge economical prices for
IEATs technical assistance services to outside organizations.
42.       IEAT has agreed to prepare, in consultation with the Bank and by
December 31, 1977, a Plan of Action to economise on the costs of headquarters
personnel and to improve operating revenues. However, implementation of the
Plan in respect of Bang Chan is likely to be slow since the present occupants
of the estate have binding lease agreements which can only be renegotiated by
mutual consent. Moreover, the Bang Chan estate is located on Crown property,
and there are legal uncertainties regarding IEAT's right to sell the land to
the present occupants. In view of these difficulties, the potential favorable
impact of the Plan has been incorporated into the analysis of IEAT's financial
prospects only to the extent of assuming reasonable reductions in personnel
and increases in service charges at Bang Chan (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Future Prosepcts - Overall IEAT Operations
43.       Despite the constraints discussed in the preceding paragraph,
IEAT's overall financial situation should improve considerably in the future.
Under the Lat Krabang Project, IEAT's marketing and sales capability would be
strengthened and sale and lease of its land and factories (para. 48) would be
at market prices competitive with alternative sites in the Bangkok area
(including the two private estates at Nava Nakorn and Bang Poo) and which
would provide an adequate financial return on project funds invested. During
FY79-83, when close to 50% of industrial sites at Lat Krabang will be sold
and the balance leased, earnings from the project would generate operating
surpluses of Baht 3.7 million in each of FY79 and FY80, and the surplus is
projected to increase to Baht 20 million in FY82. In terms of the consoli-
dated position of IEAT as a whole, the cumulative deficit of IEAT will be
completely offset by 1982; thereafter, surpluses would begin to accumulate
reaching Baht 17.6 million in FY83, Baht 31 million in FY84 and Baht 44
million in FY85. The financial return on the investment at Lat Krabang is
projected at 11.5%, in constant terms.
44.       On a consolidated basis, the present debt/equity ratio of IEAT is
13:87 in 1977 and is expected to be 51:49 in 1980 but would improve thereafter.
In 1980, the current ratio is estimated at about 7 rising to over 10 thereafter.
Since the earned surpluses will be reinvested, the ratio will, in fact, be
lower. IEAT has agreed that to strengthen its financial structure and assure
the timely discharge of its debt service obligations during the period 1982
through 1997, IEAT will undertake whatever action is necessary to maintain
satisfactory financial ratios in respect of its liquidity, debt/equity
and debt service coverage. It is expected that IEAT would be able to maintain
a liquidity of at least 1.25:1, a debt equity ratio of no higher than 65:35
and a minimum debt service coverage of 1.5:1 during this period. IEAT will
also constantly monitor costs with a view to adjusting prices periodically,
in consultation with the Bank, to ensure a financial return of no less than
10% in real terms on IEAT's investment in Lat Krabang (Sections 5.04 and
5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Market and Land Prices
45.       BOI statistics indicate that 80% of projects with foreign partici-
pation and 50% with local capital are planned to be located in the greater
Bangkok area. Assuming that 65% of all new manufacturing investment were
to be located in the greater Bangkok area, and on the basis of historic capital/
land ratios (BOI records), there would be generated an effective demand for
industrial sites of 890 hectares during the project execution period, 19 77-81.
Against this demand the Lat Krabang site would have in all 112 ha of net
leasable land. Its projected sale/lease prices would be competitive with
other off estate alternatives and are expected to be particularly attractive
compared to those set for the two privately sponsored industrial estates at
Nava Nakorn and Bang Poo (also in the Bangkok area), which together will
offer 273 ha of net leasable land. The Lat Krabang estate, therefore, should
face little difficulty in disposing of the developed sites. Supporting this
forecast, in June 1977, about 19 companies had already expressed interest in
acquiring sites in Lat Krabang. The occupancy pattern is likely to favor
medium-scale, relatively clean factories employing up to 150 workers on
average and engaged in light manufacturing activities. IEAT intends both to
sell and lease the serviced industrial sites at the buyers' option, and lease
space in pre-constructed standard factory buildings. In consultation with
the Bank and by June 30, 1978, IEAT will prepare standard application forms
and standard agreements for sale or lease of land and industrial buildings.
IEAT would also annually review with the Bank and revise, if necessary, the
prices and other terms and conditions for such sale or lease (Sections 4.04
and 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       IEAT's current assessment is that it should seek a price of $7.81
per square meter of land for cash sales and $9.78 per square meter for
deferred payment sales (in current 1979 terms) requiring a down payment of
20% of the sale price followed by four equal annual payments with interest at
12% on the outstanding balance imputed in the contract price. On leased
land, annual rates would be $0.78 per square meter in current 1979 terms.
Yearly leases for rented factory space would be at rentals of $18.50 per
square meter in current 1980 terms when occupancy is expected to begin.
The above prices and rentals are assumed to increase by 10% annually.
Procurement
47.       All civil works, materials and equipment will be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For
the engineering/architectural services contract, 9 firms had submitted
competitive proposals to IEAT in March 1977. Minor items, costing less than
$15,000 and limited in aggregate to a total of $150,000 would be purchased
through normal government procurement procedures, which ensure adequate
competition. In evaluating equipment and material bids, a preference margin
of 15%, or the prevailing customs duty if less, would be extended to local
manufacturers.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made for 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment, vehicles and
materials; 100% of ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally, 65% of
imported, locally procured items; 38% of civil works expenditures; and 100%
of the total costs of consultants' services, technical assistance and overseas
training.



- 17 -
Benefits
49.       It is estimated that the project would provide sites and services
for a total investment of about $150 million in productive facilities,
generating gross output of some $200 million and added value of $60 million
per annum. Besides contributing to increased export earnings, it will
generate about 12,000 permanent factory jobs and, between 1977 and 1981,
about 1,500 temporary construction jobs. In the absence of the stimulus
and advantages of an industrial estate, such a growth process and employ-
ment generation would take much longer. (In 1973, a market survey in Jakarta
concluded that, on average, developed estate land ready for construction
reduces the time by 1 to 2 years between approval of a factory investment by
a firm and the start-up of operations; a similar pattern is expected in
Thailand.) Moreover, besides the cost of infrastructure being considerably
higher if the factories were to be built individually on dispersed sites,
there are other local impediments which seriously retard industrial develop-
ment in Thailand, namely, inadequate or non-existent land ownership records,
obscure rules concerneng land use, arbitrary time limits on tenure, inordi-
nate bureaucratic delays in processing land purchase agreements and applica-
tions power, water and telephone services and problems of squatters or
submarginal farmers.
50.       The project will contribute to the planned location of industry
away from the congested core of Bangkok, control industrial pollution and
help foster modern concepts, appropriate to Thailand, of plant and process
engineering and labor intensive operating techniques. The existing estate at
Bang Chan, together with this project, would have a "growth pole" effect, and
the Government has assured that NHA would establish workers' housing project
and other social infrastructure in the area. Evenutally, this could develop
into a satellite town complete with all social amenities needed to enhance
the quality of life for an estimated local population of up to 100,000 in the
1980s.
51.       The environment of an industrial estate is a particularly effective
matrix in which to channel assistance to all types of industries, particularly
small enterprises employing 10 to 50 persons. In an industrial estate where
factory space and utilities are provided, expert advice on factory layout,
machinery, operation and maintenance can be rapidly implemented and effec-
tively supervised. IEAT intends to cooperate closely with SIFO and ISI
(para. 25) in facilitating credit, management and technical assistance
offered by these institutions and with IFCT, which is represented on IEAT's
Board of Directors. IEAT's own gains in management and technical experience
in executing this project would enable additional needed projects to be
implemented more rapidly and the beneficial impact on the greater Bangkok
area will become increasingly apparent over time.
Risks
52.       Based on the planned construction schedule and estimated prices for
land sales and factory rentals and rates of occupancy, the financial return
in real terms over 25 years is about 11.5%. The return could drop to about
8% if investment and therefore occupancy were to lag leading to a delay in



- 18 -
construction completion by 1 year and full occupancy by 2 years, but even at
this level the project is justified because of its pioneer role in demonstra-
ting the social development and employment creation that can be triggered
through planned industrial development.
Environment
53.      The project, besides easing Bangkok's conjestion, would be the
Government's first attempt in Thailand to control industrial pollution and
is expected to serve as a model for the future.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between IEAT and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Agree-
ments conform to the normal pattern for loans for industry projects. The
special conditions pertaining to this project are listed in Annex III.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President



ANNE( I
Page 1 of 3 pages
TABLE 3A
THAILAND            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                  THAILAND                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      5T4.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.1                      19GO       1970   ESTIMATE          PHILIPPINES    KOREA REP.OF JAPAN **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    100.0 *    210.0 *   380.0 A*            230.0 *    280.0 *    2630.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           26.6       36.3      43.0 /a             36.9       32.2       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY                                                '
PER SQUARE KM.                       52.0       71.0      84.o 4a            123.0      327.0       280.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       212.0     263.0      298.0 /a           375.0      1371.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         47.1       44.3      37.6               44.2        35.0        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          19.8       13.7       9.1                13.2       11.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..      80.0       68.0               80.0        60.0  A     13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.0      55.5       58.0               55.6        65.0        71.
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .        3.2       3.i                 3.3        2.6         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.1       2.6                3.0         2.3         1.0
URBAN                                 5.2        4.9       5.1                4.0         6.4         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          12.7       15.0       16.5          ,    31.8       41.2        84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.0      45.1         *-               45.6        42.1        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.0      51.B         .,               51.6        54.5        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.0        3.1        ..                 2.8        3.4         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9         ..                0.9         0.8        0.5
ECONOMIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9        1.1         .                 1.5         1.4        0.6
FAMAILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     470.0     2060.0              354.0      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..       10.0      26.6                2.0        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13700.0 A16700.0 A 17700.0              12300.0    10200.0 A   53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         82.0       79.0      76.0                55.0o A    SO:.5       19.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7. ..                 .0                7.0        4.5         1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            21.8 /C    22.0 /c                                  17 14.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            50.9  r    51 1         ,                  , ,      44.5        37.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.2 /      5.6 7C     ..                 .,         7.1         8.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            14.9 E    1.435 7      . .                 . .      17.7        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                 ..        28.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                 ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PDLU,ATION PER PHYSICIAN                 *-    7974.0     6750.0/a                ..     2180.0S-     880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             .    65u .0     4330.0                  .      2170.0 C     240.0
POPU.AT ION PER hOSPITAL BED         1340. 0     890.0     770.0               850.0     1900.0        80 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I% OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0      103.0      107.0              100.0       103.0      106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              47.0       52.0      56.0   IC           45.0       65.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       17.0 /d                       22 .0       19.0       45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                9.0          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         ,.      81.0       83.0 L            113.0       104.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      7.0       16.0      19.0               49-0        41.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      12.0                10.0       12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     19.0       14.0 /e   13.0 1de             6.o A      16.0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%X                   *       79.0       82.0                 *         87.0       99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                2.1         2.7         1.0
OCLUPIED ^WELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        ,,         .          ..               76.0       80 OLA       5.O
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL OWELLINGS)                              ,       63. 0/dA.f          23.0       50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO E,ECTRICITI (%)                     ..         ..      13.0d g              7.o       30 0
CONSU APT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0      78.0       76 0               45.0       126.0      551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0       5.0        2 /d              8.0         2 0       84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/,'R PER CAP)          23.0      124.0      154.0              235.0       307.0     3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/Yr PER CAP)                0.7       1.0        1.4                2.0         3.5        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



a             WA)
naav    n0  V   a.          . -- a--          a           aW   *a       -.  a     -  a
tat. a                       ann                                           V
Lana     -                    Ca      -     an -c a--..  I-  V  --  m  0
-         ,.-.a;2---L-            1            Va-nW  a.
amnaCaj.W       a-mm      a-.-  a     a. Lana-non.    -a.       an  a-  n.a      ua a.0  a  ma
A      ma              -        n                            .noa  aga5.       .-    -               -e       2                .ZV     a
a                                                       am  am  I-mn-a  a  a,         .                      m   an                        ma
a                               a-Ia ).a-    .a - a -   a,-                    am        -,  I -    a    oa*        'at --
2                  a    -           AJ .a.          anna    a aa     .-               51        -    ' 0 A     t..om dam  -ma Ia  .a  A  a  a aaWa  maa V  CIaO - a ma  '   .. .  om uaaj
Aaaaamao:tmstm at                        a-.am                               na-u
;iii:           a                5V:ZuZ        a,z-h..            IVO!Vam  asaa-z!ua
.0 -maAain t      ma             -a            mmmcm
na-n      na      -               W  WV    a as:1-!saIii     a, V
n2                                           taa    g  ma t             an V                       C
na         -        c              a-.z a-   ja-ona    nWnOaWm a          flu an  Wa   -  an       an V a at    a    ata ama-Lan
tamaoA                                                         aa        a&
a-             Uoa  a-5          ga an                        1    -                          a-a a
no       a                  n--n                                       satmaa                                     5a
a                 A    A       -               Va-Aum                                                                                          -
nVaW                     a-             amman a- gj-                        --ama  am
a                  a an                        a;aa                 SSnlaaaa
.aaaW                                       8ua-ma                        am
ga a a  WOV2 ma *-8 14
a a am aaam maaam "Jat a- at, a La a
Va-in   .-a m   tan-                   og a, On   an VN an A I'ampn  a  Am    AtauL  at -2.a-    -  I-
-a        a                       aana.n    manWam                 1nW       am Aanm a.  A  a  -  .oAa-.a.V  wOn,  S-a  jaasa1  a    a
a   am                            .-m Ca,    - oaaa- a..tO -             Aaaaaa Am
a,  a, A                                    a-am     a a-mm" a                                      OW
-   -.                             uaa-WL                      a   nM     am          j     amVa
-Va   -   -                             -au"nm    arztoi   naaaa                 ;tl1         mm                  a      aol ml
-a                 a   a                       n:qam                 mAO"                3           t -nsW2                          'On I.  2na-aa
.-; -                  I   A    -     a,                      ImaW a-S-S
a a a              -        ml                                  aa  Wa
aeams               mm      a      a   ma                                   A at
nnmat..taa                                                                                   It
.j     a      V                                                                 b'    On-ma                        a
-                                 am.ana                   ----             ada  mm    -           aaaVn
a-Iaanataao $.aag.-a..-on.-..          a a   uam.,-.naam        a-AoOSD-            aa,
m.0                                                        -              a
a.  a-a              mamma g.n   a    a nmoAoa -ma     e)aao    ama----
a   ni                            a ananmama.n.uat      -a  .aa   a         a   ama  a     man-n
a   a     a                       aaaafluflaa aaa-Immaminaa                  aOa        a   a--a    4     mm. a a,    am      W   -
ma2a                                  3                                   iP    0   naman
aWAm    a                &aa"             a Wan  *.aa    an, a     -a-man             am
Vaa         - ao     aaa         10 pmA  a  Va  a   -In    nV    ma           ma a     a
aa.Aa--> aa.a.-nml    Wm V             00 LdaOoaOWV      at-                 V             a
a                                               m-d1ao    atnaam                             -                     -;mnm-         a-mm
a) ow  am a adla       U-.      ad     an                        a-mA',                   I    VaWa
OAo       V                                  1       2                        oaana a Q---J        daamam                      aS
ao  a                               moanaa      a        a       m        ma- -mammam                      -           WaW   I        j
a-                            V a amu5 na.1,,.-, at-nnamaca.am0                a    - *       -50.               I- AW    a
a   a                             .aaa.adaa     -   aatm   nmmta -         ad-a   ann                                 am   nL    -V  a
LIaAnaWO-a. al          .1W  am -P       a       -W              moamo                  at   .Z
aI       -                      ma    a a mona     Vans-n.m.. ma..
-                                ag    - ama     a-     mWO04W          a   --a    SS 8t*   Atmaaan             V     A   m
- -    -      -a aaa       l-anl        0.-WC  0        'a   mom--alan                      2 05  aam  A  a  no Vaaa  a-S..aP  On.  a -a
aS.adammnmnV0       00      Vm  a.m    -at     ma ,-na mama  a   ma-a"                 a   a   aS
nAn   a   a'    a                       a..1  ag  aaaa    a a-mm        Aa      5 -g      a **a-                          au a-.    a
a   am-   a                         aaam)aa.-                   a        m adA p am.- 5   a an                          aa  a.
a,-  a,                       a       ma aama g ma ama                 ' ' 'O      - oaan     aman  aa                    S  a-i
am-   A 5-mam    -0 a, aaa     a 3mahlaa                                 a   a4a.
a-   - Il amna--dafl mm  m ama          nIL           u1gaaa                          Lia1ma
a--      a       a-              a1         amama     naa    n     ma   So                 4      anVdW                        m
1                        e                   1
AoaaoAa    maaaaa   a   ama  a     WVa             u "      am  mum        J   nm-nAW-
51  a.-WaV.-..ma 0 minIm t m la    *,  am aa - a - -a       daVAaa
a   a                                    Am  n-w  a                 am   ..aaaaAam..4m-Ima  duo.    amnana    no-         ma tao
a                          a,           maaaaaawaaa                 aaa  a-man o ma-Am        Pna-m-aam
a-   at    a              a a.-a,o                :ya::     p: t,aAm nga:nra            <na      ma      n - anamAaA    
3m  m>Aaaau    a aOn   a        u81 aaa                   almn"maaa   a     I   ma-nan
-                       naamn-.-IAd,aa     -                 3m&    Aganaaa     manan-ma
-m  -     a                        g..-I,-.ga umam  - maa I m    uLAmom      a,-       a                         n.j  - nmana-nao
-                       a                   &
ag  a a
via   a a
a a a              8
A    a    an   a a
0-  V  a            -                                                                                  a
V    I ama   am- an                          a
A  man   a-  ala  --                    a                                a                                  a   --a        a       a
a-  a--                         I              a          a    - aa        a   a am           ag  a5         a aua   -
a   a     oaA   -  a            13   .          a   a        - a    a, mm  a    m          - 5 a aa    na     tI  n atama      a
a o at ala! a a aa -a - ma a a - a a II a
V--i-n--I  aaa,                           --    m           a-Va    a                                                         -a
a--a a,  t2e aamma-a Va
a--     a,   in-A       A               o     ama       a           to  ma     -a       II.                                g-5-     a
Sn                      - Voamaann                        -a-      - - mA a,
a                  a                                                --   -                       -  -            --     -  - ad tCa   Aa
a   a nm-a -a    a  a ASj               I      .-2 us        .-. a   a           V-u     .no-.na     ;&ms               waanaaa          a   a
C       An A     A -a  at   Al Al           -     a- oA         A a     2  oh   amattgaW2            .a                -                    -     -
-              a-       a      -     a     - m  mama     ma. a ma          a      an  a.    .-a a WaW a-    -a    A     a
t  m     -Va Va    mm                    -    n-mao     a    aa      at        an,       a     -a      -a   a -       0t - a a        p.1  -    -
an                              a    a    a A     Aa  no         no                    a an  La         m            13
a An -                                            a.    A   mm      na  m--j 'ta      t . a,, ag        a             5-n   *a-5t5
A        a3                                                  m   a        a-mm            a a a    -            h  a      o - mWa,anA          a
a-   a-,t 'NVV  A                                    -    a-a     1.0mm-    am     oanaa-a-n                 3a     uaa     tan.    ma   )     a a
a   a                                                                                                           S
.a   .-     .           anmcV                       a     a    a   an     aa  amnaaaaa          a    ka
man    a    aa       a-                   aao  La    -    a       aaa       -n-I      m a,  a    a-at A   a   a     na    V aa-a,a             ma-
m Alan a ma -a, a . nan so a a ny3nn m A .0 n.j am law a a- a a-a am
a   a   maa      anm      a    a                  a-        a    a               5       go    an  ma   an. t    a aa         - aa    a     a   A     a
a-.  a    a a-   a-a                                            a a     A,paa
55                     Van               a             a am  ama a    - at    ma-a  -a-na           a->5        -a   t    aa
La -a- Va a. - -"a am a n aaaac a a
a-nAaamunaa             a"     aa                a a a-     a a a        aaa a a a mO aa g A-n a        I na    a ata a                             n
-  -    a                    -                                                   a-         am  -      a a ant nta
AA - -V a a a ta-a a,- -a a a on V-ma-mo ma1.Lmaat 1-a
ann    -    laW  aao  a   -              -t    na        a m     A515-am       .0mm1 a an- m     a-Ia    -   am     at  ama lam     up   a
-aa   am  ama   aaa     am                pan  at    n.a - a-a          a a a-   an      a   a a .0mm  a no  an.    an a--...nga    a
AmA  a  n a -"a   an                                   N    a-ma         ma          a-  na-a 5.5  a  n                                .1W
-Isa        ,a          a a-s        - ma   -      ma   a    a ma         a-
-a  -n                                                             3a           5          3m- P        an    a   an SAm
a APO. -a aaa 3 ama n V a aaaa - aO ta m a a-n aa a - AAma .1
a,nA a -t main at -out 0znl a a.. -a aunaa -a
na.-aa-a in... -- a  a-a
a nAm    am  nm         a aa                ma    at    ma  a a            an  anaI        g  a.  ;lanm        A    a   00    - a
aa        ani aca                a                S       -a-    a      onnVoaaa a
aa  aa                              ma.A  ma    a   a -     II52PA       aaa   paap   A a  man  "ama   -      a mm mat ama    C
a-  a-In                            a a a-      am-   -                   -a      - a pa   nat a - a 'a       an     amdao    a-
ma-a am anm a-a aa -- a an An -ma ta-a ma, ama-an a m.-ooao a- am
an          V          an.j"            a a am    a   ap   maAa   nA     n-a a-.- ma -an      a     to
-a-a,-    a    a"          In                an--a      -ala          -n  a.u1ttam On  -  -an"  n-n  -  -anna a  na-
an., a-a a-an a n-:I -a aa
m-aA  mm    a   t        "a, -at   a-  ama   a m a     -an- a    a a     - ma--an-a-a
on    a,    no     a,        a,    a-a   a-  2-8   a            1
asa    2     -a         naana-nmn       a-a a) a-a  zttassa             nAAna-t Iuaam-
"-""a I- pan aA aa - ga -3a a a a- --a Va a aa- a-aaac at 2.
A    am  ma  ma-a        a                               no    a     mum-ma-am  a     a     .   a a  a-an  aa jam      a am annA a
a   a-1                                                                    g                     n-a         - mano    a  -a a-
ama .2 at1 -aa na, a--am ma am Pt a a aa a-a a all a a - arm
amAa5       355       aPI-nal    tan-      a2   cm  p a     om  a          -a
--                                    --a.-,     a                 a mama a     aaa   aa    ana    Om5   ag-mn.-- a           mt
aa-3 A, * mom-a -m an, aaAo aLa -aaa,a -Ion-a maamaa.
ann  a     a- a  a a     aaaamaa           a- aa  -   taa   a   a na       a   a,  nAt a aa
ma.                              amaat      m    ,aoa    a-      mA
2)                                                Vanta 0    ma--a-S   -a a      ol   an   a -a      an-a   A  aa   -a
a 0 a aa   an-  na      an--nA an  an  nan. -a--   .-a  A a   a n an-          ajlmA -a-  a-
a an a - man m mtaaan - -an - - a ma na-a- na taa daaLA a Wa a,
a              ma      nnmao.Ama        am    a "a    pa,   ana  -a -   aaaa   a n main a
-l  F           I                        - n                                 ma a a -         j        aL    at a                  2
a,                                       -   mauna   "A  a - aoaN -n-It ma   mm  a na    -ma   aAnna am) 1-na a -   at
a, I nan ,02m in-a amaa- aanaa-. Aa a--I 0 am  a Wmaa-n- ann
a-              I               main    t-aa-        -a    aa;   1-Inam  pamom   aS 'mm      mAI    aamoanaa tas n-      a,
a a a a a a a m ma-nA-n aamaa,aaaa ma a m aniaa a-la A an an- 8m51 -a
-    a nanapa   Aa- aan  aama-m  A   a,anAnnIt         a&-        a.-            Pi
a - V -Iaaaniaa,-Iaa a a na-ala o a Vaa on--a-a aj
an    am-      -a-                      --a                                         Va  aa         aim
 tsa  s- -a      a a     "a-  tan--    at     1-Wa.- nnaaao         a-a    aaaAooaana     nA
7 -m ma pa -m na
a a                                            naj-j-  a.! a- a, t;osasgaaot:a               a V    a   tSlt22mm          592.5n.aAm      -u
I    ton- nap.-' amaam    aatnoan a mo a     a-I      -an            aman    tama    A     a   -am
-    a   a ma.    Va                  1              A0   a   a- AVn "-    a   aaa  an   -mata aa
A--     a I  an-  anam   -1-nan -a-a a,mm   aaa  a--a    a-aaa-S2a--5I     a-  -ti-tam     -a         a'
a-a aaaa olac m VaVa a aa-. amamnat a a am8 anna aanaaW Va a On A 1
-     am-a ma a man   anna,         -           a a 2-In-  -  aV   to mAnman   anama   I   a a - at   -a  tpm
2)1 1 am- an aa a-o a-n aa a-n "a-ada nan a A-a,-oA-I nAoaaao a as. -a a
--               I                 a- - a-.  -  -an  -m  aaaoa ampA    - aaaoaoaommnmn   0 aaaama      -    mm1-np a-A- a> Va - na    a-a
an a "a mA na-V-n nmAaaata,oa-n m 000 -a Va oaaan a- m -Pa aa
m;nn   ]       ann-IA       IA  aunana ann-    a a    C aaa-ana,aam
I                     a an         ma no     -   na-  a"   Au   mamam   -I a ama    Anoa       un  nni mAn    tat
I a a -a -a oaVtaa mnn aan La oman-aama n[vj am-an -a aa
a- moa  mannamn a at-nt            a           anama a     taon--8        oa,aaaa aa- a am  SIn
anj a a a- cnn-aa- a a a-
niH an a n aaam1an-n-aAaOaa a a atAt aaaaoag5 *jaoAA a



ANNEXI
Pa,,3    t 
ECONIIMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NArIONAL INCGQSW  IN 1975                                ANNUAL RATL OF GROWTH)
(7.,, conrant prices)
US $   In.   .            1960-65      1965-70     1970-75
COXY .,t M..rkot Prices             14,595      11,0.0        7 .5         8.-,        6.5
Cross Domestic Investment            3,912       2b.8        14.4         13.5         5.1
Gross Natio...l Sov-gs               3,293       22.6        11.8         11.3          5.7
oretAccoun.t Balanc              -619       -4.2       -27.0          31.0         2.4
Fxports of Goods, NFS                2.860       19.6         9.9          6.2         6.8
Imp-rts of Goods., NS                3,565       24.4        11.3         12.6         3.o
ourEPUT. LABOR FORGE AND
P'RODI'Gri viTO IN 1975
______e__Add__d___              Labor Force-.2            V.A. )er Workrer- -1
ii  Hsi.         7.       mlill-oO           7.         C's                 7
Agri-vlt...         4,559            31.3         13.4             75.7       340                 41
Indostr,            4,442            30.4          1.4              7.9    3.170                386
Services            5.588            38.3          2.9             16.4    1.930                235
1lot.1/Aver-ge   14,589          100.0          17.7           100.0       820                10r,
r.('VP.RNIENT FIKANC1R2
Consolidated Public Sector           Central Go-ernmet
(US$ mIn.)     7. of GD P 7        1F US$ 1reI.)  7.' of GDP
1975        1975 1973-75          1975       1975 1973.75
tirren.t Receipts                             2,263        15.8    16.2         1.992       13.9    14.3
Crre-rExpendlt-res vod Transfers              1,812        12.7    12.1         1.4         12.9    1 2.2
Ga.rrent Darplus                                451         3.1     4.1           152        1.0     2.1
GC,ptI~l Expenditares                           730         5.1     5.1           376        2.6     2 .9
External Assistance (.et)                        68         0.5     0.5             3
MiONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1971    1972   1973    1934    1975
(Billions of Baht ootnt.nding end Period)
Money and Quasi Money                             46.2    53.7    66.6   81.9    98.3   113.4
Bank Gredit to Central Government (net)           13.0    19.7    27.0   29.6    25.7    30.8
Rank Gredit to Private Sector                     27.8    30.8    34.6   49.4    66.6    80.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP                33.9    37.1   40.4    32.8    36.6    38.8
CDP Deflator (19s2 = 100)                        i13.5   111.6  121.8   145.3   172.4   177.3
Annoal percentage changes in-
GDP Deflator                                    -0.6    -1.7    9.2    19. 3   18.7     2.8
Bank Credit to Central Governeent (net)         53.5    51.2   37.4     9.5   -13.2    20.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   21.5    00.7   12.2    42.9    34.9    21.4
BAIANCE (T PAYMENTS                ~1973    1974    19 75  1 976/ _                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973.75)
01$s- MiIon                                                          01 .U$ Mellion ___
Enports of Goods, NFS                          2,085   3,085  252     3.487                    Rice                              320       15.4
Imports of Goods. NFS                          2 2 59  3.2    3.i5    i   ~                    Robber                            218       10.5
Resouce G.p (deficit -      5                            355   -705    -492                    Corn (14.1c)                      Z4S       11.8
In,teres t paynents (netS                          7      36      69    -32                    Tapioca prodocts                  183        8.8
Other Factor Paymets (set)                       .28     - 37    -64                           Tin (Metal)                       12 2       5.9
Wdorhers' R-'iL ta-co                                                                          S.gar                             179        8.1
Net T~~~... fer. 5                 14 ~~24b        82      26                    Kenaf and jots                    42        2.0
Current Bal1nce                                  .))     -90   -61-8   -498                    All other ton-o dities           2772      37.1
Direct Foreign lnvestment (netli                  6 7    1 37    6 5     81                                      Total        2.080      100.0
Net MILT Borrowing                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT, DEGEIBIEB 31. 1975
Disburse.ents                                  265     515    542     559                                                         US$ million
Anor t I ari.n                                 2b2     26 5   3 51    298                    Public Debt, inch. guaranteed            615
Subtota,l                                        3    250     191     261                    Non-Guaranteed erivate Debt              7 36
Capitol Grants                                                                                 Total outstanding & disbursed          1,351
Other Cptl(-et                                   142      66     105     2249
Other CIteers "n1.e. i.            ~51                  1.19      62      47                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 197$
Increa se in Reseres (+)                         11l3    482   -195     13.5                                                            7.
Public Debt, 1mc. guaranteed
Gross Reserves (end year)                      1,295  1,858   1,775                            private                                  2.6
Net Reserves (end year)                        1,082  1,564   1.369   1,484                    No-Guaranteed Pr ivate Debt             12.8
Total p.blic & priv-te non-
Fuels  and  Belated Materials                                                                                                          ISrred  .t1  4
l.ports                                       229     629     684     769gurned                           eb
of which peptroleum                            175    519     578     650                    lBRD/IiDA LENBINr   Jsxte 30. 1.977 (US S  iIOiorLk
Exports                                         18     15      11       10                                                         IBRD    IDA
of which petroleum                              18     15      11       10                   Outstanding 6 Disbursed               345.1  15.s
MTE~~~. OF - E X CI~~~~~~Al IG E                                       U~~ln.isbursed                        39 6.m2  16.5
0O,tstanding 1.cI. Undisbursed        741.3   32.0
ILhaLor~  Jl   1973  US$ 1.00    B 20.1,,  B 1.00 - US $ 0.48
Since Jly 1ti71     USS l.00    r 20.0    B 1.00 -1 US   0.50
/1  At currest market prIces.                          ~/7   Includes short-tom p&1'1h and p i- c       Aplia,l r-d p-rtfolio
/2   Estimated.                                                                in-estment.
7/3  Th.rl fiscal yearn e-ding or Septem,ber 30.                           L8 I1cludes SDR    ioain,Profits          ru1  <   rn,ra-nri
/4  Cstimates for CDP durIn,i fiscal near t were derivd by .dding               -md erers and olso
1/4 of CDI' at calender year t-I to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.        /9   Ratio of debt service to enp-ts of ro-d,       2mmnIc
/5   Includes official and priv-te tr..,sfers.                                 servics.
/-6 Eq.iry capital only.
le Estimate.
L-,-n  ran-    percent



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMIENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31,1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                      Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose       Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans fully disbursed                       374.4       -       -
822-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    Education     15.4       -    10.5
864-TH      1972    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-  37.0       -     9.2
tion of Thailand        cations
870-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    National      28.6       -     4.6
Highways
369-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Education        -    19.5    10.3
379-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -     5.5     0.2
898-TH      1973    State Railway          Railways      15.0       -     0.6
461-TH      1974    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -     7.0     3.6
977-TH      1974    Electricity Genera-    Power         75.0       -    43.0
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH      1974    Industrial Finance     Industry      12.0       -     2.7
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Mletropolitan Water-   Water Supply  55.0       -    37.8
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation    95.0       -    90.7
1198T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rural Devel-
opment      21.0       -    20.2
1199T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Livestock      5.0       -     4.9
1243-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rubber
Replanting  50.0       -    49.6
1253-TH     1976    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-
tion of Thailand         cations     26.0      -    23.2



ANNEX II
Page 2
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                      Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower                Purpose       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1271-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand     Education     31.0     -      30.5
1327-TH     1976    Industrial Finance      Industry      25.0     -      25.0
Corporation of
Thailand
1393-TH     1977    National Agricul-       Agriculture   28.0     -      28.0
tural Extension ja
1468-TH     1977    Kingdom of Thailand /a Irrigation     55.0     -      55.0
1485-TH     1977    Electricity Gene-
rating Authority
of Thailand /a         Power          50.0     -     50.0
Total                                          998.4   32.0    499.6
of which has been repaid                     155.2      -
Total now outstanding                          843.2   32.0
Amount sold /b                    68.5
of which has been repaid        30.3          38.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 805.0   32.0
Total undisbursed                             .485.5   14.1
/a Not yet declared effective.
/b Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31,1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company           Type of Business     Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                0.30      -     0.30
1964   Industrial Finance      Industrial Finance
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)                                  -   0.38     0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group       Cement and Construc-
tion Materials       18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group       Cement and
Construction
Materials            10.00      -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund             Capital Market
Company Limited                                  -   0.30     0.30
1977   United Sugar            Food and Food
Terminal Limited        Processing            2.50   0.20     2.70
Total gross commitments                      31.13   4. 63   35.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      18.90   2.09    20.90
Net held by the Corporation                  12.23   2.54    14. 77



ANNEX II
Page 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(as of June 30, 1977)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Due to initial delays, previously reported, the project is
about one year behind schedule. About half of the total civil works
($24.0 million) have been awarded to contractors and construction is
progressing well. Bid packages amounting to $7.5 million are in the process
of being awarded. The specialist services program under the project is
nearly completed. Recommendations of consultants-for improvement of teaching,
research and extension activities have been well received and are now being
implemented by the university staff. With help of consultants, major revisions
on the curricula of the different faculties of the University are being
prepared. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 33%, which
the Government will finance. Disbursements are expected to increase by 75%
by the end of 1977.
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is about two years behind schedule because of initial
delays in procurement. Procurement action on all Bank-financed items is now
substantially complete and the loan amount has been committed. Over 50% of the
local telephone network expansion under the project is complete and the balance
will be completed by March 1978, 18 months behind schedule. However, because
of delays in procurement of the microwave systems under a bilateral loan, the
long-distance network expansion under the project will be completed only in
December 1978, two years behind schedule. About $35 million is expected to
be disbursed from the loan by the current Closing Date, which is being extended.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26. 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial prob-
lems for the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the
contracts provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while
costs of materials, labor, equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly.
Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating the contract prices
with the Government. The other four contracts were terminated by agreement
between the Government and the contractors. In one case, a new contract was
awarded to the third lowest of the original bidders, at a price lower than
was acceptable to the second lowest bidder or to the original contractor. On
the remaining three contracts, new bids were obtained for completing the
works, contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 75%
of the work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for
completing the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be
around $75 million, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government
financing the overruns. In spite of these difficulties the project is likely
to be completed no more than one year behind the original schedule. The
highway maintenance study and feasibility studies for future projects have
been completed, and detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has
been completed.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation remains about 12 months behind schedule,
but past problems concerning weak management, overcommitment of the staff,
lengthy and cumbersome approval procedures, lack of funds, and late recruit-
ment of technical assistance have largely been overcome. The project manage-
ment and procurement procedures have been strengthened considerably through
steps initiated as part of the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1271-TH).
Adequate provisions have been made to meet the expected cost overruns and
noticeable progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical
assistance. About 90% of the total civil works contracts and 60% of the
total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Technical assis-
tance is keeping pace with physical facilities. Project costs are now esti-
mated at $60 million, 50% above the appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is about 90% completed. Until recently, project
construction and disbursements were in line with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 6
In 1976, force account- construction continued satisfactorily but administra-
tive problems caused a delay in the employment of contractors until the 1977
working season. A project extension service has been set up and is operating
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 898  Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement. However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received. The
remaining item financed by the loan, technical assistance, should soon com-
mence, under a contract now being negotiated with consultants. The growth
in passenger traffic slowed in 1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased
in November 1975. Freight traffic has commenced to grow again (6% in 1975/76)
and further increases are expected in following years, mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT failed
to earn any return in 1975/76, (against the prescribed 2% rate of return),
but, with the increased traffic, it expects to earn 0.8% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76)   At request of Borrower, Closing Date is being extended to
December'31, 1977.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19. 1974; Effective Date:   October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is about one year behind schedule through delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there has been a marked improvement in the pace of
construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is being made in developing agricultural extension services
in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million, or about
96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due to price
inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the
increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over the entire
project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development than
envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases in
projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at
28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component is
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14. 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is slightly ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2. 1974; Closing Date:
June 30. 1979
Owing to considerable delays in contract awards, some of which
have been retendered, the project completion may be delayed by about 12
months beyond the original schedule, i.e. until mid-1979. Consequently,
disbursements are lagging behind the earlier estimates but no change in the
Closing Date seems necessary at this time. Financial performance of MWWA
continues to be less than satisfactory. The Borrower is taking steps to
improve its billing and collection of revenue and has asked its consultants
to evaluate its leakage control programs to reduce high volume of unaccounted
for water. Proposals for increase in tariffs are also receiving Government's
consideration.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As a result of delays in hiring consultants, the start of major
construction was delayed by about a year. However, tenders were recently
received on the first major civil works contract; most of the equipment for
the project is now on order and prospects are good that no further serious
delays will occur. The on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with two
pilot projects in operation and four more nearing completion. The consulting
services for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of
resident staff and a greater level of assistance in project management.
Systems for monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are



ANNEX II
Page 8
being established and the reporting of project progress has improved. The
first phases of the Chao Phya Basin Study and the Pattani Irrigation Feasi-
bility Updating Study, also financed from the loan, have been completed.
Consultants are being selected for the RID Administration and Organization
Study.
Loan No. 1198T  Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. Implementation of the
road components has fallen six months behind schedule due to delay in the award
of a consulting contract, now due to be signed in October. Progress has been
slow in the upland crop component due to problems in management, staffing and
organization. Other components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress is satisfactory. The seed production and pasture develop-
ment program is on schedule; the "Loaned-Bull" Program after a faulty beginning
is now gathering momentum; serious problems with project staffing are near
resolution and the technical assistance component is being ably implemented
by the experts financed by the New Zealand Government. Disbursements are
considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the next few months
once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Much useful preparatory work in research, training and expansion of
production capacity for planting material has been done and the project is
off to a good start. First year targets are expected to be reached.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is on schedule. Procurement action has been initiated
for all components and civil works has commenced.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13. 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) 2 years;
(b) IEAT/UNDP/UNIDO;
(c) August 1974, November 1974;
(d) November 8, 1976;
(e) July 22, 1977;
(f) October 18, 1977.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Technical Assistance.   The Bank is hastening action for early
selection of a 4-man advisory group attached to IEAT to be funded by UNIDO
under a cooperative arrangement (para. 32).
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Access Road.  The Government will ensure that a 10 km stretch of
PHRAKHANONG - LAT KRABANG road is improved (para. 29).
2.        Electric Supply.   The Government will ensure that MEA would provide
necessary electric supply in accordance with the project schedule (para. 30).
3.        Telephone Lines.   The Government will cause TOT to provide by December
1978 at least 120 telephone lines for the Estate (para.-30).
4.        Project Management.   In consultation with the Bank and by December 1977,
IEAT will appoint a Project Manager and an Advisor (para. 33).
5.        Workers' Housing Colony.   The Government will cause NRA to plan and
implement, in a timely manner, a suitable housing development in the general
area of Lat Krabang (para. 35).



ANNEX III
Page 2
6.        Government Contributions.   Government equity funds ($3.87 million)
will be advanced as needed to finance land purchase and a portion of land
development expenditures (para. 40).
7.        IEAT's Financial Position.   (a) IEAT will prepare (and present to the
Bank by December 31, 1977) a suitable Plan of Action to improve its financial
position (para. 42); and (b) IEAT will constantly monitor costs with a view
to adjusting prices of sale and lease of its land and factories, in consultation
with the Bank, to ensure a financial return of not less than 10% in real terms
on IEAT's investment in Lat Krabang (para. 44).



918-             10I0            102               10,,                   CHINA
/                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURMA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t   S   | 0     0   >    0    ~~~~~~~~L A O S       g0o      W    M
Si  Chiang     Ch1ong  ))                                  4 \i
-la-  \   ;  9   eMoh                               Ch - t  s  o  AM
e                         9A  -e                                      SNLAOOR
C3,ij \ 4 X  t   Ubont Alal  Chlossg  0S        honit jol 1.
X 9v              =X                                              l~~~J 
14'                    NPTHAI                                                          14orh
IBt     A -w -   S ; '                  iINDUSTRIAL     ESTATE PROGRAM
\Mae sX    ;      h .o Olo_'kj '| ' SEE7      ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
I SErMAr                           ,   Hyd> o P8  R lo-rh   Jt
6  )   (>  |t          ^iL,          tO   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thermal Power Plants
Anacmran             (  on                                          230 k, T-,-si-o Lmes
N ,khoo RoIchosIoson  [  aD230 kv S.bstot,ons
Secz        , 2      |e               19          \           6       Ilk, SUbSt.t,-n   f
-12-            f lr^       2  NORTHERN (4)  CENTRAL (i)          -  P--may Roods       12--
11'                                                                         I r Prochuap tD CHIANG MAI  BANG CHANISee I+  ROlIWys  N
A rKh,, Khap  t) LAM PHUN  ( LAT KRABA  IND R  nd- EEtTATE P
8   f  / D LAM PH ANULOKG@) BANGKOEKs5lA8o  TS9eF REgLECRI I BPOW dRrYEM
(D PHITSANULOK  PROCES ~ ~ l ~ Thrrol  ooerPlol
/   ft/t   ~~~~(E SUKHOTHAI  13 NAANGAPORN (S.. Ds-0  Inte,noaHonal Bou,,dwres
(3  BANG POO  (S.. I-20  . ronmisio  Lne
2'  L   ro yz>/) NORTHEASTERN  C2) NTA PATHVrTHANI (S..  R
4  pf  .J@//   ~~~~~~(i UDON THANI  (?SARABURI
P         C  G MUBON RATCHATHANI  3  KLONG DANISee InSet.      50   100   N
h tL   lumphon  03 NAKHON RATCHASIMA   LAT RAYONG  KILOMETERS
E AD  N  0NAKORN PATOM
-10,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ (3        SOUKHTHARN  03NV  AON(e He)-3       rerotOo  odre
PHNGNG   RAN.P0-Se Hel
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0  0- ON BAR KET   C .O BURl V  5  50  10     20      355Or
J'  ~ ~ ~ ~  0  UO   KRABCATAI  0  IN  A  SeIel 
HAT YAI/SONGKHLA
ON          Gul' /o dN
an ngX jt Thom                                         _]Q0T,nb r\
2  PhAe,                           t                    .2 wnD Px  18(J
95~~~~~~~~~o y00      ngAkt ay5  0-Glofho/n\
K>  14
18a
98                IO       L A 102'A              GuJf  of  Tho,/ono'



