ZA/v    I/ 1y / - So
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
H4LCROF'ICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5776-RO   Type: (PR)
HOOPENGARD! X32554 / H5 245 / ECICC)
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MILLION
TO ROMANIA
MAY 6, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their nrtini dntioc Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Lou (pl. ral Lei)
US$1 - Lei 198
Leu 1 - US$ 0.0051
Lei ger US Dollar
Official     Interbank
1989  December    15
1990  November    25
1991 Aprl.        60           200
1991  November                 180
1992  May                      198
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC          Commercial Company (enterprise to be privatized)
CEC         State Savings Bank
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CMEA        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC          European Community
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
GOR         Government of Romania
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MoEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
NAP         National Agency for Privatization
NBR         National Bank of Romania
PETROM      RA for petroleum
POF         Private Ownership Fund
NVO         Private Voluntary Organization
QRs         Quantitative Trade Restrictions
RA          Regle Autonome (enterprise not to be privatized)
RAH         RA for coal
RAL         RA for lignite
RAFIROM     Holding company for -:efineries
RCB         Romanian Commercial Bank
RENEL       RA for Electricity
ROMGAZ      RA for Natural Gas
SA          IMF Standby Arrangement
SAL         Structural Adjustmernt Loan
SE          State-owned Enterprise
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SOF         State Ownership Fund
TA          Technical assistance
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
ROMANIA -Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Loan and Program Summary
1.    Introduction                                                             1
II.   The Challenges of Transition                                             2
A.    Structural Adjustment and the Development Agenda                   2
B.    The Reform Program and Recent Economic Developments                4
C.    The Government's Strategy, the Bank's Role, and the SAL            9
III.  Macro-Economic Policies: Prices, the Exchange Rate, and Stabilization 10
A.    Exchange Rate and Price Liberalization                            11
B.    Monetary Policy                                                   13
C.    Fiscal Adjustment                                                 14
D.    An Incomes Policy                                                 16
E.    Investment Programming                                            16
IV.  Reforming and Restructuring the Enterprise Sector                        17
A.    Trade and Competition Policies                                    18
B.    Enterprise Financial Discipline                                   19
C.    Privatization and Private Sector Development                      23
V.    Social Safety Net                                                       26
VI.   Medium-Term Outlook, External Financing Needs, and Creditworthiness   27
VII.  The Proposed Loan                                                        35
VIII. Recommendation                                                          37
Text Box: Enterprise Reform Program                                           20
Text Tables:
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators (1988-1991)                                  7
Table 2: Macroeconomic Projections                                            32
Table 3: Medium-Term Financing Plan                                           33
Table 4: Debt Indicators                                                      34
Annexes -- see next page
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited Romania in March,
1992, and that included T. Hoopengardner (Task Manager and Principal Country
Officer), F. Dhanji (Senior Economist), R. Anand (Senior Economist), W.
Abdelati (Economist) and M. Sumlinski (Consultant). W. McCleary (Lead
Economist) and E. Maciejewski (DMF Resident Representative) also participated
in the mission. Also contributing to the appraisal of this loan were missions
led by L. Fox (social sectors), R. Pepper (energy), and S. Brajovic-Bratanovic
(industry). EClCO (F. Levy, Division Chief) and EC1 (M. Viehen, DireA.tor) are
the Division and Department responsible for this loan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckSed without World Bank authoriation.



AumS
Annex I     : Macroeconomlc Indlcators to be Honitored under SAL             38
Annex II    : Matrix of SAL-supported Adjustment Measures & Conditlonality 39
Annex III   : Social Indicators of Development, 1991-92                      43
Armex IV    : Letter of Development Policy                                   45
Annex V     : Supplementary Project Data Sheet                               62
Annex VI    : Status of Bank Group Operations                                63
no:  IBRD No. 23664



ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTME  =AN (SAL)
OAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Romania
Amount:        US$400 million equivalent
lexms:         Repayment in seventeen years, including five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Des urigtIon    The Government of Romania is committed to basic economic
& Qhjgctsiv:  reform.  Its goals are: (i) maintaining a stable macro-economic
environment; (ii) making productive sectors efficient and
internationally competitive; (iii) privatizing land, housing
and enterprises; and (iv) protecting the affected segments of
the population. The objectives of the proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) are to support: the stabilization efforts
of the Government while maintaining the momentum of price
liberalization and the progressive opening of the economy;
enterprise reform, especially enterprise financial discipline
and privatization; and an affordable and effective social
safety net. This operation has been prepared in parallel with
_ second IMF Standby that is being considered by the Fund Board
on May 29, 1992.
lisks:         The primary risk to the proposed SAL is that social tension
created by the program could find expression through the
politial system, and that this could impede the reform program.
So far, the Romanian reform program has proceeded well despite
the short-term difficulties. Romanian governments since the
revolution have been committed to reform and we expect this
commitment to continue after the forthcoming election.
Romania's Parliament will ratify the SAL prior to loan
effectiveness.
Disbursements: The loan would be in two tranches, the first, equivalent to
$250 million available upon effectiveness and the second,
equivalent to $150 million after compliance with second tran^he
conditions expected approximately six months later.
Retroactive financing of up to $80 million, equivalent to
twenty percent of the loan, for expenditures incurred after
February 24, 1992, is proposed. The Japanese Export-Import
Bank is considering cofinancing with the amount not exceeding
$100 million equivalent.
Rate of Return:         Not applicable
ADpraisal Report:       Not applicable
Schgdule of       Bauk Fiscal Year        USS Millen
Disbursements:          FY92                     100
FY93                    300
IBRD No. 23664



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO ROMANIA
I. Introduction1
1.    Romania is one of the largest of the former centrally-planned economies
in the Central and East European Region with a land area of 237 thousand
square kilometers and a population of 23 million. Per capita income in 1990
was about $1620 (World Bank Atlas). The country has a wide range of natural
resources, including a fertile agricultural base, substantial deposits of coal
and lignite, oil and natural gas, and scattered mineral deposits. Long a
major food producer, Romania was a large exporter of agricultural products
until the early eighties.
2.    The Communist Party seized power in 1948 and quickly installed central
planning while nationalizing most privately-held property. In the early
fifties it instituted a strategy of self-sufficient industrialization.
Building on domestic hydrocarbon resources, the country invested heavily in
refining and downstream chemical plants, and established a very large machine-
building industry. Despite a lack of attention to consumer goods industries
and the service sector, and a development pattern highly intensive in the use
of energy and raw materials, the strategy was reasonably successful in
attaining rates of growth averaging between 6-8 percent per annum until the
late seventies.
3.    In the aftermath of the second oil shock (1979), Romania had difficulty
servicing its external debt. The sudden withdrawal of short-term foreign
credits prompted a decision to prepay all foreign debt, a process completed in
1989. The resulting import compression had deeply negative economic and
social consequences for the nation. The importation of modern machinery and
equipment was almost completely halted, leaving an obsolete and depreciated
capital stock. Little room was allowed for imports of raw materials, and
growth slowed substantially. At the end of the decade, production and per
capita incomes were no higher than at the beginning. While investment
remained high during the eighties, by far the greater part was channelled
towards existing, inefficient industries; in the latter half of the decade,
investment was progressively diverted to huge and unproductive "showcase"
projects. The availability of food and other consumer goods declined sharply;
electricity and heat were diverted away from households to supply energy for
the industrial export drive; pronatalist health policies, denying all forms of
contraception to the population, led to tragic rates of maternal and infant
mortality; historic city centers were razed; a program to relocate villagers
to new towns was begun. The end of the decade witnessed an increasingly
demoralized and weary population, profoundly isolated--both politically and
socially--from the rest of the world.
I The Country Economic Memorandum, *gania, th Callen  of Taniti
(9497-RO dated December 3, 1991), covers background and recent economic
developments in detail.



2
4.    Following the bloody overthrow of the Ceausescu regime in December 1989,
elections were held in May 1990. These were won by a coalition of parties
affiliated under the banner of the National Salvation Front, with Ion Iliescu
as President and Petre Roman appointed as Prime Minister. The new government
adopted a sweeping program to turn Romania into a market economy.
International support for Romania rapidly dissipated after protesting students
in Bucharest were attacked by miners, reportedly with conservative political
support, in June 1990. Nevertheless, the government continued with the reform
program and, by September, 1991, had established the basic legal and
regulatory framework for a market economy. The miners returned to Bucharest
again in September 1991, this time ostensibly to protest price liberalization
and the accompanying austerity program. Although the miners do not enjoy
widespread popular support, they nevertheless succeeded in forcing the
resignation of Roman's government.
5.    The new government was a multi-party coalition led by Theodor Stolojan,
one of the most respected economists and reformers in the country. Stolojan
has, with the support of Parliament, redoubled Romania's reform efforts. A
new Constitution, ratified by popular referendum in December, 1991, guarantees
property rights and confirms "Romania is a market economy". Elections for
Parliament and the Presidency, planned for late June or early July, 1992, are
likely to lead to another reform-minded coalition, albeit with parliamentary
power more widely dispersed among the various parties than at present.
II. The Challenags of Transition
A. Structural Adjustment and the Development Agenda
6.    In intensive dialogue over the past two years, the Romanian government
and the Bank have found considerable agreement on the priorities for
adjustment and development. The proposed SAL is a critical instrument to
forward the process of policy definition and implementation, and to help
provide a framework for the desired structural changes. In discussing
Romania's program and potential SAL components, several strategic themes have
been reiterated as reference points for guiding the overall program of
adjustment.
7.    Like other countries in the region, Romania's economy under communism
was run on strict command lines. Prices paid little allocative or signalling
role. Materials and supplies were allocated to enterprises on the basis of
pre-established production targets. The fiscal and financial systems were
passive redistributors of resources. Private property rights were largely
extinct. The first element of the adjustment agenda has thus been the
development of market institutions, including the reintroduction of the price
mechanism, the reinstitution of private property rights, the design of a new
legal framework, and the transformation of public policy and administration to
address fundamentally different needs and challenges.
8.    At the beginning of this process, Romania had no recent history of
decentralized price-setting or of enterprise autonomy in decision making--
unlike Hungary and Poland, where partial reforms had been implemented ten to



3
twenty years earlier. The autarkic and self-reliant character of the
Ceausescu regime had denied Romanian managers exposure to market economies, to
modern technologies and to modern commercial and financial practices; civil
servants, bankers and academics lacked even an elementary acquaintance with
market economics and institutions. As a result, the leap towards market
economics has had little to build upon.
9.   Another major challonge of adjustment is the downsizing, restructuring,
tecbnological upgrading and reorientation of Romania's industrial sector,
while managing the socio-geographic consequences of rapid change. Industry
accounts for about half of production in Romania, and about 70 percent of
industrial output is devoted to the manufacture of producer goods. This
vector of industrial supply is quite inconsistent with the composition of
domestic demand, ard is not explained by any evident comparative advantage in
international trade. In addition, most individual enterprises suffer from
production inefficiencies: they operate in highly concentrated settings, are
greatly overstaffed, produce a sreat variety of products on short runs, use
old and often obsolescent equipment and technologies, and in many instances
produce output that is uncompetitive internationally. Past location decisions
have emphasized geographical dispers-on of enterprises, leaving mizy
individual towns hostage to the fortunes of one or two large enterprises.
Abrupt structural change will consequently create severe regional distress.
10. Adjustment of the economy towards more efficient energy consumption and
more reliable and efficient supply is central to both near and medium-term
development.  Much of Romania's industrialization was premised on the
availability of abundant domestic primary energy sources of coal, oil and
natural gas. Known reserves of oil and natural gas have, however, been in
rapid decline, and production has been falling since the mid-seventies.
Imports of energy are growing rapidly and now account for over one-third of
the overall import bill; in late 1991, the unavailability of foreign exchange
to finance energy imports was an important factor in the decline in domestic
production. At the same time, the pattern of development has been largely
wasteful of energy; sub-sectoral energy intensities 3-8 times higher than
comparable industries in OECD countries are routinely reported. Moreover, the
domestic electricity generating system has seriously deteriorated due to lack
of adequate maintenance and use of poor grade materials in important
components. The total installed capacity of 22 GW is capable of only 9 GW of
output.
11. While building the institutions of the market, restructuring industry
and reducing energy intensity represent a core agenda of adjustment, there are
additional areas of policy emphasis which could yield rapid benefits. In the
interwar years, Romania was the largest food producer and largest agricultural
exporter in the region. The collectivization of land and discriminatory
pricing policies to extract surpluses to feed the investment drive in industry
dulled agricultural incentives, reduced productivity growth, and resulted in
stagnant or declining output for some years. A properly devised agricultural
strategy and institutional support could stimulate a reasonably rapid supply
response.



4
12.   Prior to the last decade, Romania was making significant inroads into
competitive Western markets with exports of agricultural commodities,
machinery, wood products, textiles and other consumer goods. A share of this
success can be at*ributed to uneconomically low prices or soft financing
terms, but the potential for exports at market prices appears to be high in
these sectors, as well as ir tourism. over the eighties, however, trade
patterns shifted away from Romania's underlying comparative advantage. The
economy largely exported qualitatively inferior machinery and equipment and
consumer goods to the (former) Soviet Union, in exchange for oil, gas and raw
materials. Convertible currency trade has been overwhelmingly dominated by
the import of fuels and metals and the export of refined products. (In
1988-89, total exports were about 19 percent of GDP, divided equally between
the CMEA and convertible currency trade.2) The restoration of export
dynamism must be an important objective of adjustment policies to satisfy the
demand for imports of raw materials and energy and to facilitate the technical
upgrading and modernization of the capital stock.
13.   Romania does have the advantage of a very small foreign debt and could,
in principle, use its borrowing capacity to help finance the transformation of
the productive base of the economy. Thus far, however, the financial markets
have not found the country attractive. This lack of private financial support
"y 'Be zttributable to a credibility gap between the GOR's stated intentions
and what financial markets think the GOR can actually deliver, but it may also
be simply that other countries in the region are more familiar. Because
external finance is limited, it is especially important that it be used
wisely. In particular, it will be important that such borrowing be largely
used for investment rather than consumption. In this regard, the development
of an investment program, at least for the public sector, is of particular
importance for the restoration of growth and long-term development.
B. The Reform Program and Recent Economic Develoments
Systemic Reforms
14.    The government which took office following the May 1990 elections
announced the unequivocal intention to transform the economy into a market
economy. It was generally understood in Romania that this would entail
massive systemic change. Specific programs have been developed at an intense
pace, most often by individuals with little experience and with recourse to
foreign advice largely limited to the Bank and Fund. The results have been
considerable and impressive:
(i) Leaal Framework. A formidable volume of legislation (over a hundred
bills) covering most of the essential legal institutions of a market
economy has been enacted. The new Constitution guarantees property
2 For comparison, in 1980-81, exports to all destinations were about 31
percent of GDP and imports about 33 percent of GDP.



5
rights. The most important remaining missing pieces of the legal
framework are a Bankruptcy Law (paragraph 59) and a Competition Law
(paragraph 57).
(ii) Prices and Trade, A three-stage price liberalization (paragraph
29) has freed most prices in the economy, except for some basic food
products, household basic needs such as rents and heat, and energy
prices to households. Such exceptions, however, are an important
fraction of household budgets and are the subject of specific SAL
conditionality (paragraph 45). The exchange rate was unified in
November 1991, and the leu made convertible for all current account
transactions. A new import tariff code, with modest nominal pr-tection
rates (the majority between zero and 15 percent) became effective on
January 1, 1992. There are no quantitative restrictions on imports,
although a reduced number of QRs still apply to exports.
(iii) Financial Sector Reform. A banking reform has established a two-
tier banking system. The central bank operates under one of the most
independent charters in the region; indirect instruments of monetary
control are being rapidly developed; and a number of foreign banks have
begun operations.
(iv) The Role of Government. In the aftermath of the revolution,
command structures were rapidly broken; the number of ministries
was reduced by half; enterprises were given full autonomy over
decision-making. The general government's share of national
income has been reduced from about 50 percent to about 30 percent
of GDP -- in particular, the government has removed itself from
making investment and financing decisions for enterprises. The
tax system is undergoing a fundamental reform: a VAT is being
designed, as is a system of generalized personal income taxation.
A decentralization of expenditure responsibilities to local
governments has been enacted.
(v) Ptivatizatign.  Enterprises have been reclassified into "regies
autonomesa and "commercial companies" with the intent that the latter be
privatized.  The great majority of enterprises have been commercialized
(transformed into joint-stock, limited liability companies); a program
of distributing 30 percent of stock free to the population through a set
of mutual funds is about to be implemented; the first privatizations of
small shops and restaurants occurred in December, 1991, and ambitious
timetables exist for further privatization of small units of enterprises
and also medium- and large-scale enterprises. Governance arrangements
for enterprises are being installed through the establishment of State
Enterprise Councils (roughly equivalent to boards of directors). About
50 percent of the housing stock has been sold to the population. A
liberal Foreign Investment Law has been passed, and many legal
constraints to the development of the private sector have been removed.
(vi) LandR4efoxr. The country has embarked upon a major land reform,
and 65 percent of agricultural land already has passed into private



6
ownership (although cadastral surveys to enable land titling are still
in progress).
(vii) Social Safety Net. Building upon previous programs, a safety net
comprising uneWployment compensation, family assistance and pensions has
been installed. These systems, though imperfect (paragraph 76 and
following), have established the bases for cushioning the immediate
impact of unemployment on family incomes.
15.   The social costs and consequences of the transition are bdginning to be
felt, and strains are evident. Enterprises and their managers have been slow
to respond to the new market environment. The understandable weaknesses of
public administration have resulted in delays in deiinition and delivery of
the programs needed to give support to the reform. The transition, in short,
is not without difficulties. These specific problems and the proposed SAL
responses are discussed in greater detail below.
Stabilizatign
16.   In 1990, in the first six months after the revolution, macro management
was loose as a result of inevitable confusion accompanying systemic collapse.
Large wage increases were awarded in an effort to lift the harsh climate of
consumer repression. The consequent rapid rise in consumption, followed by
the demise of the CMEA and the Gulf War (Iraq was a major trading partner and
debtor), resulted in a serious deterioration in the balance of payments. The
current account balance swung from several years of surplus to a deficit of 9
percent of GDP, almost entirely financed by a drawdown in reserves (see Table
1 on page 7). Thus, in addition to initiating the reforms enumerated above,
Romania adopted a stabilization program in early 1991 which was supported by a
Standby Arrangement with the WNF.
17.   A dual-exchange rate system was introduced, under which energy and raw
materials were imported at a low "official' rate, financed by a 50 percent
surrender requirement on export receipts. A very tight nominal credit ceiling
was imposed, along with an incomes policy offering partial indexation of
wages. In addition, a stringent fiscal target was set, with a revised deficit
not to exceed 2.4 percent of GDP. Through September, 1991, the Romanian
authorities met the credit targets in the IMF program and the fiscal deficit
for the year was only 2 percent of GDP. However, there was a considerable
shortfall in expected financing from international sources, leading to a
revision in expected reserve levels. As 1991 progressed, it became evident
that the dual exchange rate system was becoming a source of major economic
distortions; accordingly the rate was unified in November 1991.



7
Table 1. Macroeconomic Indicators
1988     1989     1990    1991 p)
............. ........................... ............... .......................... .................
Growth rates
GDP production                            -0.5    -5.6    -8.4    -13.0
Industry                                -2.9    -6.6    -19.2   -20.6
Agriculture                              9.1     -6.0     12.5    -1.6
GDP Expenditure                           -1.9      0.0      6.1    -18.6
Investment                              -2.1     *1.6   -38.3   -30.a
Consumqption                             2.1    -0.4      10.2   -1:.v
Trade & Balance of Payments
Export (bit 5)
Cony. currencies                         6.5      6.0      3.4      3.5
Transf. rubles                           4.5      4.1      2.2      0.6
Total                                   11.4    10.5       5.8      4.1
leport (bit S)
Conv. currencies                         2.9      3.4      5.1      4.8
Transf. rubles                           4.3      4.6      3.7      0.5
Total                                    7.6      8.4      9.1      5.3
Current account balance (bit I"  a)        3.9      2.5    -3.3      -1.1
Curr. acc. balance as X of GDP a)          6.5      4.7     -8.6    -3.4
Reserves excl. gold (bit $)                0.8      1.9      0.4      0.4
Reserves in months of import  b)           3.2      6.5      0.9      1.0
Fiscal - Cons. General Governrent (bit le1)
Deficit                                   S0.5     66.9    -3.5      -T.5
Revenues                               384.6   408.0   358.3   804.4
Expenditures                           334.1   341.1    361.8   811.9
as X of GOP
Deficit                                    5.9      8.4    -0.4    -0.4
Revenues                                44.9    51.1    42.5    39.0
Expenditures                            39.0    42.7      42.9     39.3
Money & credit
Credit (bit t1.)                         813.1    810.4    615.2   1326.7
N2 (bit t1e)                             424.3   441.7   514.5  1023.4
Velocity (GDPIM2)                          2.0      1.8      1.6      2.0
Prices & wages
Inflation - CPI :etc. over Dec.)           2.9      0.6     37.7   222.8
Inflation - GDP defiator                   1.9     -1.2     15.5    181.4
Real wage                                 -0.2      2.4      4.6    -24.9  c)
Uneoiloyment (th)                           na       na     60.0    337.4
Uneeployment rate                           na       na      1.0      2.9
Nemo items
Exchange rate                             14.3    14.9    22.4    64.6
GOP fn current prices (bit lei)         8S7.0   798.0   844.0  2065.1
GDP in cons. '80 prices (bit lei)        738.9   696.1    637.5   5S4.3
... . ....   .. . .. . ...................................................._  .     _  
p) - preliminary
a) Ffgures for 1991 are based on Balance of Payments figures different from
data reported by custom which is used for calculations in Tables 2 & 3.
b) in months of convertible currency inports.
c) December 1991 over October 1990.



8
18.  Nevertheless, the stabilization effort was undermined by the appearance
of large enterprise arrears. By end-1991, these arrears amounted to some 20
percent of GDP on a net basis. Several reasons have been posited for the
appearance of arrears. In the first place, the rapid, successive price
liberalizations led to an extended period of disjointed and chaotic price
setting with unjustified price increases reportedly being instituted by
monopoly suppliers of intermediate goods. In these circumstances, some
enterprises were simply unwilling to pay suppliers. Secondly, the tight
credit program failed to provide for the huge increase in requirements for
working capital consequent upon the large change in the price level. This led
to highly constrained enterprise liquidity positions. Thirdly, there were no
clear arrangements for interest on arrears. In a period of rising interest
rates, some enterprises may well have viewed arrears as their least-cost
source of funds. Some creditors made attempts to index their claims to
inflation, but this does not seem to have been a general practice. Fourthly,
some enterprises were in fundamental difficulty, and the price liberalizations
simply unmasked their inability to cover even variable costs. Their
difficulties in turn cascaded and spread through the system, undercutting the
liquidity of profitable firms as well.
19.  Late in 1991, Parliament passed the Law on Settlement of Outstanding
Payments (Law 80) instructing the National Bank of Romania to address the
arrears problem and clear the "blockage" of payments. This was accomplished
by a generalized extension of credit through the banking system. Enterprises
were required to use these credits to pay their suppliers in successive rounds
of settlement. The exercise, referred to as 'global compensation," was
largely completed by end-February. A credit expansion of about lei 400
billion was required, and the National Bank then took measures, including the
imposition of reserve requirements, to offset this expansion. NBR has also
provided for interest on arrears at market rates, eliminating what may have
been an incentive for late payment.
Economic IMlact
20.  The costs of stabilization and reform have already been high.
Industrial output fell by about 20 percent in 1990 and ah,.in in 1991 (a two-
year drop of about 36 percent); investment fell by over 60 percent; and
overall GDP has fallen by nearly 20 percent (see Table 1). A number of
factories have been closed, and, in the large integrated enterprises, numerous
production lines have been shut down. Although Romania was not as closely
integrated into the CHUA as other countries in the region, the collapse of the
trading bloc exacted substantial costs: exports and imports have roughly
halved in value since 19893, and the economy faces serious difficulties in
3 As seen in Table 1, convertible currency exports have plummeted. This
may be attributed to three primary factors: first, a substantial portion of
Romanian trade with the Soviet Union and the other CMEA countries was already
denominated in hard currency prior to 1989, so the collapse of this trade
reduced both hard currency and transferable ruble earnings; second, Romania
lost as customers Iraq and several other West Asian countries affected by the
Gulf War; and third, Romania stopped its previous policy of exporting at all



9
financing its energy, raw material and food requirements. The successive
price liberalizations have resulted in a quadrupling of the price level; real
wages fell by about 25 percent between November 1990, when the price
liberalization began and December 1991 (Table 1). At the same time, official
unemployment rose from negligible numbers to some 588,000 by mid-April 1992
(about 4.6 percent of the labor force) and is expected to continue rising
rapidly in the near future.
C. The GoveXnment's Strategy. the Bank's Role. and the SAL
21.   The GOR's reform strategy has been surprisingly steady, although there
has been a discernible maturing of expectations over the past year. The
principal policy-makers are now fully aware of the costs of transition and of
the harsh external environment they face. While debates between "fast-track"
reform and "gradualism" do surface, there is no constituency for returning to
the past.
22.   At the same time, the Romanian authorities have drawn the lesson from
experience that the transition cannot just be left to its own devices. Simply
redefining the system of prices, decision-making and laws, and then
withdrawing government from an active role, is, in their view, insufficient to
generate positive and acceptable economic outcomes. The near closing down of
the economy in November 1991 for lack of energ7, the forceful government
interventions required to assure food supplies, and the rise of the
interenterprise arrears problem are pointed to as examples that introducing
orderly market conditions among inflexible, inexperienced and undeveloped
microeconomic decision units will take time. In addition to the perceived
need for stronger management of the transition, there is now the recognition
that enforcing the real restructuring of the microeconomic and sectoral bases
of the economy is the fundamental challenge facing the reform program.
23.   The government remains committed to moving decisively and coherently
across a broad front to sustain the reform effort. The mejor objectives
include: (i) ensuring a stable macro-economic environment as a prerequisite
for success in the reform program; (ii) transforming the productive sectors to
make them efficient and internationally competitive; (iii) accelerating the
transformation of ownership structures; and (iv) providing some protection to
the affected segments of the population.
24.   In support of Romania's reform effort, the Bank's medium-term country
strategy is to:
a. Facilitate and support the structural reform efforts and the
transformation to a market economy;
b. Contribute substantially (with the IMF, EC, EBRD) to financing
balance-of-payments requirements, and help establish Romania's
creditworthiness through supporting programs of adjustment and reform;
costs -- i.e., domestic demand began competing with foreign demand.



10
c. Support sectoral development efforts; and
d. Help mobilize resources from both official and private sources.
25.   The proposed SAL is the most important resource transfer instrument in
the lending program. The SAL has also been the most critical element of the
policy dialogue, involving the Prime Minister and his Cabinet and senior
officials in the NBR in long and detailed discussions of reform policy. Its
conditionality would set the basis for the lending operations to follow.
Moreover, the loan may become an important cofinancing vehicle; the Japanese
Export-Import Bank is considering cofinancing with the World Bank with the
amount not exceeding $100 million equivalent.
26.   The proposed SAL has three objectives":
* To support stabilization efforts, while maintaining the momentum of
price liberalization and the progressive opening of the economy (Section
III below);
* To further structural reforms and to expand private ownership in the
enterprise sector (Section V); and
* To ensure that an affordable and effective social safety net is in
place (Section IV).
III. Macro-Economic Policies; Prices, the Exchange Rate and Stabilization
27. The Government's macroeconomic program for 1992 is designed to (a)
contain the decline in real output; (b) reduce the rate of inflation sharply
from a monthly rate of 19.5 percent in January 1992 to less than 1.5 percent
at the end of 1992; and (c) bring about an increase in international reserves
of $500 million (one month of projected 1992 imports) by the end of the year.
Supporting these objectives will be a consistent set of fiscal, monetary, and
interest rate policies; a tight incomes policy; and a flexible exchange rate
policy in support of a more open economy. In addition, a program of
structural reforms--including further price liberalization, further loosening
of controls on exports and imports, privatization, improvements in public
enterprise performance, and additional financial and fiscal reforms--is aimed
at improving economic efficiency. In support of its 1992 stabilization
program, the Government has reached agreement on a one-year Standby
Arrangement from the IMF, in an amount equivalent to SDR 314.04 million. It
also expects to receive financial support under the Compensatory and
Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) totalling SDR 76.5 million. &  a Bar
nresetatin and Baecond tracerlase conditin he0khas akDtedand
Formal conditions for Board presentation and second tranche release
are summarized in the context of the entire SAL-supported adjustment program
in Annex II on page 39.



11
agreed idficators nd tartsfor 1992 (macro indicators to be monitored are
listed on page 38).
28.   At the same time, the GOR recognizes that macroeconomic stability will
again be threatened if enterprise arrears are allowed to accumulate. Clearly,
tight monetary and fiscal policy are prerequisite to restoring price
stability, and an incomes policy and other policies can help, but it is
apparent that both the effective conduct of macro-policy and effective
restructuring of the industrial sector require a considerable improvement in
enterprise financial discipline as well. This section discusses price
liberalization, monetary and fiscal policy, and other macroeconomic
stabilization policies. Enterprise arrears and enterprise financial
discipline are treated in Section IV on reforming the enterprise sector.
A. ExchanWM Rate and Price Liberalization
29.   Beginning in November 1990,5 price liberalization in Romania has
proceeded in several steps. By July 1991, most price ceilings were abolished
except for certain minerals and ener.g products, some agricultural inputs,
and, in the social interest, certain consumer goods. As a result, most prices
can be freely negotiated between economic agents, except in cases where there
are three or fewer producers or when prices are temporarily subsldized by the
budget. In these exceptional cases the prices are negotiated by the economic
agents under the surveillance of specialized government bodies. The list of
explicitly subsidized items was reduced to five consumer food items -- bread,
sugar, edible oil, milk and butter (a few cheap meat products were
subsequently added); and a number of wage goods including house rents, urban
transport and household energy. These commodities are an important part of
the household consumption basket, and their prices, too, are being liberalized
over a two-year period (paragraph 45). Producer subsidies remain for some
minerals and for the railways.
30.   In November 1991, the growing distortion in the dual exchange rate
system led to a unification and sizeable devaluation o. the exchange rate
(from 60 lei to 180 lei to the dollar); the new exchange regime adopted was
that of a *managed* float with rates established in an interbank market.
Exporters were required to surrender 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds
to NBR at the interbank market rate of exchange, and importers bid for foreLgn
exchange in the interbank market. Starting in April, 1992, the exchange
regime was further liberalized. The surrender requirement has been reduced to
30 percent, and licensed foreign exchange offices are permitted to participate
directly in the interbank market.
31. The government opted to pass the full impact of the devaluation on
tradeable goods prices through to the domestic economy, the only exceptions
being the selected subsidized consumer items listed in the previous paragraph.
The immediate impact was an initial burst in inflation reflecting the
realignments of relative prices, in the face of downward nominal price
rigidity. At the same time, in an effort to avoid the disorderly conditions
5 A full treatment is found in the CEK, pages 35-38 and 83-88.



12
of the previous liberalization episodes, the government issued Decision 776
attempting to establish a less disruptive environment of price formation, so
as to provide a period of relative calm where enterprises could assess the
implications of the new pricing structures on their costs and competitiveness.
The decree sets limits on some prices and all margins, and requires price
registration. Intended price increases must be announced 90 days in advance.
32.   Although the intentions behind the Decision were understandable, the
powers granted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance to "prevent abuses" in
price formation went beyond the philosophy and principles of establishing a
liberal, non-regulated environment of decentralized price setting. In the
meantime, the exchange rate came under renewed pressure, as "street" rates,
and rates quoted in licensed, decentralized exchange offices rose to 75-100
percent higher than the interbank rate. (Much of the reason for this can be
attributed to inconsistent interest rate policies which are now being
corrected; see paragraph 36 and following below). The government has thus
taken measures to further liberalize the exchange rate regime. The GOR
intends that state involvement in price setting will be limited to (a) the
remaining subsidized consumer goods until the end of 1993, by which time the
subsidies are to be phased out, and (b) clearly documented cases of market
failure, such as natural monopolies (see LDP paragraph 31). Ag,LJge     c
conditiong ofsecond tranche re1lease. the 00KwiL eliminate Ulmts on Rdrice
n                                                                          3 E
&y*s= The governmeiSt intends to rely on alternative means of achieving the
goals of Decision 776 such as: (i) the passage and forceful implementation of
a Competition Law to remove barriers to entry (paragraph 57); (ii) the
collection and widespread dissemination of information on international prices
to strengthen the negotiating power of buyers; and (iii) the use of 'moral
suasion" and, when necessary in special cases, arbitration when price rises
appear excessive and unwarranted.
33.   Enrgy Pricing.  The GOR is determined to allow energy prices (except
for households, which is about 11 percent of total demand) to reflect
international equivalents.   - a condition of       oraesent=ati. thes 00
raisd unces  or cude  il.lecticiy,col  n  llfnte to worxld mrket
IU2sL  With the exception of household energy, price increases have ranged
from about 300 percent to about 1000 percent within one year.        ge U,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(See LDP paragraph
32). Electricity, heat, natural gas, LPG and heating oil prices to households
have been maintained at subsidized levels, although these subsidies will be
eliminated in steps along with other consumer subsidies (see paragraph 45).
34. In view of high energy intensities of production, certain sectors --
metallurgy, chemicals, and construction materials (which jointly consume 40
percent of energy produced in the economy) -- are likely to find their profits
squeezed and bankruptcies imminent. Nonetheless, the decision to move most



13
energy prices to international equivalents is to be welcomed, given the high
priority of reducing energy intensity.
35.   Obviously, higher energy prices will have little impact on real behavior
unless enterprises are compelled actually to pay them. Through 1991, many
enterprises stopped paying RENEL, the RA for electricity production and
distribution; indeed, arrears to RENEL were an important component in the
overall arrears problem. At the end of January 1992, RENEL informed 40 state
industrial firms that their electricity would be cut off if they didn't pay
overdue bills ranging in size from lei 300,000 to lei 15 million
(approximately $1,500 to $80,000). Half of the firms complied immediately,
and more rushed to pay as power began to be phased down. It remains to be
seen whether RENEL's crackdown will have a demonstration effect on other firms
that have continued to supply customers in arrears.
B. Monetary Policy
36.   The 1991 stabilization program allowed for a growth of total domestic
credit of 15 percent in 1991 in nominal terms, with a targeted inflation rate
of about 160 percent (December 1991 over December 1990). With the emergence
of the arrears problem, the credit target could not be held and domestic
credit grew by about 100 percent in 1991. Over the same period, prices rose
by 233 percent, following a 38 percent price hike in the final quarter of 1990
(meaning that the cumulative inflation since prices were liberalized in
November 1990 has been 322 percent). This increase, coupled with negative
real interest rates, appears to have eliminated the monetary overhang (the
M2/GDP ratio fell from an estimated 72 percent in September 1990, to 50
percent in 1991).
37. Monetary policy will serve as one of the two main nominal anchors in the
1992 stabilization program. Together with fiscal and wage policies, it has
the responsibility of containing inflationary pressures arising from
continuing price adjustment and liberalization, exchange rate changes, and
exogenous external shocks. Accordingly, the program has an 88 percent target
for expansion in broad money (M2), which is based on conservative projections
for prices and the demand for money. The target for the increase in domestic
credit is 67 percent. The target for inflation for the program period is 115
percent, so the money supply will decline substantially in real terms.
38. Interest rates were technically liberalized on April 1, 1991, in the
sense that banks were freed to set rates, and until January 1, 1992, there had
been no intervention by the authorities to influence the level of rates.
However, interest rates hardly moved during this period of high inflation.
For historical reasons, the State Savings Bank (CEC) is by far the dominant
taker of deposits, which it then on-lends to the other banks. This made NBR's
higher rediscount rate largely irrelevant. During all of 1991, the deposit
rates offered by CEC were highly negative in real terms -- at 6.25 percent
nominal per annum, in the face of an annual inflation of over 200 percent.
Banks "borrowing" deposits from the CEC at about 10 percent nominal have also
set low lending rates. All banks are able to accept deposits and issue
certificates of deposit, but they did not find it necessary as long as they
could borrow from the CEC. A docile banking public permitted the interest



14
rate rigidity to persist, although by the end of 1991 the CEC was beginning to
lose deposits and pressure was evident on the exchange rate.
39. The NBR imposed a deposit floor on the CEC on January 1, 192, tripling
interest rates (sight deposits: 18 percent; one-year time deposits: 24
percent). Given monthly inflation rates since the beginning of the year,
however, rates remained negative in real terms, and the Government has now
adopted a policy of maintaining interest rates on deposits and credit that are
positive in real terms with respect to anticipated inflation. To ensure that
the central bank's interest rate policies do have an impact on the real
economy, the government is requiring that major public savings institutions
pay market-related rates on their negotiable instruments.
40. Structural rigidities in the financial sector and interlinkages between
banks and their clients have inhibited the effective implementation of
monetary policy and created possible conflicts of interest for decision-makers
in the financial sector. Accordingly, the NBR intends to use its regulatory
powers to ameliorate these problems over time (see LDP paragraph 16 and
following).
C. Fiscal Adjustment
41. Government budget revenues fell from about 50 percent of GDP in 1989 to
39 percent of GDP in 1991 (Table 1). Although to some extent the decline
reflects the fall in economic activity, it has also been the result of a sharp
lifting of the tax burden on enterprises, as Romania transforms its tax system
co the needs of a market economy. During this period, the government has laid
the foundations of a modern tax system, putting in place a profit tax
(replacing obligatory profit remittances), a progressive individual (wage)
income tax (replacing the former payroll tax), and fundamentally modifying the
turnover tax. The fiscal authorities are continuing to effect improvements in
these taxes.  Preparations are underway to introduce a simplified VAT at the
beginning of 1993, and a global personal income tax in 1994.
42. The general government budget deficit in 1991 is estimated to have been
about 2 percent of GDP. This fiscal performance was attained during a year
when real GDP fell by 13 percent and industrial production by 21 percent, and
two stages of price liberalization occurred which, along with the unification
of the exchange rate, transferred some of the formerly implicit consumer
subsidies onto the budget. The burden of containing the deficit fell chiefly
on investment expenditures. Investment financing from the budget dropped to
4.4 percent of GDP in 1991 (from 17 percent of GDP in 1989 and 8 percent in
1990), as responsibility for investment was shifted from government to state
6 From January 1, 1992, the profit tax has been simplifeied by reducing
to two the number of rates and liberalizing the depreciation norms. The
authorities intend to move to a single, lower rate of profit tax when the VAT
is introduced. The turnover tax was also further modified as of December 1,
1991, reducing the number of rates to only 5 and simplifying the calculation
and payment of tax.



15
enterprises. To a large extent, the decline in government investment
expenditures was warranted to stop unproductive showcase projects as well as
to limit the access of RAs to the budget. However, needed investments in
health, education and infrastructure have also suffered; budgetary investments
in these sectors account for less than 2 percent of GDP now, vith the rest of
budget investment expenditures going to defence and the Cernovoda nuclear
power plant.
43. In 1992, the government is aiming for a 2 percent of GDP general
government deficit. At present, estimated budgetary subsidies to producers
are 2 percent of GDP7. The overall deficit target assumes that there will be
no additional claims on budgetary resources to finance losses of enterprises,
and that the process of restructuring and liquidation will remain
extrabudgetary. In this regard, the proposed monitoring of arrears and
measures to enforce greater enterprise discipline under the SAL assume
particular importance in order to avoid the recurrence of a cycle of arrears
buildup and bail-out of firms in difficulty.
44.   At the same time, considerable demands will be made on the budget to
meet the social costs of the transition. A large part of budget expenditures
is already directed toward some form of social assistance. About half of
consolidated general government budget expenditures in 1992 is for the social
safety net; pensions and family allowance cash transfers (excluding the wage
tax credit for children) are estimated at about 9 percent of GDP; consumer
subsidies about 6 percent of GDP; and unemployment compensation is projected
at about 2 percent of GDP. In addition, there is a modest system of locally
administered social assistance primarily targeted at the elderly, the disabled
and the handicapped. Of these, new schemes for social protection during the
transition period include unemployment benefits and consumer subsidies. The
GOR has earmarked financial resources to a special fund to finance
unemployment benefits. The amount budgeted seems sufficient to fund the
substantial increase in unemployment compensation that is expected in 1992
(paragraph 77).
45. Subsidies to households are for food (bread, milk, sugar, cooking-oil,
butter, and some meat products), for household electricity, heat, natural gas,
LPG, and heating oil, for rents, for public transportation and for some other
wage goods. The government is aware of the large budgetary cost and
unnecessarily wide coverage of these subsidies and intends phasing them out
and replacing them by a means-tested social assistance program by the end of
1993 (paragraph 78).                                      tarre dthe
consumer subsidies by end-1993. The government reduced subsidies to consumers
by 25 per cent on Kay 1, 1992 and intends to reduce them by a further 25 per
cent on September 1, 1992, and finally eliminate them by the tnd of 1993 (see
LDP paragraph 10). This phased subsidy reduction is already incorporated in
7 Although all RAs are permitted by law to receive producer subsidies,
the government has in fact restricted them to 5 mines and the Railway Company.
It is the intention of the GOR to eliminate even these over the medium-term;
recently two mines were closed down.



16
the 1992 budget.  As a ,segnd tranche condition. the SgR wll achiee
satisfactory DRoLre.s with the subsidy reduction &  rogram,
D. An Incomes Policy
46.   The incomes policy introduced in January 1991 was based on limits to
individual wage increases. This system was difficult to monitor and it
obstructed the development of labor markets. On January 1, 1992, the GOR
adopted a system that discourages inflationary increases in the total wage
bills of enterprises. Previous limits on individual wages were cancelled.
The system applies to all commercial companies with majority state ownership
and RAs. These firms may set individual wages and salaries, but increases in
the total wage bill above a given limit wi,l be taxed. The initial ceiling
was established as of October, 1991, and it is to be adjusted each quarter.
It is intended that the adjustments allowed will not keep pace with increases
in prices. In order to ameliorate an anti-employment bias in the system,
higher ceilings are available to expanding firms.
E. Inv_estment Prggramming
47.   As noted earlier, investment in the budget has dropped dramatically.
While this may be appropriate in the short t;erm in order to achieve
stabilization objectives and to stop expenditure on economically unsound
projects, the prolonged postponement of investment would harm the economy's
long-term prospects for recovery and growth. At the same time, there is a
very large overhang of unfinished public investment projects (over 50 percent
of 1990 GDP), which is urgently in need of review.  A  a  ojnditogn of Boalld
re,sentation. th  GOR ,has (a)  dertak"en a guick review of gublic investment
oroiects to identify tbose that should be stoo2dn imediately: and (b)
de2s2gnted a unit within fovernmet to take resoon,sibilt,v for public
,investment LrogxamminL.   To satisfy second tranche release conditions  the
GIOR intends to (a) com21et2 the inesmen  review. discU&s its results with
the Bank. and suseoen  gXJrolectsdth inadeguate iustification: and (bQ tf
theinvestment unit Ladeguate.y, estab2ish its work 2X2&a=m. and elaborate the
decision criteria it will us,e t,o evaltge roec,ts.  the GOR will comletae,a
detailed revieX  by the aed of 1992 ia 2reoaation forL the 1923 budset.  (See
LDP paragraph 13).
48. The largest ongoing investment project in Romania is the Cernavoda
nuclear power plant. Five units were originally planned; substantial work has
already been completed on Unit One. Even though Unit One may not have been
economic when the work started, it is probably justified on a "sunk cost"
basis to go ahead. Units Two through Five, however, are still at early stages
of development.  As  a coditlon of loard Presentation. the qQR arreed to
discontinue fundine for Units TIo Sthru     ieof the Cernavoa nulear ooe
2lanL DedinL coM1etion of ,a sNaisfAtaGo  studv of their eggnmic
t2zuLEFA   (see LDP paragraph 15).
8 The TA/Critical Imports Loan includes funds for an Investment Advisor,
for training in cost-benefit analysis, and for short-term assistance in major
reviews.



17
IV. Reforming and Restructuring the Enterprise Sector
49. The SAL will support the continuing restructuring of the enterprise
sector through price liberalization and decentralized price setting (paragraph
30 and following); the introduction of greater domestic competition (paragraph
57); further changes in tax codes and regulations to provide a less distorted
and more stable business environment; and more rapid progress in privatization
(paragraph 68 and following). Equally important will be assistance and
support to the government in developing criteria and implementation mechanisms
for enterprise liquidations and restructurings. As discussed above, macro-
economic signalling is ineffective when hard budgets do not exist, and overall
financial stability is threatened when insolvent firms entangle "good" firms
in their financial failures. It must be recognized, however, that
liquidations and restructurings are among the most difficult elements of
reform. Despite the many accomplishments of the reform program to date,
achievements in this area have lagged.
50.   The GOR's efforts can only take hold if enterprises adjust to the new
market environment. These adjustments have proved to be difficult in all
reforming countries. To begin with, managers are inexperienced, with
entrenched behavior patterns that take some time to alter. They are now
confronted by systemic, operational, financial and technological challenges
that they are ill-equipped to handle. Second, the responses called for by the
new market environment are inevitably painful -- in most instances requiring
shedding of labor, and in many cases involving closure of product lines or
entire factories. Not surprisingly, there are attempts to delay or avoid
taking necessary actions. Third, the ownership interest of the state is not
well defined. Managers have a certain latitude to run their enterprises in a
manner that serves their own interest rather than the public interest or the
long-term interests of the enterprises.
51. In these circumstances a variety of strategies and actions are needed.
First, there should be no retreat from the introduction of a liberal market
environment; the greatest stimulus to change will precisely be the necessity
of adaptation. Second, the enforcement of financial discipline is paramount.
Third, the state must exercise its continuing ownership functions through
pressing for appropriate restructuring and, if necessary, liquidation of
enterprises. At the same time, however, the private sector's share of
production should rapidly expand. Finally, the costs of adjustment have to be
tackled through the development of an effective safety net.
52. This section deals with particular aspects of these reforms to be
supported by the SAL:
(a) Trade and competition policies;
(b) Enterprise financial discipline; and
(c) Privatization and new private sector development
The social safety net is covered in Section V.



18
A. Trade and Competition Policies
53.   Trade liberalization.  The external sector can become an important
contributor to aggregate demand and a source of needed inputs. Foreign
competition for the domestic market, and the requirements of foreign
customers, can enforce efficiency and quality control. The trade regime is
therefore an important element of the enterprise environment. Trade
liberalization in Romania has proceeded rapidly. The monopolies of the 75
foreign trade organizations were abolished as early as February 1990, and
private enterprises are permitted to participate freely in trading activities.
The number of economic agents carrying out foreign trade activities increased
considerably, to about 19,700 commercial companies of which: 13,100 (67
percent) private companies; 5,100 (25 percent) joint ventures and 1,500 (8
percent) production commercial companies and regies autonomes. These new
units tend to be focusing on consumer goods, however, and interindustry trade
tends to remain concentrated.
54. Extorts. Temporary administrative controls on exports introduced in
1991 have been substantially reduced already. Except for a few cases, the
original justifications for export restrictions have been progressively
eroded; and, in consequence, the lists of banned items and the amounts of
quantitative restrictions have been periodically revised.         a condiion o
BoArd gresentAtioM. the gOR reue   henme   f foogdssublet o  xor bn
and cuotas by more than 501  elative  o  d-1991.  At the beginning of 1992,
the number of items subject to quantitative restrictions on exports was
reduced from 112 to 33, and the number of items temporarily prohibited from
export fell from 81 to around 35. Only two of these items, furniture and
sheet metal, accounted for one-third of the value of exports subject to QRs in
1991. The government recognizes the importance of removing obstacles to
export growth and, A A seon         hcil                  lir
exDot bans and auota  eiceot on sbsided  os  or thse reauort
restraint becaus  of codtin  ini rifcutis
55. Imorts. Despite the worsening balance of payments situation, the
authorities have avoided the use of quantitative restrictions on imports
throughout 1991. No import quotas or bans exist (except for armaments, drugs
and precious metals). Since 1990, all imports are subject to import licenses
that the GOR argues are automatic and maintained essentially for statistical
purposes. The Bank has argued against having any licenses, however automatic,
and it is the intention of the GOR to eliminate licenses in 1992 as the new
information system based on custom declarations provides an improved
statistical source. Although there are no quantitative restrictions on the
import side, import competition has been limited by foreign exchange
availability and its allocation through the inter-bank market. The GOR
intends to fully liberalize exchange rate transactions; the exchange rate
system will remain a managed float.
56. With the removal of non-tariff barriers, the revised tariff structure
has become the main instrument of trade policy. Recent revisions reduced the
dispersion in tariff rates, which were adopted under Resolution 673 in
September 1991 under the harmonized system nomenclature, generating a trade
weighted average nominal rate of protection of around 12X. The new tariff



19
code was submitted to GATT for negotiation of Romania's new protocol. In the
meantime, the government reduced the rates on most items substantially for
1992 only. The average weighted tariff rate for 1992 dropped to about 5
percent.
57.   a3g    L1ntLt., Little action has taken place with respect to competition
and antitrust thus far. An office in the Ministry of Economy and Finance has
been given responsibility in this area, but there is no competition or
antimonopoly law or enforcement power for relevant provisions of existing
legislation. The Bank instigated an OECD seminar on competition and antitrust
during the first week in September 1991, and the GOR is now drafting a
Competition Law with advice from the OECD. The draft law provides for the
creation of a Competition Council to enforce its provisions, and the GOR
intends by end-1992 to draw up an action program for demonopolization or
deconcentration of specific activities (see LDP paragraph 47).
B. Enterprise Financial Discipline
58.   The GOR made a good effort in 1991 to compel enterprise adjustment by
imposing a hard budget constraint on them. Production subsidies were
eliminated except for mines and the railways, monetary policy was very tight
through most of the year, and banks were given greater power and incentive to
say no" to bad loans. This discipline on the part of the GOR, NBR and banks
was undone by enterprise indiscipline with respect to each other (paragraph
18, 36). Tight fiscal and monetary policy will continue, and the GOR will
enforce enterprise financial discipline with legislation, an "early warning"
monitoring system to identify problems quickly, and institutions and
procedures to handle those problems aggressively. The GOR is also developing
a medium-term restructuring strategy and it has commissioned restructuring
studies of specific sectors and individual enterprises.
59.   Legislation.  The Law on Settlement of Outstanding Payments (Law 80)
(paragraph 19) required the OR to submit to Parliament a draft follow-up law
providing for the retirement of the global compensation credits created by the
arrears clean-up and also for the prevention of the recurrence of the arrears
problem. The GOR has now promulgated Decisions 82 and 162 with the force of
law, covering global compensation and enterprise financial discipline, and it
has submitted to Parliament a draft Follow-Up Law to Law 80. This satisfies
arrar adttthe bd ofn    arrers. The
enterprise financial discipline decision requires firms to meet their



20
Enterprise ef.orm Package
:.  EnterDrise Environment
A.- Prices
Enterprises now face meaningful price signals.  The exchange rate was devalued and unified
*n November, 1991; a nearly complete pass-through of wortd market prices is being effected.  Most
notably, energy prices paid by enterprises reftect the world market, except for natural gas.  The
i.atural gas price has been raised by about 300 percent, but it remains only about 55 percent of the
price of imports from the CIS. The SAL would require 10 percent quarterly increases in real terms.
Interest. rates were more than doubled on January 1, 1992, but remain negative in real terms.  The
&C intends that future interest rates will reflect expected inftation.
; .   Legal Framework
The legal framework for the transition to a market economy is largely in place.  (See also
..Co"petitIon and Enterprise Liquidation below.)
C.;t  gCmetton
The 6OR intends to present to Parliament shortly a draft Competition Law.
-s.- ..  D.Trade
Quantitative restrictions on imports have largely been removed and a new import tariff
schadu We with low rates took-effect January 1, 1992.  Tariffs for 1992 are so low, in fact, that the
World.Bank has recommended an increase.  Export bans and quotas are being drastically reduced.
* t. Hard budaet constraint
. .  Enterprise Financial Disciptine
t-.  ..    . In order to distourage the buildup of new arrears, the GOR has (1) issued decisions with.
force of law nd presented to Parliament draft legislation establishing the rights of creditors
-`:nd providing recourse in the event of nonpayment; (2) established a monthly monitoring system to
E .catch .e.nterprtse problems early; and (3) implemented a process for restructuring or liquidation for
nterprises in-danger. of accumulating8unacceptable arrears.
B. .Enterorise Li-u1dation and Restructuring
: 1. Anew Bankruptcy Law-has been submitted to Parliament.
2.  The Law on Settlement of Outstanding Payments (Law 80) passed by Parliament in
Oceeber, 1991 # provides six months for.enterorises to pay their arrears.  If these obligations
Are" t.paid When scheduled, creditors may:subject the'debtors to. bankruptcy or restructuring.  Law
80 Is reinforcedaby subsequent-decisiors and legisistion (see II.A.1. above)..
.3.  Smtl nearly" privatizations would permit sale.of enterprise subunits for the value of
;.hy4y s.icil assets;: liquidation could follow.
..4. ..The GOR. is deVetoping. a-restructuring strategy including-determination of the role of
te  t.ate, .the role of Baiks anid the financinr sources.
:::   : The SAl.would require subsector restructuring studies for chemicets, machine building
d metallurgy*.-Four specif.ic ptoblem enterprises would be singled out for special studies also.
; :..Inarticipation of priv tation,.most-enterprises have been restructured as romercial.
It :.joint.stock companies slated for privatization snd inelifibte for subsidies.
State: riterprise Councils have been created to exercise the State's Qwnership function pending.,.
priv$Sa.t.1izat.l.on..:  ..    
T  Pri'vatizatitonLar   promulgated inAugust, .1991, provides for-early -pilotw
p.,.r..l!v,a$tiations. of medlu ( and large.Commercial Companies, and for earty "smallt privatizations of
i>>: iWt4dits ofo nterpris$es.  Thirty:CCs haVe been selected for early "pilot" privatizations and ove*r
3000 Its for earl.y ."iall"privatizations.  The first privatizations have already occurred.



21
obligations in the order of the due dates, regardless of who the creditor is.
Firms can be declared insolvent when payments are 30 days overdue. After an
additional 30-day review period, debtors can be subject to forced repayrant,
including through bankruptcy proceedings.  In addition, asl afis  tranch
condition. a neu BankruoScv Law has been Dresented to Parliament  Pending its
passage the existing commercial code can be used to enforce bankruptcies. See
LDP paragraph 52. These laws and decisions break new ground in Romania, and
shortcomings in them will undoubtedly become apparent over time. The COR
intends to continue to develop further laws and regulations over time as
needed to enforce financial discipline.
60. Monitoring f ystem. As a Board 2rsentation ,c,rdition, the GOR,has put
in 2samcie,a   x earlyrwa,rnino" monito2rag syXstgM acce,table to the Ban,kto
trigfer direct goveMuntal Action whe,nit,is warranted (see LDP paragraph
55). The monitoring system relies primarily upon enhancements of existing
reporting systems to compile monthly information on enterprise financial
performance, especially: arrears to the banks, other enterprises or the
government; operating losses; and rapid buildup of inventories or goods in
process. The main reporting system for enterprises is operated by the
Accounting Department and Computing Center of the HoEF. In addition to this
core reporting system, the Department of Financial Control is preparing a
report on the use of compensation credits and the reported causes for the
arrears. Prospective difficulties will also be reported by the recently
installed State Enterprise Councils.
61. As part of the general reporting system that began in 1991, enterprises
provide the MoEF with operating accounts on a monthly basis, balance sheets on
a quarterly basis, and more detailed accounts on an annual basis. The system,
designed with the technical assistance of French experts, covers the
statistical requirements of NoEF Departments (Tax Administration, Budget,
Accounting, Control, and Public Debt) as well as the line ministries, the
National Commission for Statistics and the National Agency for Privatization.
The reporting system is comprehensive, including about 6,000 state
enterprises, both RAs and CCs. This data is used in periodic reports on the
financial indicators of state enterprises according to branch, ministry and
source.
62.   lonitoring of the repayment of Law 80 guaranteed credits (see also
paragraph 19) will be primarily the responsibility of the commercial banks,
which are to report to the MoEF through the NBR. In addition, the MoEF system
will be modified to provide monthly information for the next six months on the
compensation credits. The reporting system provides detailed information on
total loans from the banking system, in addition to the Law 80 credits.
Arrears on loans from the banking system will be reported and will be
identified by age in three categories: over 30 days overdue, over 90 days and
over one year. The buildup of new arrears will be reported on a monthly basis
for: domestic suppliers (interenterprise arrears), foreign suppliers, other
credits (includes salary arrears and payments out of payroll accounts) and
foreign services (e.g. freight charges). Overdue payments to domestic
suppliers will be reported according to age, similar to arrears to banks.



22
63.  State Action. In the majority of arrears cases, creditors will be
expected to pursue the remedies available under the law, including the
bringing of bankruptcy actions against debtors. In addition, the largest,
most important arrears problems will be considered by the Cabinet or by a sub-
Cabinet group it selects on a case-by-case basis. The Cabinet will have a
variety of tools available for resolving the problems of the defaulting
enterprises, including accelerated privatization, full or partial liquidation,
directed labor shedding, management changes, and financial restructuring.
Substantial indications that such actions are being taken will satisfy the
scond tracecniinta  te01ineette ytmt  etr  n
restructurint and undertake liquidiations in firms that are economically non-
64. Second tranche release would depend on judgments that (a) financial
discipline is being effectively enforced on the enterprises; and (b)
appropriate actions and procedures are being invoked and followed in the cases
where financial discipline slips. Overall financial discipline will be
evaluated on the basis of one principal ratio: the ratio of arrears of state-
owned enterprises to state-owned enterprise turnover (which would be monitored
monthly as a SAL macroeconomic indicator); treatex
tha. 7.51 (second tranche condition).  The relevant variables are available,
with only a six-week lag, from the enterprise monitoring system. With respect
to actions on specific enterprises, the Bank will need a clear demonstration
that  )aw
Cabiet aoun  s ma be  esieated  to  nfore enero ise finacia
_nterorises to b _nkrtmtcv/liauidation.  Particular attention in this
assessment will be given to the largest, most important problem cases.
Specifically, the Bank and GOR will agree on a group of examples to be
monitored during the life of the SAL program. The group will include the
enterprises with the largest operating losses, the largest global compensation
credits, and the largest current arrears.
65. Restructuring stratey9. As the year progresses, and as firms face
hard budget constraints, an increasing number of enterprises can be expected
to experience difficulties. Many of these enterprises should be candidates
for liquidation. However, some enterprises will be suffering from temporary
9 The government role in enterprise restructuring comprises: (a)
operational restructuring, i.e. the way enterprises are organized and managed
(partial liquidations, divestitures, changes in management and management
structure, and labor force reductions); (b) financial restructuring, meaning
especially cleaning up balance sheets; and (c) technical restructuring,
meaning upgrading capacity, usually through new investments. In this report,
and in discussions with the Romanian government, we explicitly exclude
consideration of new investments. *Restructuring is used in the narrow sense
of operational and financial restructuring.



23
and not fatal problems, where a judicious blend of temporary support,
accompanied by sound restructuring, could place the affected unit on a
competitive footing. While the government considers privatization as the
first best solution for dealing with enterprises, it realistically recognizes
that privatization of many enterprises will take time and, in any event, some
enterprises will need to be restructured before they are in a condition to be
privatized.
66.    The Bank and the GOR have, over many months, discussed the principles
that should guide the development of a restructuring strategy. Agreement has
been reached on the following:
(i) Restructuring should essentially be designed and implemented at the
enterprise level.
(ii) Enterprises should enter the restructuring process either
(a) voluntarily,
(b) as part of bankruptcy proceedings (if appropriate) or
(c) if the government, in exercising its ownership functions, so
decides.
giii) In certain sectors and sub-sectors, it is possible that most or
all enterprises might face difficulties. Such industries could include
metallurgy, machine-building, refineries and segments of the chemical
industry. In these cases, individual enterprise restructuring should be
considered in the context of broader sectoral realignment, toward which
the government should first conduct comprehensive subsector studies to
establish appropriate strategies for downsizing, before individual
enterprise restructuring is embarked upon.
(iv) The enterprise development fund that has been established by the
government should not be used to subsidize the losses of enterprises; it
should rather be used to help develop restructuring plans.
(v) Enterprises which develop restructuring plans should present these
for financing to the banks. If the banks decline to finance the plans,
the enterprises should be liquidated. Under no circumstances should
restructuring finance be used to bail out firms which cannot ultimatW.y
hope to survive.
67.  Restructuring studies.  The Ministry of Industry in Romania has already,
with PHARE and IBRD assistance, nominated the chemical, metallurgy and
machine-building sectors for immediate, detailed analyses with a view to
developing sub-sectoral rationalization programs. It has also, again with
IBRD assistance, agreed to select a number of major enterprises for immediate
development of liquidation/restructuring plans.
C. Privatization and Private Sector DeveloRment
68.   Changes in the ownership structure of the economy are a fundamental
component of the Romanian reform program. The passage of an agricultural land
law has resulted in the transfer so far of about 65 percent of formerly state-



24
controlled land into private ownership. About 50 percent of the housing stock
has already been sold to private owners. Finally, a sweeping Privatization
Law was passed in July 1991, mandating the distribution of 30 percent of the
assets of commercial companies free to the population. The law establishes
five mutual funds (known as Private Ownership Funds or POFM) to serve as
conduits for this distribution. The remaining 70 percent of assets are to be
held initially by a State Ownership Fund (SOF), and the law establishes that
50 percent of the SOF's holdings must be transferred to private hands within
three years. The SOF is to disappear entirely in seven years. A National
Agency for Privatization (NAP) has been managing the process of developing the
strategy and shepherding the necessary legislation through Parliament. It is
now developing the statutes governing the operation of the mutual funds and
the SOF. These institutions are to be established by July 1, 1992.
69. Law 54 legalized small private enterprises in 1990, and over 200,000
firms have been licensed. Several tens of thousands of these firms are now in
business, perhaps 80 percent in distribution and retail sales where capital
requirements are low. The law, passed soon after Romania's revolution,
contained unnecessary constraints on small enterprises. However, these
constraints are easily circumvented by private businesses because of
provisions in more recent legislation, and they are having no apparent effect
on the way business is conducted. Practical constraints need to be addressed
through an active program of promoting and facilitating new ventures. Private
sector development i well-supported in Romania, with PHARE, EBRD, USAID and
many PVOs active.
70. The proposed SAL would support the implementation of the privatization
strategy by: first, broadening the coverage of the enterprises available for
privatization; and second, supporting a fast-track route of early
privatizations. Other planned operations would provide follow-up support to
the SOP and POFs.
71.   Coverag.  Early in the reform program, the government classified all
enterprises as either autonomous public sector enterprises (regies autonomes--
RAs) or commercial companies (CCs). In concept, RAs, by and large, include
companies that would normally be regarded as public utilities; while
commercial companies are enterprises that in market economies would usually be
found in the private sector. RAs are eligible for public subsidies and are
not intended to be privatized. During the conversion process, several hundred
RAs were created at the national and local levels as compared to about 6000
CCs. The criteria used to classify enterprises as RAs appear to have been
excessively broad.  As a BAoad gXresentati_on gonditio. the gOR h,as desg&ated
An office to1 be 2eDOnS.  As a m r ,second tranc,e condLtonLg  the GOR will
detemrmie obiective cteria acceDtable tgo the Bank fgr RA desin8na.ion. and
initiat-e a  xroce,ss for conErting RAs not meeting these criteria into CCs.
(See LDP paragraph 63).
72. Early Privatizations. The Privatization Law provides for privatizations
in advance of the operation of the SOP and POFs. These early privatizations
include both small and large enterprises. Sales of sub-units of larger
enterprises, called 'small privatizations-, are envisaged to comprise entities
such as shops, restaurants and workshops.  Al acondiJtion of Board



25
presentation. the GR has chasiUed a list 2f overml.000 ,     h candi,da tes ;fo
earlyriv,a,tizatiton and of,f,eedforsale over 250 entities.  The GOR intends
to privatize several hundred of these candidates each month until they have
all been privatized; as a seondi tranche condition. the bulk of these small
Drivatizations must be comolete.   (See also LDP paragraph 14.)
73.   As a Board  res,entation conditoan. thirLy m.egdm and larte-sca1e
nternriggs have alsog been identLfied for early "gilt" Drivttizatigns, and
ten firms have been DRepae,d fgr sale via auctio  neuotiated sale. or
mnagement or emDloe,e bauy-out, The thirty firms were chosen from a number of
sectors and were selected on the basis of above-average performance measured
by a variety of indicators. The NAP is receiving considerable international
assistance (e.g. from Britain and the US) in preparing these firms for
privatization. The GOR intends to complete the first ten "pilot"
privatizations in the next few months and, in satisfacti,onof a second tranche
condition, tog greare another ten firms for medium- and larue-scale "ilot"
rivLaytizatigns,  (See LDP paragraph 59).
74. The Workings of the SOP and the POFs. The Privatization Law created the
SOF as the holder, on behalf of the state, of 70 percent of the shares of
commercial companies. The SOF is to act as the owner of these enterprises.
It will receive dividends on its portfolio holdings. It can initiate
restructuring or liquidation proceedings, and it is also required to reduce
its portfolio over time. To this end, it must develop annual plans for
privatization and submit them to the government. The five POFs were created
to serve as intermediaries for the holdings of the 30 percent of shares to be
received by eligible citizens. It is intended that the five POFs will
initially be about the same size by value, and that at the outset they will
not own shares in the same firms. After the initial allo^ation of the shares
of CCs, the five POFs will issue certificates of ownership to the population;
every eligible citizen will receive a certificate from each POF. POFs have
been given the power to sell enterprises on behalf of POF shareholders and the
SOF.
75. A great deal of work remains to be done to establish these institutions.
To begin with, the statutes defining the functions, roles and manner of
operation have to be drafted. There is potential here for a great deal of
confusion and overlapping mandates. For this reason the NAP has sought
international assistance to help define the terms under which these
institutions will operate. Next, the SOF and the POFs need to be staffed and
readied for operations. The shares of the commercial companies have to be
distributed among the SOP and the several POFs. Certificates of ownership
have to be distributed to the population indicating their ownership of the
POPs. Arrangements for the tradeability of POF shares must also be made. The
GOR intends that the SOF and POFs will be operational by mid-1992 (see IDP
paragraphs 60 and 61).



26
V. Social Safety Net
76.  Romania began the reform program with a reasonably well developed system
of family benefits and pensions, and a program of social assistance directed
to the needy. -Building on these long-established systems, an unemployment
compensation scheme was introduced in February, 1991. In concert, all of
these schemes will help cushion adjustment costs for individuals and families.
However, each scheme has its own particular shortcomings.10 The goal of SAL-
supported actions with respect to the social safety net is to better target
expenditures without increasing the burden on the budget. The SAL will
support improved consistency of immediate financing needs with overall
financial stability in the short run, while bringing attention to the longer-
term issues that need to be addressed.
77. Support to the uneragplgyd. In early 1991, Parliament legislated an
unemployment benefit scteme providing income support, job information
services, and retraining benefits. While the initiation of the program was a
positive development, the law has a number of deficiencies. First, the scheme
includes two groups that add substantially to the cost of the scheme, but that
have a weak rationale for inclusion: school leavers and the other new entrants
to the labor force. As a  ondion of Board presenation   the GOR has
oMnensation for schoollaes(trii  ih19   rdae)adetat  to
--he labor forc(see LDP paragraph 65). Second, the eligibility ceiling on
outside income from agriculture is too low, and could exclude many deserving
laid-off workers whose families received a small plot of land in the land
reform. Third, "technical unemployment" benefits have been granted by the GOR
to over 400,000 workers in firms allegedly affected by energy or other input
shortages. Such benefits were justified as an emergency measure in 1991, but
the supply of energy to industry, while not unlimited, is now more dependable,
and commercial companies should take revponsibility for managing the supply of
inputs and their own labor force. Accordingly, this unemployment category has
now been eliminated.
78. Social assistance. A system of social assistance is the ultimate safety
net for persons who have insufficient income to meet their basic human
needs -- for example, persons who are ineligible for unemployment benefits, or
whose eligibility has expired. During the next twelve months, the priorities
in this area are to (i) establish a minimum level of household income (poverty
line) as a benchmark for setting minimum benefits, and (ii) expand eligibility
for locally-administered social assistance (mainly the free meals program) and
cash assistance for those whose incomes fall below the threshold. The GOR
intends to expand targeted social assistance to benefit those passing an
agreed means test (see LDP paragraph 70). The program includes an expansion
of existing programs for special groups (e.g., the handicapped), vouchers for
in-kind assistance (e.g., food coupons, housing allowances), and cash
assistance to bring families' incomes up to the poverty line. The government
10 For a full analysis see Romania -- AccelerAting the Transition: Human
Resource Strategies for the 1990s, 9577-RO dated October 21, 1991.



27
intends that this program will be coordinated with the removal of price
stsbsidies for basic household services such as heating and public transport
(paragraph 45).
79.   Family benefits.  The COR currently provides support to families with
children through (a) a 20 percent reduction in wage taxes for any worker who
has ever had children; and (b) a cash benefit payable to those who work in the
state sector or are unemployed. These family benefits should be revised to
eliminate wasteful spending and free up funds for targeted assistance to the
poor. It is not efficient to retain both the cash allowance and the wage tax
credit for families, and a choice should be made between the two approaches.
With either approach, only families with children under a certain age (16, for
example) should be made eligible for the benefit, which should be equal for
all children. Reform should also include eliminating the birth grant and
pensions for mothers of large families.  As a second tranche condition. the
fovrnmnt illaot asysem  atifacor  toR the ank for nrovidi
unvrsal                            IIAr frfmliswt   aulfie  hlrn  defin   ualifvin@
chilren  s areedwit  th   Bak  Dand  inmimn   ytmt   ii   h  family
benefi transfer navments to 2 Dercent of GDP by end-1992 (see LDP paragraph
69).
80.   Pension sstem.  The elderly constitute a group particularly vulnerable
to rapid economic change, and the pension system is an important element in
their protection. The current pension system provides very low benefits at a
relatively young retirement age. It is actuarially unsound, administratively
complex, and is becoming unaffordable. The existence of separate pension
funds for different occupations serves as a barrier to labor mobility. Some
of the funds are unfinanceable in the medium term, and the low retirement age
discourages labor force participation. These characteristics make pension
reform a concern for efficient labor market development, for medium-term macro
stability, and for the development of an effective social safety net. A
comprehensive reform of the pension system is planned following detailed study
of what is required (see LDP paragraph 66 and following).
81.  Sigk layea. In the past, the state bore the full cost of workers'
salaries when they were out sick.     a    d        ofBa  ba.
ORhas no   eeoe     rea  t   ubaue  nldn  transfern   h
This will give enterprises an incentive to discourage unjustified absences.
(See LDP paragraph 71).
VI. Medium-Ter Outlook_ External Financing Needs. and Creditworthiness
82.  Romania is undertaking a far-reaching internal reform program at the
same time that a major external mArket -- the CMEA -- has collapsed, and with
disappointing international support. While the adjustment that is occurring,
and the comprehensive nature of the Romanian reform effort, provide a basis
for restored growth and creditworthiness, domestic policy reform alone will
not be sufficient to support a sustained recovery. Support from the
international financial iwntitutions -- particularly the World Bank and the
IMF -- will be needed to provide the resources to supplement the domestic
adjustment and investment efforts. The value of the accompanying technical



28
assistance, analysis, and advice is multiplied in the context of Romania's
years of isolation and sparse experience with the functioning of a market
economy.
83.   By end-1991, Romania's GDP had fallen, relative to 1989, by about 20
percent in real terms, following a 6 percent decline in 1988-89. The annual
flow of fixed investment fell by a cumulative 60 percent in real terms.
Exports, weakened by the collapse of the CMEA and loss of the Iraqi and other
West Asian markets, fell by about 60 percent, while imports fell by about 35
percent (Table 2). After several years of surpluses, Romania ran current
account balance of payments deficits of 8.6 percent of GDP in 1990 and 3.5
(5.6 percent based on customs data) percent of GDP in 1991. Successive price
liberalizations, by end-1991, effected a change in the domestic price level to
about three times the level at end-l990. The unification of the exchange rate
in the final quarter of 1991 resulted in an interbank market exchange rate of
lei 180/$ compared with 15 in 1989, before the reform and stabilization
programs were set in train; the rate subsequently climbed to about lei 200/$
and the rate at legal retail exchange offices was lei 330-360/$.
84.   In the medium term, the policy reforms that the authorities have
introduced are expected to result in increased productivity and the
restoration of growth. The impulses to growth are expected to come
essentially from two mutually interacting sources; (a) efficiency gains; and
(b) a supply response to changes in incentives. The greatest efficiency gains
are expected from the industrial sector as a result of improved resource
allocation and increased efficiencies in plant operations. The closure of
nonviable enterprises (particularly those producing negative value-added), and
the shutting down of unprofitable product lines, are necessary steps in the
reorganization of production. Over the medium term, resources can be expected
to be reallocated away from heavy industry towards the production of light
manufactures and consumer goods. The two major sources of operational
efficiencies emanate from reduced use of energy and the shedding of redundant
labor. The supporting policy environment has been put into place, through
appropriate energy pricing, hardening of enterprise budget constraints and the
provision of unemployment compensation, to stimulate substantial improvements
in competitiveness in the coming years. In the medium term wider access to
foreign investment and international experience, know-how, and technologies
will be the key to reducing unit-costs and increasing productivity and
competitiveness; in this, access to international finance will be of great
importance. While efficiency gains can yield substantial growth dividends,
there are further areas in which a more direct supply response can be
expected. Agriculture in Romania should, given an appropriate policy
environment, grow rapidly and the service sector, traditionally neglected, has
considerable potential for expansion into personal and business lines,
especially tourism. Growth in these areas, and in new manufacturing
enterprises, is likely to be particularly stimulated by new private sector
entrants, and by privatization efforts.,
It For a full discussion of the potential sources of growth in the
Romanian economy, see Chapter V of the CEN.



29
85.   A projected trajectory for growth, adjustment and the build-up of
external liabilities is provided in Tables 2 and 3. The very tentative nature
of these projections must be underlined. Only preliminary figures for 1991
are reported by this time of the year. The purpose here is to illustrate a
plausible and consistent path of adjustment.
86.   The scenario presented below is based on a number of plausible
assumptions about the stance of policy. The scenario presumes continued
adherence to a stabilization program, including tight fiscal and monetary
policies and a strict incomes policy. This would lead to a reduction in
inflation to an annualized rate of 40 percent at end 1992, and reduced rates
thereafter. It also presumes that the government will pursue the rapid
privatization of small-scale enterprises; the development of an efficient
banking sector; the closing down of nonviable enterprises, accompanied by the
implementation of programs for sectoral and enterprise restructuring; and the
delivery of unemployment and other social benefits. Finally, an effective
program to reduce the energy intensity of production is also assumed. As
discussed earlier, most of the legal and policy framework for these conditions
is already in place, and the government intends to implement this program. In
the event that these assumptions are not entirely borne out, the consequences
would be lower growth and higher inflation. Some compression of growth in
consumption and investment could occur without necessarily raising the
external deficit.
87. In the scenario presented here, industrial output would continue to fall
in 1992 up to 1994, as the sector continued the shakeout of uncompetitive
activities. Production would grow slowly thereafter -- at between 2-4 percent
a year, as the opposing forces of a shrinking heavy industry sector and a
growing light industry and consumer good sector operated. Agriculture holds
substantial promise, and the sector is expected to grow by about 3-4 percent a
year after 1993 (higher growth could be anticipated to occur as early as 1993,
except that the major land reform in progress is inhibiting short-term growth
and there is uncertainty about external markets). The services sector,
virtually neglected under socialist planning, is expected to grow more rapidly
after 1994, with growth rising to about 4-5 percent p.a. in 1996-2000. (See
Table 2.) By 2000, the shares of GDP would be agriculture, 21 percent;
manufacturing industry, 40 percent; and services, including construction and
trade, 39 percent. For comparison, the shares in 1989 were agriculture, 11
percent; manufacturing industry, 60 percent; and services, 29 percent.
88. The demand impulses for growth are expected to be more muted.
Internally, fixed investment declined in 1991, to about 16 percent of GDP, in
the wake of the ongoing stabilization program. Thereafter, fixed investment
would remain at 16-17 percent of GDP, allowing for the rehabilitation of
existing capital stock -- particularly in energy-saving investments, expansion
of light industries, and maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
The level of consumption, after a 14 percent decline in 1991, is expected to
remain unchanged in 1992 with minimum growth of 0.3 percent in 1993, before



30
recovering to a per capita trend growth of about 3-4 percent per annum in the
rest of the decade.2 In short, considerable
economic restructuring and adjustment is concentrated in the next five years,
after which the basis is established for higher, sustained, long-term
improvements in standards of living.
89. Externally, the economy's convertible currency terms of trade would
remain roughly the same through the decade.13 Great uncertainty, of course,
attends the development of the ex-CMEA markets. In this scenario, no growth
is axpected from these markets and, indeed, by end-1991, Romania's trade is
expected to have already become very largely oriented to convertible currency
markets. Exports, starting from a considerably diminished base, are projected
to grow by 5-6 percent per annum in real terms through the decade. This
export growth assumes an active exchange rate policy, following the exchange
rate unification and devaluation in November 1991, and strong export promotion
and market development efforts. Exports would include traditional exports to
convertible currency markets, in particular of agricultural goods and of
tourism. Imports, constrained initially in 1991-93 by insufficient external
financing, after slow recovery in 1993 are expected to grow at 3-4 percent per
annum through the decade.
90.   The financing gap associated with this scenario would average $0.2
billion per annum in the five years 1992-97 -- assuming major financing
contribution by the EC, the DMF and the IBRD; after 1997 they would average
$1.0 billion per year. Interest on debt accumulated to finance these deficits
would engender current account deficits averaging $1.2 billion in 1992-97 (6
percent of GDP), again along a declining trend; current account deficits
thereafter would amount to an average $1 billion per annum, or about 3 percent
of GDP.
91.   Financin; and Debt Burden.  Table 3 summarizes a financing plan attached
to this scenario. Between 1992 and 1995, by far the greatest burden would be
borne by multilateral and bilateral lenders, who are anticipated to provide
some 69 percent of the $4.8 billion financing required. The presumption here
1 For most of the eighties total consumption in Romania, as measured in
the National Income and Product accounts, was about 65 percent of GDP,
investment was about 30 percent, and net exports registered a surplus of about
5 percent of GDP. This pattern is very different from other middle income
countries where total consumption typically is about 78-81 percent of GDP,
gross investment is about 20-22 percent of GDP and external deficits are of
the order of 1-4 percent of GDP. In 1990 large wage increases were given in
Romania, and consumption ratcheted upwards; in 1991 consumption declined, but
the fall in national income meant a rise in the ratio of consumption to GDP
(see Table 2). These ratios now approximate the experience of other countries
at similar levels of income.
13 Very little is known about prospective changes in CMEA terms of
trade. In these projections, it is assumed that the external prices faced by
the economy are international convertible currency prices, i.e., full
adjustment to international prices is achieved in the first half of 1992.



31
is that Romania's return to the private capital markets as a creditworthy
borrower will be slow to develop. The largest lenders from 1992-95 would be
(a) the SC and bilaterals with $1.7 billion (of which $0.8 billion is expected
in 1992); (b) the I1F with $1.7 billion; and (c) the IBRD, with $1.1 billion.
The remaining financing is expected to come from the EBRD, direct foreign
investment, with modest remaining gaps to be filled by suppliers' credits.
92. Several points may be made in connection with the level and presumed
distribution of financing. First, these requirements are considerably below
the requirements that were estimated in similar exercises in late 1990 and in
mid-1991. Current account deficits of closer to $2.0 billion a year for
several years were then being projected as a measure of the balance of
payments need. The estimates here are more conservative, in part because a
better sense of the impact of the demise of the CMEA is now available; in
part, because the size of resource deficits has been, to an extent,
constrained by the judgement that finance will not be easily available to
Romania; and, in part, because the decline in domestic activity was far deeper
and far more rapid in 1991 than originally imagined. Second, the overall
financing gaps are projected to average $250 million per year to 1996 -- sums
which can most likely be filled by short-term import financing. These
relatively small gaps are, of course, made possible by assuming a very
prominent multilateral and bilateral presence. Should this financing not
materialize, the gaps to be financed would widen. Put differently, the
importance of the IMF and the IBRD to Romania's continuing adjustment and to
the success of the reform program cannot be overemphasized.
93.   The overall debt burden should pose no particular issue.  As seen in
Table 4, there would be a fairly rapid buildup of debt to about $7.5 billion
by 1995, after which the debt grows to $14 billion by the year 2000. Debt to
GDP and debt to export ratios would stay around 37 and 100 percent,
respectively, and the debt service ratio would peak in 1998 at just over 17
percent, declining to 16.5 percent in 2001.
94.  However, preferred creditors will account for a large share of Romania's
debt, and IBRD will account for a large share of preferred creditors. This
raises the possibility that there may be an IBRD exposure problem even though
the overall debt situation seems manageable. In fact, the total debt service
ratio is so low that debt service due the IBRD is only 2.9 percent of exports
by 2000.
95. Nevertheless, reducing IBRD's share of debt is an important element of
country strategy. In order to help assure broad burden-sharing among official
sources of assistance, IBRD will participate actively in a Consultative Group
meeting to be chaired by the SC in the near future and is also encouraging
cofinancing of IBRD lending operations.  IBRD is also cultivating contacts
with commercial lenders, with a view to accelerating their return to Romania.



32
Table 2: Romania. Key Macroaeconomic indicators
.-----Actual-.....   ----------- -Projectedj------------------------
1990    1991    1992    1993        1994    1995    1996         2001
............... ................................ ,*...................................................................................................... ......
Real Growth Rates                                                                                     (five year
, , , ........................                                                                          average)
Gross Desmtic Product                    -6.2   -13.0    -5.2    -1.8          1.0      2.9      3.5       4.7
Agriculture                             12.5    -1.6    -5.0        1.0       2.5      4.0      4.0       3.7
Industry                               -19.2   -20.6    -7.9    -3.0        '0.7       2.0      3.0       4.6
Services *                               6.4    -8.2    -2.0    -2.0          2.0      3.4      3.7       5.4
Exports of 6RFS                         -46.8   -18.3       5.4      S.0       5.5      5.8      5.8       6.4
Imports of GNFS                         -10.6   -25.1    -4.6        1.5       2.3      2.9      2.9       4.8
Total ConsmAptfan                         9.8   -13.7       0.0      0.3       1.1      1.9      2.5       4.3
Totat investment                         -2.5   -24.4   -23.9   -10.9         -2.3      4.4      4.4       4.7
A-- ctual------  ----------------Projected-------------------------
1990    1991    1992    1993        1994    1995    1996         2001
As a X of GOP
..............................
Total Consauwtion                        ?2.8    76.4    80.4    82.1         82.3    81.5    80.7        79.6
uotal Investment                         34.3    29.7    23.8    21.6         20.9    21.2    21.4        21.6
Saving-Investment GaP 1)                 -9.1    -6.1    -4.2    -1.7         -3.2    -2.7    -2.1        -1.5
Current Account 2)                       -8.6    -5.6    -6.9    -5.9         -5.1    -4.8    -4.4        -3.6
totae  exports of 6RfS                  17.2    16.2    18.0    19.2         20.1    20.7    21.1        22.8
Totat Ioports of GNfS                   26.3    22.6    22.8    23.6         23.9    23.9    23.7        23.8
In millions of USD
... ...................... ................
Resource balance                         *3.4    -1.9    -1.2    -1.1         -1.0    -0.9    -0.8        -0.?
Current account                          -3.3    -1.8    -1.2    -1.2         -1.2    -1.1    -1.1        -1.2
International Reserves In months
of iports of CNFS                         0.5      0.7      1.5      1.9       2.3      2.6      2.7       3.2
....................................................................................................
* Includes construction and transportation.
1) Rest
2) Noidnal



33
Table 3. Nedum-Term Financing Plan
(billions USD)
1992    1993    1994    1995       1996        2001
Exports of GNUS                     5.3       S.8     6.4      7.2      8.0        14.5
Imports of GNFS                     6.5      6.9      7.5      8.1      8.8        15.2
Resouree Delanee                    -1.2    -1.1    -1.1    -0.9    -0.8           -0.7
Current Account                    -1.2    -1.2    -1.2       -1.2    -1.2         -1.2
Interest paid                   0.2      0.3      0.4      0.5      0.6         1.1
................................
Princ.pal Rep. an NLT & INF         0.2      0.3      0.3      0.7      0.8         1.4
Multi lateral                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1         0.5
of which
IhRD                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1         0.3
EC/Silateral                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1         0.1
E8RD                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.1
Private & commercial             0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.1         0.9
Financing Gap                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.6
IMF Repurchases                0.2      0.2      0.2      0.5      0.5         0.0
Change in reserves n.e.i.       0.5       0.3     0.3      0.3      0.2         0.4
(- a decrease)
Errors & Omissions              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0
Total financing needs               2.0      1.7      1.8      2.1      2.1         3.0
................................
Gross Disb. on NLT & INF            2.2      1.5      1.6      1.6      1.5         2.3
Multilateral                      1.4     0.8      0.6      0.5      0.6         0.8
of which
33RD                           0.4      0.5      0.1      0.1      0.2         0.4
EC/Bilateral                   0.8       0.3     0.4      0.2      0.2         0.2
EBRD                           0.1      0.2      0.1      0.2      0.2         0.2
Private & commercial             0.3      0.3      0.6      0.7      0.9         1.5
Finaning gap                   0.0      0.0      0.2      0.2      0.4         1.4
IMF Purchases                  0.5      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.0         0.0
Change in short term (net)         -0.4    -0.1    -0.1        0.2      0.2         0.2
Direct Foreign Investnent           0.2       0.2     0.2      0.3      0.4         0.5
Total Financng Sources              2.0      1.6      1.7      2.1      2.1         3.0
................................



34
tebte 4. Debt Indleot.or
1992     1993      1994     995      1996      199?     1998    1i99        2000      2001
totet Debt (In btillons of WO)                         3.8       S.1       6.4      7.5       8.5      9.5      10.6      11.?      12.9     14.1
total Oebt1SOP                                        21.2      252        7.?     31.2      33.5      34.8     35.?      36.3      36.9     36.8
total OebtlXGS                                        73.o      ".1      97.0    100.9    102.0    102.4    101.4         99.8      98.1     94.7
lnterest paid/CDP                                      1.1       1.5       1.?      2.1       2.4      2.6       2.4       2.5       2.6      2.9
totat Debt ServiceIXGS                                 7.7       9.0      10.6     15.9      16.3      16.3     17.3      16.9      16.4     16.5
'Preferred Debt*t.ott Debt                            41.1      45.9     44.4      42.3      37.2     37.9      36.0      38.2      37.9    3V.1
I3D Debt/lotst Debt                                    9.5      17.5     15.5      14.3      13.6     3.9      13.9      14.0     14.0      13.8
I3R3  Debt/Prelerred Debt                             37.5      57.8     56.9      54.3     62.4      59.9      58.1      57.2     S6&       56.4
BRD Debt Servielw otal. Debt service paid              0.0       5.0     10.0       9.2      12.3     12.0      14.4      15.S     16.4      186.
-3RD Debt ServiejoXes                                  0.0       0.5      0.9       1.5       1.8       1.9      2.4       2.?      2.9       2.9
Preferred Debt Service/ostal Debt Service Paid        54.6      55.0     49.9      59.8      S8.8     49.4      47.6      42.2     32.9      Z9.3
............................................................................. .......................................................................................................____



35
VII. The Proposed Loan
96.  Rationale for the Loan. The Bank's medium-term strategy in Romania is
summarized in paragraph 24. Given Romania's commitment to basic economic
reform, the aotions already taken to that end, and the country's extreme
foreign exchange needs, an early Structural Adjustment Loan is the most
appropriate instrument of World Bank support. This first SAL would support a
package of measures in Romania's transformation to a market economy, and is
designed to establish the foundation of the Bank's continuing policy
discussions with and lending program to Romania.
97.  Loan Deasn and Comonents.  Although the SAL program would cover a wide
range of economic reform issues, explicit conditionality would be concentrated
on stabilization and prices, enterprise reform (especially enterprise
financial discipline and privatization), and the social safety net.
98. Loan Amount. Borrower. and possible Cofinancing. The proposed amount of
the loan is $400 million. The borrower is Romania. The Japanese Export-
Import Bank is considering cofinancing with the World Bank with the amount not
exceeding $100 million equivalent.
99.  Use of Loan Proceeds.  The loan would be utilized for general imports,
except for a standard negative list including military and paramilitary items,
nuclear equipment, uranium, and some luxury goods.
100. Procurement. Procurement would follow tandard practices and would be
in accordance with the provisions for procurement in the Operations Directive
on Adjustment and Other Past-Disbursing Operations, OD 11.00, Section IV.
101.  Diabursemmnt.  The proposed loan would be available In two tranches.
The first tranche, $250 million, would be available upon effectiveness and the
second, $150 million, approximately six months later. Disbursement from the
loan would be made against 100 percent of the cost of eligible imports.
Withdrawal applications for disbursements on contracts of goods of over $1.0
million equivalent would be fully documented. For all other contracts,
disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
providing det&ils of transactions in a given period, certification of payment,
receipt and eligibility of transactions. Retroactive financing of up to $80
million (20 percent of the loan) for expenditures incurred after February 24,
1992, is proposed. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1993.
102. Actions taken prior to Board presentation and formal conditions of
second tranche release are underlined in the text and summarized in the policy
matrix in Annex IV on page 39. The only effectiveness condition is
ratification by Parliament.
103. Link between the Droposed SAL and other Bank Operations. The SAL
touches virtually all aspects of the Romanian economy and therefore of the
Bank's Country Assistance Program. However, the links are strongest to the
TA/Critical Imports Loan, the proposed Industry Restructuring Project, and the
proposed Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan. The technical
assistance loan is financing some of the studies and other actions required by



36
the SAL. The two proposed loans are being designed to deepen and extend the
SAL's objectives, particularly with respect to financial reform, enterprise
financial discipline, and privatization. The SAL is establishing
preconditions for these loans, and they in turn will provide a follow-on to
the conditionality initiated in the SAL.
104. Risks. The primary risk to the proposed SAL is the social tensions that
are inevitably being created by the implementation of the reform program.
Following years of hardship under the prerevolutionary regime, Romanians have
now experienced, and continue to face, declining real wages, falling
consumption, rising unemployment, and the loss of the security and
predictability of socialism without immediate corresponding gains from reform.
It is possible that social tensions could find expression through the politial
system, and that this could set back the reform program. So far, the Romanian
reform program has proceeded well despite the short-term difficulties it has
created. Each Romanian government since the revolution has been committed to
reform. As the political process becomes more sophisticated and parties with
a strong base multiply, the likelihood of coalition government increases and
Parliamentary approval for specific reform measures may well become more
difficult and time-consuming than it has been to date.
105. Monitoring and Imlementation. In order to ensure adequate progress in
undertaking the structural measures supported by the proposed SAL, the Bank,
with the Resident Mission fully involved, will monitor specific indicators on
a monthly and quarterly basis. The indicators are listed in Annex I on page
38.
106. Coordination with IMF. Bank staff participated in preparation and
review of the first Standby Arrangement (April 1991), in the June 1991 Standby
review, in the November 1991 Article IV review, and in the preparation mission
for the second Standby in March 1992. IMF staff participated in the SAL pre-
appraisal mission in December 1991 and the appraisal mission in February 1992.
107. The second IMF operation and the SAL are scheduled to move forward in
parallel. There is now agreement between Romania and the Fund on a Letter of
Intent. A Standby of SDR 314.04 million will be considered by the Fund Board
on May 29, 1992.



37
VIII. R ecommendation
108. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
LewLs Preston
President
Attachments
May 5, 1992
Wasbington, D.C.



38                Annex I. page 1 of 1
Macroeconomic Indicators to be Monitored under SAL
Real GDP Growth
Real Interest Rates
Real WaSe
Real Exchange Rate
Real Export and Import Growth
Rate of Inflation
Broad Money
Domestic Credit
International Reserves
Fiscal Deficit
Social Insurance Benefit Payments
Ratio of Government Subsidies to GDP
Unemployment
Private Sector Share of GDP
Ratio of arrears of state-owned enterprises
to state-owned enterprise turnover
(to be monitored monthly)



39                       Annex II. page  I of 4
Annex II: Policy Matrix, Att LOP Measures
Page references are to LDP, Armex IV
Policy Area          sAL-Spported Program          Board Presentation             Second Tranche
Conditions                  Conditions
systemic snd Structural Reform (peg 2)
Tax reform             Reorient tax structure to
needs of merket economy;
simplify and reduce
prof ts tax; continue
progres toward VAT and
personal 1neome tax.
Expenditure refea      Consolidate extra-
budgetary funds with
state budget for
presentation to
Parti nt.
Cormnser subsidies                                  Adopt time-phased program   Achieve satisfactory
satisfactory to the Bank    progress with respect to
for elimination of          the consuner subsidy
consumer subsidies by       reduction program.
end-1993.
Public investment                                   Undertake a quick review    CoWl te investment
of public investment        review end dfscuss
projects to fdentify        results with Sank;
those that should be        suspend projects with
stopped i,mediately.        inedequate justification.
Designate a unit within     Staff investment unit
goverrment to take          adequately, establish
responsibility for public   work program, elaborate
Investment programaing.     decision criteria.
Complete a more detaled
review by the end of 1992
in preparation for the
1M99 budget.
Discontinue funding for
units two through five of
the Cernavoda nuclear
power plant pending
completion of a
satisfactory study of its
economic Justification.
Finaneial sector       Reduce concentration in
the banking sector by
requiring economic asents
proposing to acquire 10
percent or more of a
bank's shares to inform
NUS. Adopt EC's exposure
guidelines and set
timetable for achieving
theL
Agreculture sector     Coiplete land titling by
end-M1993. Undertake an
analysis of agricultural
prfcing, input supply and
dfstribution, credit and
storao and merketing.



Annex II. page 2 of 4                                40
Ptolicy Arem         SAL-Supported Program         Board Presentation             Second Tranche
Conditions                  Conditions
Labor markets          Contiewe Managing the
minfim agWe in order to
avoid disincentives to
exptoyment.
Analyze practical
obstacles to labor
mobility and foraulate a
tme-bowmd plan to remove
ther by end-1993.
Internationat Trade    Coordinate trade poticies   Reduce the number of         Eliminate r _infng
with wAcroeconomic          goods subject to export      export bans and quotas
policies generally and      bans and quotas by at        except on ubsfdized
indLatrial policies         least 50  relative to       goods or those requiring
specifically.  By end-      end-1991.                    export restraint becauso
1992, eliminate iport                                    of quantitative
and export ticenses,                                     restriction  In importing
except export ltcenses                                   countries.
for goods still sbjoect
to quotas and import
licenses for arnaments,
ueclear materials and
equipment, hazardous
goods, drugs and
narcotics.
Price and Exchange Rate Liberatization (page 7)
Price determination    Contfnu@ reducing the                                     Eliminate limits on
role of the state in                                     prices and marins and
price determination.                                     reduce the advance price
increse netification to
at most 30 days.
Energy prices                                       Raise prices for crude       Maintafn approximate
oil, electricity, coal      parity with world market
and lfgnite to world        prices for primary energy
market and adjust them as products except natural
required to maintain        gas; ncrease price of
approximate parity.         natural gas IOX per
Raise natural gas price     qUarter in reel terms
to at least 55% of price    toward parity with
of Imported Vas.            economic levet.
Macroeconomic Stabilization (page 9)
Macroeconomic policy   Increase macrooe meic        Maintain satisfactory        Maintain satisfectory
framework              consistency, especially      acroeconomic policy         acroeconomic policy
malng trade, ndustrial,    framework as moasured by    fram Aork.
montary and budgetary       aoreed indicators and
policies.                   targets for 1992.
Enterprise Reform (paog 11)
Competition            Present Competition Lao
satisfactory to the Bank
to Parliament by July 1,
1992. Establish
Competition Counc1i to
enforce let. By end-
1M9, draw up an action
program for
demonopolization or
deconcentration of
specific activities.



41                       Annex II. page 3 of 4
Policy Area         IL-41portod Progrm           go"d Presentation             Second Tranche
Conditions                  Conditions
Entorpeieo fin ncial   Pe ativate bankruptcy      Present Bankruptcy Bitt    Isplement system to
discipline             procedure fn the            to Partimaent.             restore and maintain
Comerelal Code pendH          n                        enterprise fin nciat
pass    of thenkrqptcy   Establtish a satisfactory   df siptfne. As needed to
Loa.                       monitoring system to        achieve f nanclal
provide early warning of   discipline, shut darn
Deveop a procedure for    enterprises running into    production lines, reduce
Inform tlomshering         diff iulties                workforces snd undertake
betmeen NEf,  R and                                    liquidations in firm
other concerned agencies.  Submit to Parl1ament a      that are economically
draft bill satisfactory    nan-viable udor have
Develop the courts,         to the Bank containing     faitled to correct
adainistrotive tribunals    measures against firms     arrears.  This mill be
oed other apparatus        that remain in arrears      required to demnnstrate
required to enforce the    and arrangements to         that (f) the follow up to
rights of creditors.       prevent the butld-up of    Law 80 is being
new arrears.               Ifplenented; (ii) actions
are being iplemented
wuder the Bankruptcy Law;
snd (ifi) procedures to
be instituted by the
Cabinet to enforce
finncial discfpline are
being applied.
Lfmit state enterprise
arrears to 7.5 percent of
state percent of state
anterprise turnover.
Earty prfvatization    Ipleeat mas program of   Identify 3.000 units of    Coqplete the bulk of
Realt privatfzatfilns      enterprises for smtall      these small privatizati-
*etrLy' privatizations.     ns.
Offer for ssle at least
20 _mtll
prfvatfsationsU
lplement tSpilotU          Identify 30 mdium and       Prepare an additional 10
privatizatione              large firm  for early      firne for mdii.w and
upilot" privetizetion.     large-scale piflot*
privetizatins.
Prepare 10 firrm for
'pilott privatization via
auction, negotiated sale,
or mnaaement or aployte
buyWout.
POFs oWd SOP           Establish the PO., Issue
guidelines for POf
operations and altocate
CCs to the POFs by July
1, 1992; and distribute
POp Certificates of
Oweship to the Public
by October 31, 1992.
ey July 1. 1992, issue
uidtelines and
regulations governfng the
*Or's operations.



Annex II. page 4 of 4                             42
PotUey Ar           SL-Supprted Prog             soard Presentation           Second Tranch.
Ondition                   Conditions
Private Sector        ForAtate an actien
Develqsnt             progrm for removing
dwntif ied astreints to
private eator
development uod begin
fI_t  ting the ation
pormby S41eptber,
1992.
Regies Autonm         Reexmine enteprise          Besgate an offiee to be  Deterine ibjectivo
olmtf fed as ms to         responsible.                criterfa acceptable to
determine -t r saM                                     the Sa* fo RA
dsould be rectlffted                                  designation nd initiate
CCs.                                                   a proes for conerting
nA  not meting these
criteria into CCs.
Socal protetion (pa   15)
Unalo_swmt                                        Present to  arlint a
coqiosatoen                                       la  that the  ank ogree
wmould eliminate
.ieployent capnsat in
for schoo leaenr,
(starting with 1992
graikates) and entrants
to the labor force.
Penion sytm           Undertake a dta iled
sutt  of the firn"ata
sustainability ad
economic incentives of
the current sytem
Prepore a wAite Paper
(by autun 199) setting
forth the central
element of pensio
reform. Begin to
iple mm t the reform by
y 1, 1993.
Fami ly benefits                                                             Adopt system satisfactory
to the Sank for providing
ulvert uwort for
families with qualtfying
chitdren; dfirne
qualitfying children as
agreed with Ssn4
ioplemnt system to
assure that overall
transfer for this
prpose, including tax
credit, is ltmited to 2
percent of CDP by end-
1992.
Sfck leave                                        Develop prm   to curb
abuse, lncluding
transferrin finanine
burden for first 10 dey
of sick lee from state
to enterpre.



43              ~~~Annex III. page 1 of 2
806cdonSD_F42~~~~~Md                                  m
WumANgoNcS
w_ebwewe                         * i;           9        21g    2                   09IP2   419?3.8
X=s~~~~~~~~~~~%r-                        M                                      6       in
PCq                                                 t                  X4       t        32       2-.8
,Id     d  _A                                                          3       2
_rwim                                                      1 . . ....
= E~~~~~~~~~~~~if" p"&                             34b   22  29b  29S   3.6
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir                                             15.      17.i   t,2S9.5    237S19$
._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 44.3                                     218 46504Q         3.74     3.104
-w100~~~~~~~~~~~~~g _n                    1Q   18-    *-                         *-       -
X               %it;ilg           Z       s3        457~~~~~~44.  3  A3  49S   41t.3
q. -    w        2S       238      2,17t    22,7m0 79. 7 98
-  )                     g  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61  R!                70A      6.       68.3
TaLoolc                               100 1
d   -Wh  _e -W *~~~~~~~~~S                  7 _3t
WN_  4_.                                                   448-                01      U         0



44
Annex III. page 2 of 2
Roma_l
SodaN Iadatoevdopmea, 1V9142
25.30      15.20      ret_                  Loer        hiehe
Unit.!  ywa      ywa       ag-tamo                .sdde.      mo
Amex"        3         eO         (Me)       Ewope      anew.       growp
INCOH ANDPOVERY 
GNPpavc*pM(mnr1990)                          US$                ..         ..       1A20          ..      1,530      3,450
T   ntp20d ofhwubld
u spM 4ObUf hosDods                       d     i              ..        ..          ......
rs  pM 20Ut ho househ                        a   ..                                  ..
Shmtobw20td %1           o.                                              .           .          ....
Abeonpovuty bmexme: utbon               US$ prpuon              ..         ..         .....
mo                                         ..         ..          .. . ..
Pqp.  dabopatpovyae u                      % of.                ..         ..         ...
,.zra'                                      ..         ..*..                              ..
Pumalmaos of sabuziuition (wider5)        of Sgepr              ..         ..         .....
voow                                      %*(GDP                         19.1
M        .6mak.dmess                                                   9.1
noa                            dsaP-scZ_               i        10228      1.137      9,923      38,868     39.280
Fod almsmals                                 *                 .        123  
Food pudee~oa peraas a               1979-1=100          67.1        842        89.1      101.        98.9       1060
=Tqmu=D';rDP                             e%ofGDP                            .        180        12.2    16.8           9.0
aiceJabies                            caleu perpn            2.98       3.7S       3.155       3,446      2.780      3.013
Dai8pgsuMSUy                       gznsppers              89          98        * 96        99          72         77
l    eiag                                 %ofGDP                ..        3.7         ..
A=    bouehold size                   penom per ho.... ..
11th...                                                                    ........
Fined meout housing                       S aofGDP              ..         ..          .
Fud and p_rw                              S of GDP              ..        1.           ..A
enqpercapu              kIg foil.cquvam      1,535.7    2.725.5    3,6233      2,685.0   .1102.      1.794.4
%efh                   ..          ..         ..h..s.                           .
Rood                                                           ..         _.         .._...
Tran9wandouumfatlcb                       %ofGDP                ..        3.6         ..
Faerpncar                               p...                                      19          11         24         11
haed_:egumoda ipm                      CatMP                 ..       2.8           ..                    ..
pqapsrsh        nk e                                            ..                72,816
EnVWTAIN HUMAN CAPRAL
Ms       e        .                        V.IdG                ..        2.8         ..          ..         ....
Pmiipwr.pbysicium                                                                Mi~m 60.   6  544
DWI*                                                 400         430         ..
bospital bed
-Acc      dtob e 2 os       ssof.                               ..         ..    10.0
Aee.us      2mahu;p                      * V.ofaqegroup                             46 s  79.0  87.1      65.3       78&.
(ude 1 mntDpTr                                    ..                     oo6      90.1        67.1       81.5
01 Redydsutio Tnpy use (woetrS)            V of a..                        ..          ..         ..       39.8
LiAmas                                     %elGDP               ..        3.0          ..
Pdmw.totd                           % of  nl.8gepgou        101.0      107.0       95.0       101.0      100.5      105.9
fi 'os                                              100.0      107.0        95.0       ".7        97.4
seon:ew 'lo                                                 39.0        687                               58.3       563
fwk                                                  O 320    66.0        92.0       706        56.5       58.9
Ta .aIy                               lbofatiay sadsm         38.1       48.4        70.2         ..         ..          .
popilspsuad            23          20         21         2            62
^,pitSio p^                                          p 219  1 7       16          24         18 
Pupib wshiu gpsde 4                      *of aboh..               89.8         ..        97.7       86.7       77.8
reo_r.=e.oftosalrtrUIofM                               6.1          ..        1.8        5.2         6.6       17.6
IlinmXs:0vey                           V of pop. (Af IS+.                              ..         ..       22.9        15.1
f  off6m01  el.                       ..         ..         ..       28.8        17.7
Ngw _"wdpm prhApop.                                          1573       1292        186.       174.7      ?72         100.9
s_w= WOo                           D_ .   19A 2



45                Annex IV: page 1 of 17
Romania
Ministry of Economy and Finance
May 4, 1992
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    Romania seeks a Structural Adjustment Loan of $400 million equivalent in
support of its economic reform program. The main components of this program
are described in this Letter of Development Policy.
I. Introduction
2.    The objectives of transition in Romania are similar to those in the
other formerly socialist countries: democracy (political freedom) and a market
economy (economic freedom). The means by which Romania is attempting to
attain these objectives is also similar: respect for fundaaental human rights;
political pluralism; the holding of free and correct elections; separation of
the powers of the state; and reform of the systems of justice and public
administration. To establish economic freedom, Romania is pursuing
fundamental structural reform in essential fields, for example: development of
the private sector; liberalization of wages and labor market development;
foreign trade reform; banking reform, creation of a money market, and
development of financial market institutions; and fiscal reform. Pursuit of
these objectives presupposes the realization of a modern system of social
protection and reform of the education and health systems. These objectives
will lead to realization of a society that guarantees liberty and fundamental
human rights for its citizens, and an economy based on criteria of efficiency
and competitiveness. This is the only way we can guarantee a halt in the
present deterioration in the standard of living and the rekindling of economic
growth.
3.    Although Romania has much in common with the other formerly socialist
countries in transition, it is also unique in a number of respects. Romania
entered the transition through an abrupt and bloody social revolution. Given
the nature of the political dictatorship that prevailed in Romania, this was
the only way change could begin. But this meant the simultaneous breakdown,
overnight, of political, economic, and social life in Romania; during a period
of less than a month, an economic system based on hypercentralism and
universal state ownership collapsed. The majority of the population had been
cut off from communication with outsiders and had little understanding of the
workings of democracy or a market economy.
4.    Another respect in which Romania is unique is that the present
transition that began with revolution two years ago was not the first jolting
shock administered to the economy within a decade. Those tempted to make
simplistic comparisons between Romania and other reforming economies should



Annex IV: page 2 of 17               46
bear in mind that its transition is following years of economic mismanagement
and repression created by the obsession of the pre-revolution regime with
retiring early about $11 billion equivalent in foreign debt.
5.    Romania is now in its third year of reform.  It has laid the foundation
of a market economy, and it is now ready to begin structural reform at the
enterprise level in earnest. In support of its efforts, Romania seeks a
Structural Adjustment Loan of $400 million from the World Bank, together with
$100 million equivalent in yen from the Japanese Export-Import Bank. The
loans would support policy changes now being implemented, together with
impending changes, in the areas of systemic and sectoral reform, stabilization
and price reform, enterprise reform, and social protection.
II. Systemic and Sectoral Reform
A. The Role of Government in a Market Economy
6.    The transformation to a market economy entails a fundamental change in
the role of the state, with government intervention limited to areas of market
failure or protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population. In
line with the aim of reducing the role of the government, we have been
carrying out fundamental reforms of our public finance. This is apparent in
the steep decline in government revenues and expenditures over the past two
years. Notably, both the tax burden on enterprises as well as financing
extended to enterprises has been sharply curtailed.
7.   lax re-fom.  Over the last two years, the government has laid the
foundations of a modern tax system, putting in place a profit tax (replacing
the former obligatory profit remittances), a progressive individual (wage)
income tax (replacing the former tax on the wage fund of enterprises), and
substantially modifying the turnover tax. The goal of the GOR over the medium
term is to have in place a Value-Added Tax (VAT), to be introduced in 1993,
and a generalized personal income tax by 1994.
8.    The turnover tax was significantly modified in December 1991 in order to
facilitate the introduction of the VAT. It now covers almost all goods and
services while exempting all exporters from taxation. The number of rates has
been reduced, with lower rates on intermediate goods to mitigate the negative
effects of cascading; and the calculation and payment of tax simplified. At
the same time, excises on alcohol, tobacco products and some luxury goods have
been introduced, which are intended eventually to supplement the VAT.
9.    From January 1, 1992 significant improvements to the profit tax have
also been implemented: a two rate structure has replaced the previous steeply
progressive rate structure, with the intention to introduce a single, lower
rate along with the VAT. The depreciation norms have also been liberalized.
Additional investment incentives (applicable also to foreign-owned enterprises
and joint ventures) have temporarily been provided as the government considers
that these are necessary for a limited period to encourage private sector
activity.



47                 Annex IV: page 3 of 17
10. Expenditure reform. The reforms of government expenditure thus far have
entailed a reduced role of the budget in redistributing resources to
enterprises and greater transparency of subsidies by bringing them into the
budget, with a time-bound program for their removal. Accordingly, the GOR has
reduced the recourse to the budget for state enterprises; production subsidies
are being granted only to the mining sector and the railways and it is the
intention of the GOR to phase these out as well. Enterprises have also been
left to finance the bulk of their investments from their own resources or
credits. With respect to consumer subsidies (for food, electricity, heat,
rents, public transportation and some education and medical supplies), the GOR
has issued a Decision announcing a reduction in the rate of subsidization
(i.e., the difference between the 'market' price and subsidized price) of
consumer subsidies by 25 per cent in May 1992 and by a further 25 per cent in
September 1992, with a complete phasing out of these subsidies by the end of
1993. The elimination of subsidies will release budgetary resources for
essential expenditures which have been squeezed, such as priority investments
in health, education and infrastructure.
11.   The government recognizes that effective fiscal control also requires
rationalizing and integrating the extra-budgetary funds with the budget.
Accordingly, a first step has been taken by eliminating some (former Export
Promotion Fund, Enterprise Restructuring Fund, Stock Revaluation Fund and
Central Housing Fund). The public national budget for 1992 includes in
annexes four extra-budgetary funds, namely: the Education Fund, the Health
Fund, the Fund for Research and the Special Fund for Farmers' Social
Insurance. There are, however, some pension funds (such as for agricultural
and non-agricultural cooperatives) which are not subject to the same budgetary
procedures and approval by Parliament. Actions on these pension funds will be
considered in the context of the review of the overall pension system (see
paragraph 66).
12. Public Investment Program. During most of the eighties Romania directed
over 30 percent of GDP to investment. Investments were financed from
enterprise retentions, through the state budget, and through credits from the
banking system. Since the adoption of a market economy two important features
have emerged. First, systemic changes have been instituted which have
required redefining the government's role in investment; in particular the
state budget is no longer the conduit for transfers to enterprises, and the
"public" sector has been more restrictively identified as consisting of
central and local governments and regies autonomes. Second, the precipitous
drop in output, the tight domestic liquidity conditions, the shortage of
foreign financing, and the uncertain prospects of many firms have led to a
very sharp decline in overall investment in the last two years. While short-
term factors undoubtedly contributed to this outcome, a prolonged delay in
investment recovery will seriously damage growth prospects.
13. Romania began its transition with a very large public investment
overhang. It has now become urgent for us to analyze this overhang and
establish priorities for public investment which make the best use of our
scarce resources. Accordingly, we have established a new Public Investment
Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Over the next few weeks we



Annex IV: page 4 of 17                48
intend to staff it, and provide it with the training and facilities to allow
it to discharge its functions. Guidelines will be drawn up for all agencies
of government, for the regies autonomes, and for investments requiring a
government guarantee for foreign finance, to ensure that all public
investments are fully analyzed -- technically, financially, and economically -
- before they are allowed to proceed. In this respect we intend a review of
all major public investments by November 1, 1992, in preparation for the 1993
budget. From this review we would make a determination as to which
investments should receive priority and which should be slowed or eliminated
altogether. During 1992, our intention is to develop the capacity to
establish a rolling annual public investment program, integrated into the
budget, and consistent with our foreign borrowing capacity.
14.   The GOR intends to take full advantage of the TA/Critical Imports Loan
to support a public investment advisor, short-term technical assistance,
including an industrial restructuring component (sectoral studies and critical
enterprise issues) and training in financial and economic cost/benefit
analysis through the Romanian Institute of Management.
15.   The Cernavoda nuclear power plant is an especially large and costly
investment project. It is the intention of the GOR to discontinue funding for
units 2 through 5 pending completion of a satisfactory economic viability
study that will take into account future electricity demand, the ongoing
rehabilitation program in the power sector and the thermal and hydro power
projects under construction by RENEL.
B. Financial Sector
16. Before the revolution, the Romanian financial sector consisted of the
NBR and four specialized banks -- the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, the
State Savings Bank (CEC), the Agriculture Bank and the Investment Bank. The
Romanian financial system moved to a two-tier banking system on December 1,
1990. The specialized banks became universal banks, and a new Commercial Bank
was created to take over all commercial transactions from the NBR. All of the
commercial banks have established departments to lend to the private sector.
In addition, several private banks have begun operations, and several foreign
banks are now doing business in Romania.
17. The NBR intends to develop banking supervision and accounting
regulations and institutional infrastructure. Romania's new banking laws
endow the NBR with sole supervisory authority over banking companies, with
broad authority to issue regulations. Presently, enterprise liabilities are
concentrated by bank, and bank assets are concentrated by enterprise. This
can lead to a situation where enterprise difficulties create more general
financial difficulties in the banking system. It is the intention of NBR to
issue a regulation requiring economic units proposing to acquire 10 percent or
more of the capital or shares of a bank to inform the NBR, allowing the NBR to
rule on the acquisition. The NBR would be given three months to respond and
to block the acquisition if it is not consistent with safe and sound
management.



49                Annex IV: page 5 of 17
18.   At present, a bank is allowed to lend up to 20 percent of its capital to
a single entity, and can acquire up to 20 percent the shares of a single
entity -- exposure to a single client is not limited with respect to the
bank's own capital. The NBR intends to adopt the EC's exposure guidelines,
and elaborate a timetable according to which these limits would be attained
for banks not presently in compliance.
C. Agriculture
19.   Privatization of agricultural land is proceeding rapidly, according to
the the provisions of Law 18/1991. Private ownership is being reestablished
over about 9 million hectares for 5.1 million pre-conmunism owners and their
heirs. About 4.8 million "Possession Rights" attesting land ownership have
been issued so far; 6 million hectares have been returned to 2.9 million
former owners and over 100,000 titles have been already issued. The GOR
intends to complete land titling by the end of 1993. Romania has roughly 14.5
million hectares devoted to agriculture, of which the private sector will own
11 million hectares as compared to 1.9 million hectares that were private
prior to implementing Law 18. The state-owned farms and agricultural
companies, which together hold about 2.4 million hectares, have been converted
into commercial companies or regies autonomes (paragraph 57); the commercial
companies will be privatized according to Law 58. The remaining 1.1 million
hectares are owned by local governments and public institutions.
20. This agricultural restructuring, which will improve the potential of the
sector in the long run, has, however, lead to a decline in production. In the
past two years we had to import substantial quantities of wheat, barley,
maize, soy beans and other foods, while offsetting agricultural exports have
declined. We are currently undertaking a study on the strategy of
agricultural development for the next two years and beyond. Included in this
study will be analyses of agricultural pricing, input supply and distribution,
credit, and storage and market..ng.
D. Labor Market
21. Romania has recently taken significant steps toward creating the legal
framework and institutions for an efficiently functioning labor market,
including promulgating legislation concerning the rights and organization of
collective bargaining, removing barriers to internal migration, and
eliminating th; complex system that set wage rates in each Job and sector.
The government also intends to begin work as soon as possible on further
revisions to the labor code that would facilitate flexible work arrangements
and clarify the rights and obligations of employers and employees with respect
to hiring and employment termination.
22. During the early months of 1992, labor unions in Romania sought a
tripling of the minimum wage. Arguing on the basis of the economic factors
underlying the Romanian labor market, the GOR denled the request, raising it
by 20 percent instead (approximately in line with the indexation of the
average wage) to lei 8,500/month ($42.50 at an interbank market exchange rate



Annex IV: page 6 of 17                 50
of lei 200 / $).  T1  GOR intends to continue managing the level of the
minimum wage in order to avoid disincentives to employment.
23.   During the coming year, the GOR intends to undertake a study of
practical, as opposed to legal, obstacles to labor mobility (such as the
availability of housing) and to formulate a plan to remove these obstacles
over the next two years. The government also intends to foster an efficient
information exchange through a network of employment services.
E. International Trade
24.   To achieve currency convertibility and improve the balance of payments
position, measures were taken to unify and devalue the exchange rate and to
eliminate the system of central foreign exchange allocations. The package of
trade reforms is consistent with the stage of economic transformation and
requirements of a market economy. These reforms include: abolishing the state
monopoly on trading rights, removal of licensing as a vehicle of plan
implementation, and liberalizing the import and export procedures and
quantitative controls, and increasing the autonomy and role of economic agents
in foreign trade activity. Through decentralization, foreign trade activity,
which was concentrated in 75 state-owned companies, is now practiced by about
20,000 companies.  The private sector share of foreign trade activities
amounts to 19 percent of exports and 15 percent of imports.
25.  Romania's trade liberalization measures support structural
transformation by introducing the efficiency and welfare benefits of foreign
competition.  During the past twc years, administrative trade controls were
significantly reduced. No import quotas or bans exist except for goods
subject to international control (armaments, nuclear materials and equipment,
hazardous goods, drugs and narcotics). Import licenses will be abolished in
1992. Romania is committed not to reimpose quantitative restrictions on
imports.
26. With the removal of non-tariff barriers, the revised tariff structure is
becoming the main instrument of trade policy. A new tariff code with a
weighted average tariff of 12X was submitted to GATT in September. In the
meantime, the rates for most items were further reduced for 1992 only. At
present, 45 percent of imports, in value, are exempt from tariffs, including
fuels, industrial raw materia 's and some foodstuffs; and the tariff rates for
only about 7 percent of imports are over 20 percent. The average weighted
tariff rate is now around 5 percent.
27. On the export side, administrative controls have been substantially
reduced and further liberalization is intended. At present, 68 items remain
subject to export bans or quotas. By the end of 1992, all of these items will
be fully liberalized except for remaining subsidized goods, goods that are
quantitatively restricted by importing countries, and goods under barter and
special payments arrangements. Export licenses will be eliminated by the end
of 1992, except for the limited number of goods that will remain subject to
quantitative restrictions.



51                Annex IV: page 7 of 17
28.   Starting with exchange rate unification/devaluation in November, 1991,
exporters were required to surrender 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds
to NBR at the interbank market rate of exchange, and importers bid for foreign
exchange in the interbank market. Starting in April, 1992, the exchange
regime was further liberalized. The surrender requirement has been reduced to
30 percent, and licensed foreign exchange offices are permitted to participate
directly in the interbank market.
29.   The Government attaches great importance to foreign investment as a
vehicle of structural adjustment and has taken steps to promote it in Romania.
Legislation now elaborates the provisions for the unrestricted participation
of foreign capital in commercial companies, reaffirms property rights of
foreigners and local investors; provides duty exemption for imported
investment equipment; and provides various profit tax exemptions.
F.  Price Reform
30. Price Liberalization. Following three rounds of price reform, the GOR's
general policy has been to pass through to the domestic economy the full
impact of the exchange rate unification/devaluation in November, 1991. This
resulted in a period of price turbulence during which monopolistic suppliers
opportunistically tried to raise prices out of proportion to the increase in
costs resulting from the devaluation and pass-through. In order to prevent
abusive pricing practices, the GOR (a) imposed restrictions on the freedom to
set commissions and markups, (b) reimposed price ceilings in line with
international prices on basic raw materials and energy products, and (c)
required a 90-day notification period for price increases on about 160
commodities. The GOR feels that these measures are necessary in the short run
to assure fair treatment of consumers and users of intermediate goods during
an unsettled transitional period when monopolists could otherwise take
advantage of turbulent market conditions to raise prices unreasonably. The
GOR recognizes that the longer term effect may be to prevent price movements
from acting as signals to market participants, and that this may interfere
with the rapid supply response the GOR is trying to achieve.
31. Therefore, it is the intention of the GOR, by end-October, 1992, to
eliminate limits on prices and margins. The present 90-day advance price
increase notification period will be reduced to 30 days in October, 1992,
consistent with normal business practice in market economies.
32.   Energy Pricing. Within the sphere of price liberalization, Romania has
moved most energy prices to levels that reflect international prices for the
tradeables, and economic costs for the nontradeables. With the exception of
household energy, price increases have ranged from 300 to 1,000 percent
within one year. Oil and gas are especially important. The price of oil,
whether imported or domestically produced, is now at parity with the world
market (at the interbank market exchange rate), and it is the intention of the
GOR to maintain this parity. The price of gas is only about 55 percent of the
price paid for gas imported from the CIS, but it will be increased 10 percent
per quarter in real terms until parity is achieved. Households consume about
11 percent of total energy, and the prices are presently subsidized for social



Annex Iv: page 8 of 17                52
reasons. However, these subsidies will be eliminated along with other
consumer subsidies by end-1993 (see paragraph 10).
III. Recent Economic Developments
33.   Accompanying the systemic reform developments, the GOR adopted a
stabilization program in early 1991 that was supported by a Standby from the
[MF. The program aimed at restoring external balance after a dramatic swing
in the current account balance, from surpluses of about 5 percent of GDP in
1988-89 to a deficit of about 9 percent of GDP in 1990. The swing was caused
in part by the demise of the CMEA, as well as expansionary demand policies in
the immediate aftermath of the revolution. The stabilization program also
aimed at restraining inflation in the presence of a monetary overhang, while
most prices were being liberalized.
34.   In the initial phase of the program, a dual-exchange rate system was
introduced under which energy and raw materials were imported at a low
"official" rate, financed by a 50 percent surrender requirement on export
receipts. A very tight nominal credit ceiling was imposed, along with an
incomes policy offering partial indexation. In addition, a stringent fiscal
target was set, with a (revised) program deficit not to exceed 2.4 percent of
GDP. The actual deficit was only 2 percent of GDP.
35.   The performance criteria of the Standby were met through September,
1991. The program underwent some modifications as economic conditions
evolved. In particular, there was a considerable shortfall in expected
financing from international sources, leading to a downward adjustment in
reserve levels required under the program. As 1991 progressed, it became
evident that the dual exchange rate system was becoming a source of economic
distortions; accordingly the rate was unified in November 1991. (As noted
earlier, this unification was accompanied by a near-complete pass-through of
international prices to the domestic economy.)
36. Nevertheless, by November, 1991, the stabilization effort was undermined
by the appearance of large enterprise arrears. Starting in October, 1991, the
NBR began to allow an expansion of bank credit to ease the arrears problem.
In December, 1992, Parliament instructed the National Bank of Romania (Law 80)
to engage in a "global" clearance of enterprise arrears. Gross mutual payment
settlements among enterprises accounting for lei 1,800 billion were made that
resulted in a net credit expansion of about lei 300 billion by end-March,
1992. The NBR took measures to offset this monetary expansion and as a result
the money stock in the first months of 1992 was maintained at the end-
December, 1991, level.
37. The GOR fully recognizes that both the stabilization and reform programs
are at risk if arrears are allowed to reappear. More generally, the
introduction of strict financial discipline among enterprises is the most
important challenge now facing the reform. The manner in which the GOR will
attack this problem is described starting in paragraph 49 below.



53                Annex IV: page 9 of 17
38.  The costs of stabilization and reform have already been high.
Industrial output fell by about 20 percent in 1990 and again in 1991 (a two-
year drop of over 36 percent); investment fell by about 49 percent over two
years; overall, GDP has fallen by about 20 percent. A number of factories
have been closed, and, in the large integrated enterprises, numerous
production lines have been shut down. The collapse of the CMEA trading bloc
has been costly: exports and imports have roughly halved in value since 1989,
and the economy faces serious difficulties in financing its energy, raw
material and food requirements. The successive price liberalizations have
resulted in a quadrupling of the price level; real wages have fallen by about
25 percent between October 1990 and December 1991, and further declines are
expected. At the same time, official unemployment rose from negligible
numbers to some 488,000 persons by end-March, 1992 (about 4.7 percent of the
labor force), not counting several hundred thousand more people temporarily
"furloughed because of shortages of energy and raw materials. Unemployment
is expected to continue rising rapidly.
39.  In the coming year we intend to contine to pursue an active
stabilizatiol, policy, again supported by the IMF4. Stabilization continues to
be required for a number of reasons. First, while inflation has been reduced
substantially from the January 1992 monthly rate of 19.5 percent to 12.5
percent in February 1992, price stability requires continued expenditure
restraint. Second, for structural reasons, the import propensity in Romania
is high; to avoid external imbalance and excessive pressure on the exchange
rate again requires restraint in demand. Finally, tight fiscal and monetary
policies are necessary to establish the environment in which adjustment in the
real economy can occur.
40. In this effort, consistency across policies remains of great importance,
and we hope to improve that consistency. The success of our macro-economic
management does depend upon financial discipline being observed by
enterprises, and avoiding a build-up of inter-enterprise arrears as was
experienced at the end of last year. While we have every intention of
enforcing enterprise financial discipline, it may be that some enterprises
will require budgetary subventions for a short period of time while they
reorganize their operations. Although this has not been provided for in the
ordinary budget, we may consider a strictly limited supplementary
appropriation to provide temporary support to those enterprises that (a) have
made strong adjustment efforts and (b) formulate worthy restructuring plans.
41. A further area in which we shall improve macroeconomic consistency will
be in trade policy. Rapid import liberalization together with some continuing
export restrictions may have put undue pressure on the exchange rate. As
noted earlier, we shall, in the next few months, substantially reduce
quantitative restrictions on exports in order to stimulate foreign exchange
earnings.



Annex IV: page 10 of 17                54
42.   The highlights of our stabilization program, including the elements we
have agreed with the IMF, follow:
a.    Deficit.  The consolidated government budget deficit will be
constrained to 1.9 percent of GDP, compared with a 1991 fiscal outcome
of 2 percent.  We expect revenue collections to amount to 22.7 percent
of GDP, while expenditures will amount to 24.6 percent of GDP.
b.    SubEidies.  Consumer subsidies (on food, electricity, heat, rents,
and other wage goods) will be reduced by 25 percent on May 1st. We
shall reduce them by a further 25 percent in September 1992.
c.    Budgeting.  The unemployment fund has been included in the
consolidated government budget presentation to Parliament and it is
being better targeted (see paragraph 65 below); the fund has sufficient
resources to cover unemployment reaching up to 10 percent of the labor
force by the end of 1992.
d.    Money and credit.  The increase in broad money, in domestic
currency terms, will be at most 88 percent. The maximum expansion of
domestic credit will be 67 percent. Of this, credit to the government
will represent 15.8 percent. We expect the inflation rate at the end of
the year to be 89 percent on an annualized basis.
e.    Enternrise arrears.  Through measures outlined in paragraphs 49
and following, gross enterprise arrears would be limited to 7.5 percent
of enterprise turnover, a sharp decline from the figure registered in
199114.
f.    Interest rates.  The GOR will ensure that interest rates will be
positive in real terms. The GOR is requiring the CEC and other
financial institutions to pay market rates on existing negotiable
instruments.
g.    Exchange rate.  The exchange system is to operate as a managed
float, on the basis of a classical fixing procedure, and with the
foreign exchange offices participating in the interbank market. In
April, 1992, the GOR reduced the export proceeds surrender requirement
from 100 percent to 30 percent.
h.    Incomes Policy.  On January 1, 1992, the GOR adopted a system that
discourages inflationary increases in the total wage bills of
enterprises. The system applies to all enterprises with majority state
ownership. These firms may set individual wages and salaries at any
14 Any special credit injections to clear arrears blockages, similar to
that which occurred to clear arrears through December, 1991, and any budget
transfers to public enterprises, above that for the railways and mines, would
reduce the numerator of this figure by a like amount.



55               Annex IV: page 11 of 17
level above the minimum wage, but increases in the total wage bill above
given limits will be taxed. The initial ceilings were established as of
October, 1991, together with initial indexation to January 1, 1992, and
the maximum rate at which the ceilings may be increased will be
determined periodically by the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The rate of adjustment allowed
will be partially indexed to the rate of price increase. Higher rates
of increase are available to expanding firms.
43.   The current account deficit for 1992 is expected to be $1.3 billion,
and, taking into account the need to establish a reasonable level of
international reserves, as well as to provide for the payment of certain
short-term capital amounts, total resource requirements will be $2.1 billion,
which we anticipate will be financed as follows: $487 million from the G-24
(out of the 1991 loan), $100 million from IBRD (excluding the SAL), $70
million from EBRD and EIB, $100 million governmental credits, and $600 million
private capital. The remaining financing will be covered through drawings
from the IMF and the G-24 as well as through the SAL from the World Bank. In
view of the very low level of our external debt, we believe that this
additional debt accumulation will not jeopardize our creditworthiness.
44. Over the coming year we intend to continue strengthening the capacity
for macro-economic and sectoral Analyses and policy formulation in the Central
and Branch Ministries, most especially by drawing upon the funds available in
the national economic management component of the TA/Critical Imports Loan.
IV. Enterprise Reform
45.   At the time of the revolution, state-owned enterprises accounted for
most economic activity in Romania. Economic reform is virtually synonymous
with enterprise reform. Romania is implementing an enterprise reform package
consisting of three elements: reforming the environment in which enterprises
operate; hardening the budget constraint that enterprises face; and
privatizing state enterprises and other economic agents.
A. Enterprise Environment
46.   Legal Foundation for Market Economy. Romania has made dramatic changes
in order to expose enterprises to market forces and to compel them to adapt to
them. The GOR's accomplishments and intentions with respect to price reform
are described in paragraph 30. The Constitution of Romania, ratified by
popular referendum in December, 1991, states clearly that "the economy of
Romania is a market economy", and in fact the legal framework for a market
economy is largely in place. The Company Law (Law 31), enacted in November,
1990, establishes systems of governance for 100 percent state-owned commercial
companies and other types of commercial entities. The law concerning the
reorganization of state economic units (Law 15) converts state enterprises
into commercial companies (CCs) and regies autonomes (RAs). A new law to
modernize the accounting practices in Romania was passed in early 1991. The
reactivated Commercial Code permits bankruptcy procedures to be invoked, and
the GOR has provided the World Bank with a legal opinion to this effect from



Annex IV: page 12 of 17               56
the Ministry of Justice. A new Bankruptcy Law, which clarifies how creditors
may compel payment and which sets in place clear procedures for the exit of
nonviable firms is now before Parliament. Legislation is before Parliament
providing recourse to creditors whose debtors default. The GOR's intentions
with respect to international trade are summarized in paragraphs 24 through
28.
47.   Competition.  Part of Romania's legacy is that its industries tend to be
concentrated and monopolistic. To ensure freedom of entry, to prohibit unfair
trade practices, and to make a start on the deconcentration of industry, we
intend to introduce a Competition Law acceptable to the World Bank into
Parliament by July 1, 1992. This law is being drafted with advice from
practitioners in other European countries and from international
organizations. It deals with (i) restrictive trade practices; (ii) abuse of
dominant positions; and (iii) mergers and anti-trust. In addition, the law
provides for the officials in charge of competition to be consulted in the
privatization process.
48.   The competition law will also provide for the establishment of a
Competition Council.  In the next six months, anticipating the Law's passage,
we intend to reinforce administrative and staff capacity to implement the law.
By end-1992, the GOR will draw up an action program for demonopolization or
deconcentration of specific activities. Priority in this program will be
placed on wholesale and retail trade, and distribution activities, especially
in agriculture.
B. Enterprise Financial Discioline SEyt
49.   In the first two years of Romania's economic reform, most enterprises
resisted genuine structural change. In the face of tight monetary and fiscal
policies through most of 1991 (see paragraph 33 and following), enterprise
resistance to change emerged in the form of large enterprise arrears.
Following the arrears clean-up (paragraph 36) the problems remain how to
compel firms to repay the 'global compensation credits" that were created by
the clean-up scheme and how to avoid the recurrence of enterprise arrears.
These problems are just two facets of the larger problem, how to compel
genuine enterprise adjustment by restoring and maintaining enterprise
financial discipline. The GOR intends that there should be three mutually
reinforcing approaches.
50. The first is obvious: it is that suppliers should impose discipline by
refusing to supply enterprises that don't pay, and banks and other creditors
should decline to make new loans to enterprises whose efforts to adjust to the
new economic realities in Romania are insufficient. For example, Romania's
electricity and natural gas distribution companies have started to cut
supplies to firms that fall into arrears. This practice is normal in market
economies, but in Romania it represents a sharp break with the past. It is
the intention of the GOR to encourage the generalization of this practice
among state-owned suppliers.



57                Annex IV: page 13 of 17
51.   In order to provide an additional incentive for enterprises themselves
to practice financial discipline, Romania intends that interest rates will be
positive in real terms (see paragraph 42.f), and that debtors will pay
interest on arrears. This will cause suppliers to think carefully about the
firms to which they are extending trade credit and to act aggressively to
collect overdue payments, and it will give purchasers a powerful incentive to
pay their bills in a timely way. One of the sources of arrears in the past
was that enterprises accepted delivery of raw materials and other inputs, and
then accumulated large amounts of finished goods inventories or stockpiles of
intermediate goods or supplies with no corresponding delivery contracts.
Positive real interest rates will be a disincentive to accepting delivery of
inputs before they are required.
52.   Second, the GOR is preparing legislation and complementary governmental
decisions that provide legal recourse to creditors when debtors fall into
arrears, and which require creditors to avail themselves of that recourse. A
draft law presented to Parliament in February, 1992 (the Follow-Up Law to Law
80), provides that creditors unpaid after a short grace period may ascertain
and inform about a state of insolvency of a debtor and initiate the procedure
to recover the obligation due to them. Decision 82 and Decision 162 provide
complementary measures. In addition, the GOR intends to continue pressing for
the passage of a draft Bankruptcy Law that was submitted to Parliament before
the end of 1991. In the meantime, the existing Commercial Code is adequat" to
enforce bankruptcy.
53. The GOR is aware that the legal procedures provided in Decision 82,
Decision 162, the Follow-Up Law to Law 80, and the Bankruptcy Law will be
ineffective unless the judicial and administrative apparatus to implement them
is in force. Accordingly, the GOR intends to take such actions as may be
required for the expeditious implementation of these laws and decisions.
Also, the GOR recognizes that circumstances may arise that require further
legislation or rule-making. The GOR will continue to develope the laws and
complementary governmental decisions as required in order to enforce
enterprise financial discipline.
54. Third, it may be necessary for the state to assume an important role and
be directly involved in enforcing enterprise financial discipline. In some
cases, especially in cases where the enterprise in difficulty is a major
client, it may be very difficult for the supplier or banker to enforce
creditors' rights, even armed with the procedures described in paragraph 52.
In such cases, and in cases that are exceptional because of their size or
importance, the GOR intends that the state will pley a direct role.
55. It is our intention to monitor enterprise financial discipline carefully
in order to identify problems early. The responsibility for this monitoring
is shared by: (a) banks, suppliers and other creditors, (b) the MoEF, and (c)
the line ministries through the Board of State Representatives (Enterprise
Councils). The system of monthly enterprise reporting set up by the MoEF in
1991 is providing core financial indicators on some 6,000 RAs and CCs,
including arrears to suppliers and banks. The monthly report generated on the
basis of the monitoring system will be used to (a) analyze overall trends with



Annex IV: page 14 of 17               58
respect to enterprise arrears and business difficulties generally, and (b)
formulate recommendations for state intervention as required.
56.   We intend that information from these various sources will be promptly
passed to the Cabinet or such group or groups as may be established to
investigate and take action on troubled firms. The goal is to ensure
financial discipline and to compel genuine adjustment by the enterprises
concerned, including privatization, restructuring and/or liquidation. We
expect this process to result in substantial downsizing of some of the
affected enterprises' operations and to result in a number of closures.
C. Privatization and Private Segtor Development
57.   All state-owned enterprises have been converted into regies autonomes
(RAs -- enterprises to remain in state hands indefinitely) or commercial
companies (CCs -- those intended to be privatized). A National Agency for
Privatization was established in mid-1990. According to the Privatization Law
promulgated on August 14, 1991, thirty percent of the book value of all state-
owned commercial companies will be distributed free to all eligible adult
citizens via five Private Ownership Funds (POFs), and the other seventy
percent will be held by a State Ownership Fund (SOF) pending privatization.
The GOR intends to have 50 percent of the shares of CC8 in private hands
within three years.
58. The Privatization Law provides for privatizations even in advance of the
operation of the POFs and SOF. Early privatizations would include both small
and large privatizations. According to the Privatization Law, the sale of
state-owned property can be accomplished both by selling shares of enterprises
and by selling units or components of enterprises that can be organized and
function independently. Sales of units of enterprises, called "small
privatizations", comprise entities such as shops, restaurants and workshops,
all of which are presently units within large enterprises. Over 3,000
candidates for small privatizations have been identified. Auctions for more
than 250 enterprise units were completed by the end of April, 1992. The
process will continue at a rapid pace.
59. The GOR has also prepared a list of 30 medium and large enterprises for
early "pilot* privatizations. The enterprises are representative of various
industries and geographic regions. Advisors have been selected to work with
the National Agency for Privatization to prepare the first 10 of them for
privatization. The NAP intends to offer these 10 enterprises for sale by
July, 1992, and to complete 10 more pilot privatizations by the end of 1992.
60. The five POFs created by the Privatization Law will serve as
intermediaries for the holdings of the 30 percent of CC shares to be received
by eligible citizens. The OR intends to establish the POFs, issue guidelines
for POF operations, and allocate CCs to the POFs by July 1, 1992; and to
distribute POF Certificates of Ownership to the public by October 31, 1992.
61. The SOF provides a mechanism to separate government's function as a
regulator of enterprises from its ownership functions. By July 1, 1992, the



59               Annex IV: page 15 of 17
GOR will issue guidelines and regulations governing the SOF's operations. It
is the GOR's intention that the SOF will function as a public institution
organized on a commercial basis, independent of the government, its
ministries, and the state budget. The Privatization Law requires the SOF to
reduce its portfolio over time. To this end, it is required to develop annual
plans for privatization and submit them to the government for information. In
order to carry out its mandate to operate on an independent, commercial basis,
the SOF should not utilize its funds for the purpose of subsidizing operating
losses of enterprises in its portfolio. The GOR intends that the SOP should
take responsibility for liquidating those loss-making enterprises that are
unsuitable for restructuring and make commercially-based restructuring
decisions.
62. Legislation enacted shortly after Romania's revolution legalized small
private enterprises, and over 200,000 firms have been licensed. The GOR
accepts that legalizing small private businesses does not automatically create
an environment in which they can thrive, and therefore has undertaken an
EC/PHARE-financed study to address constraints to the creation and growth of
private companies. On the basis of this study, the GOR intends to formulate
an action program for removing identified constraints to private sector
development and to begin implementing the action program by September, 1992.
The GOR plans to seek assistance from the World Bank and other agencies in
implementing the action program.
D. Reies Autonomes
63. The number of regies autonomes immune from privatization and eligible
for state subsidies has grown to over 500. The GOR intends to develop
objective criteria for classifying enterprises as RAs by October 1, 1992, and
to establish a process by January 1, 1992 for reclassifying those RAs not
meeting the criteria. The ministry responsible for developing the criteria
and establishing the process is the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
V. Social Protection
64. The GOR considers an effective system of social protection to be an
essential part of the transition strategy. The Romanian social protection
system concentrates on supporting four groups particularly vulnerable to rapid
economic change: (a) the unemployed through the unemployment fund; (b) the
elderly through the public pension system; (c) families with children through
a tax credit and cash allowances; and (d) needy people ineligible for support
through any of the above funds through a variety of programs. In general, the
GOR's goals are to strengthen and target existing programs, to improve their
efficiency and to supplement existing programs with a means-tested social
assistance program.
A. Unemployment Scheme
65. An unemployment fund was created in 1990, funded by a wage tax collected
from employers and, starting in 1991 by contributions of employers and
employees. At present the fund is more than sufficient to cover unemployment



Annex IV: page 16 of 17               60
reaching up to 10 percent by the end of 1992. In early 1991 Parliament
legislated an unemployment benefit scheme providing for income support, job
information services, and retraining benefits. The Government recognizes that
present eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits are so broad as to
threaten the financial sustainability of the program. Accordingly, by June,
1992, the eligibility rules will be tightened by eliminating benefits for
school leavers (beginning with 1992 graduates) and for other new entrants to
the labor market.
B. Pension System
66.   During 1992, the GOR (with support from the World Bank under the
TA/Critical Imports Loan), will prepare a comprehensive reform of the public
pension system. The GOR intends to:
a. Undertake a detailed study of the financial sustainability and
economic incentives of the current system with respect to the evolution
of the economy and future needs for social insurance protection, and
b. Study foreign experience to help develop options with respect to the
appropriate mix between unfunded public and funded private provisions.
Based on these studies the GOR will prepare a "White Paper" (by autumn
1992) setting forth the central elements of the pension reform. The
implementation of the reform is currently envisaged for January 1, 1993.
67.   To help assure financial sustainability of the pension system, the GOR
has raised pension taxes and strengthened the contribution-benefit link.
Employers in sectors where employees are entitled to retire at younger ages
must pay higher taxes.
68.   The GOR intends to refrain from u-:ng the reserves of the supplementary
pension funds to finance the deficits of basic pension institutions. Any
state funds used for this purpose will be channelled through the state budget.
In addition, the GOR intends to take steps to assure that the reserves of the
supplementary pension funds held with the State Savings Bank (CEC) or
commercial banks receive a more realistic rate of return than in 1991.
Following the detailed technical studies, the GOR intends to develop a
suitable regulatory structure for a system of private pension funds.
C. Benefits for Children
69.   The GOR currently provides support to families with children through a
20 percent reduction in wage taxes for any worker who has ever had children;
and a cash benefit, payable to those parents who work in the state sector or
are unemployed. By end-Kay, 1992, the GOR intends to submit legislation to
Parliament that would replace these benefits, including the tax credit, with a
single, universal program with an identical benefit for each qualifying child.
The government intends to implement measures to limit the overall transfer
payment for this purpose to a maximum of 2 percent of GDP by end-1992, in
order to generate savings on these benefits not based on need that may be
redeployed to benefits based on need.



61                 Annex IV. page 17 of 17
D. Means-tested Social Assistance
70.   The GOR intends by September 1, 1992, to develop an income-tested social
assistance program, involving an expansion of existing programs for special
groups (e.g., the handicapped), vouchers for in-kind assistance (e.g., food
coupons, housing allowances), and cash assistance to bring families' incomes
up to the poverty line. During coming months, the government's priorities in
this area will be to establish a minimum level of household income (poverty
line) as a benchmark for setting minimum benefits, develop means-testing
instruments and certification infrastructure, and expand eligibility for
locally-administered social assistance (mainly the free meals program) and
cash assistance to those whose incomes fall below this threshold.
E. Sick Leave
71.   In the past, neither the worker nor the enterprise have suffered a loss
when a worker missed work because of illness because the state covered all
sick leave. Workers were tempted to miss work unnecessarily, and enterprises
had no incentive to maintain discipline with respect to sick leave. The GOR
intends to develop a program to curb abuse. A key element will be the
requirement, starting May, 1992, that the enterprise pay the worker through
tenth day he is out sick, at a benefit level determined by the firm but not
less than a minimum level specified by the government. The social insurance
budget will continue to cover sick leave after the tenth day.
VI. Conclusion
72.   The economic reform program that Romania is pursuing consists of a
comprehensive and consistent collection of measures to stabilize the economy,
subject economic agents to market forces, compel genuine enterprise
adjustment, and protect vulnerable members of society against the harshest
effects of the wrenching changes that are in progress. Romania has clearly
demonstrated its resolve through actions already taken. In order to
consolidate the gains made so far and to continue the rapid transformation of
the economy, Romania now needs strong balance of payments support. The
Structural Adjustment Loan Romania has requested from the World Bank, together
with a new Standby Agreement with the International Monetary Fund, would be
the central elements in this support.
GeorgM  Danielescu
Minister of Eaonomy and Finance
Romania
May 4, 1992



62              Annex V. page 1 of 1
QNli1IA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
Suppleienary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:           11 months
(b) Prepared by:                     Government with Bank assistance
(c) SAL Preparation Mission:         June 1991
(d) Appraisal Mission:               February 24 - March 14, 1992
(e) Negotiations:                    April 24 - May 4, 1992
(f) Scheduled Board Date:            May 28, 1992
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness:  To be determined
Section II. Sgecial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions for Board Presentation
See conditionality matrix, page 39.
(b) Condition for Effectiveness and First Tranche Release
Parliamentary ratification.
(c) Conditions for Second TXanche Release
See conditionality matrix, page 39.



es                 Annex VI. page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS & IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31,1992)
US$ millon
noss cancellation)
Fscal
Loan No.        Year           Borrower         Purpose                   Loan         Undisbursed
Twenty-six non-pooled loans and even po.oed loans                         2182.22             0.00
were committed from FY74 to FY82. These loans
were fully disbursed by end-FY87 and funly
prepaid by FY89.
3363-RO          1991           Pomania        Technical Assistance        180.00           170.30
and Critical Imports
3409-RO          1992           Romania        Health Rehabiion            160.00           160.00
TOTAL                       330.00           320.30
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(a of March 31, 1992)
Romania ohed IFC on September 17, 1990. There were no investments as of March 31, 1992. a/
at A U0 mion Investment in Alctel Netwok System Romanla S.A., was apoved In April 1992.



__ _ _ b , , , _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 23d* 
--' > - ~~~~UKRAINE- -\
ROMAN IA
-4e  / -<,  -k  ,r    ,4                      ENPRIVATE FARMER AND
BT  NI      ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
1<   C    , t=    _    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j,Bs.
BI.         SUCEAVA  '> h*  H                 mj ,lHB  U  L ,    G  AV  R  I  A  ,    ,  AS
- s ogD ik*  ad SQ R~im  oml
SAUEr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  tmlo.~ o~d,e
~~~~~~HWIOARYf  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAIn4ooal&.ld
ARAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH19



