Docaunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 14726
INFLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHMT LOAIN
JUNE 21, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Leu (plural Lei)
US$1 = 1773.9
Leu I = US$ 0.00056
Lei per US Dollar
Official
1989                          14.92
1990                          22.43
1991                          76.39
1992                          307.95
1993                          760.05
1994 October                  1752.95
1994 November                 1756.55
1994 December                 1773.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Cc             Commercial Company
CCFF           Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility
CMEA           Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU             European Union
FESAL          Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
G-24           Group of 24
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOR            Government of Romania
IBRD           Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Agency
IDP            Industrial Development Project
IMF            International Monetary Fund
JEXIM          Japan Export and Import Bank
MoF            Ministry of Finance
NBR            National Bank of Romania
RA             Regie Autonome
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBA            IMF Standby Arrangement
SOE            State-owned Enterprise
SOF            State Ownership Fund
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
TACI           Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3481-RO]
CONTENTS
Preface ........................................................... i
Evaluation Summary  .                ................................................. ii
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment  ...... ....... ..1................... 
A. Introduction ................................................ 1
B.  Macroeconomic and Reform  Background to the SAL   ...................... 1
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives   ................................. 3
D. Implementation Record: Compliance and Constraints    ..................... 6
E.  Bank Performance    ........................................... 7
F.  Borrower Performance   ......................................... 7
G. Sustainability  . ............................................. 7
H.  Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned   ....................... 9
PART II. Statistical Tables             .....................11........................  1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments   ..................................  12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits  .................................  13
Table 3: Project Timetable   .......................................  13
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ...                           .......  14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ........................  14
Table 6:  Project Financing    .......................................  14
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants   ..................................  15
Table 8: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs    ...............................  17
Table 9:  Bank Resources:  Missions   .................................  18
Appendices:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Map
This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3481-RO]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan in
Romania, for which Loan 3481-RO in the amount of US$400 million equivalent was approved on
June 2, 1992 and made effective on July 20, 1992.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by March 31,
1994. The second tranche was released on April 27, 1994 and was fully disbursed by December 31,
1994. Cofinancing for the project was provided by Japan Export-Import Bank for US$100 million
and a Dutch Grant of 15 million guilders.
The ICR was prepared by Farid Dhanji, (Senior Economist, ECICO) and reviewed by
Christiaan Poortman (Division Chief, ECICO) and George Zaidan (Project Adviser, EC1DR). The
Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, in
December 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and
commenting on the draft ICR.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3481-RO]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    In December 1989, the communist regime of Nicolae Ceausescu was overthrown, and
Romania began the process of transforming its political and economic institutions.
ii.    Three Governments have been in place since 1990, each committed to a program of structural
reforms aimed at turning one of the most centrally controlled and managed economies in the region
into a market economy. The three Governments have shared an approach of gradualism in reform
and have sought to protect the population from the harsher social costs of the transition. The
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was prepared under the first two Governments, negotiated with the
second and largely implemented by the third.
iii.. Early in 1990, Romania resumed its relationship with the World Bank and other international
financial organizations. The Bank prepared a comprehensive economic report' that helped establish
the reform agenda and the bases for adjustment lending. In response to the new Government's
request for immediate assistance, the Bank mounted a Technical Assistance and Critical Imports loan
to assist the authorities build the institutional capacity for a market economy, and thus complement
SAL actions. A loan to the Health sector was approved in 1991. The SAL was approved in June
1992 and was conceived as part of the program of international support to the country's economic
reform program, which also included co-financing by the Export-Import Bank of Japan, an IMF
Stand-by and drawings from the Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility, and a G-24 bilateral
program. After second tranche release, the Netherlands provided grant co-financing.
iv.    The situation facing the Government and the Bank at the inception of the SAL was complex
and difficult. International reserves had been depleted, a large fiscal deficit was developing, output
was falling sharply and inflation was accelerating. The country was facing an incomplete and
faltering price liberalization, a potentially explosive consumer subsidy bill, and large inter-enterprise
arrears that threatened to further undermine financial stability. The SAL was designed to support an
ambitious and comprehensive adjustment program that addressed the causes of instability, and
establish programs that would deepen systemic change in the transition to a market economy. In the
event, the SAL became the centerpiece of the Bank's dialogue with Romania on issues of stabilization
and systemic reform for a period of almost three years.
Project Objectives and Achievements
v.    Broadly conceived, the SAL had two main objectives: (i) to support stabilization efforts, while
maintaining the momentum of price liberalization and the progressive opening of the economy; and
(ii) to further structural reforms and to expand private ownership.
I     Romania: The Challenge of Transition (Volumes I & II), Report No. 9497-RO, December 3, 1991.



- iii -
vi.    To promote achievement of project objectives, an ambitious program of actions was agreed
upon between the Bank and the Government: stabiization measures complemented IMF SBA actions
on monetary and fiscal policy by focussing on the elimination of consumer subsidies; price and trade
liberalization was to be accomplished by substantially deregulating price setting in the economy, and
by drastically reducing the number of export restrictions; in addition specific actions on raising
energy prices were sought; specific privatization targets were set; enterprise financial discipline was
to be secured by a series of actions resulting in a measurable reduction in the volume of inter-
enterprise arrears; improving public sector management focussed on reducing the number of regies
autonomes (RAs) and in establishing a public investment unit; finally, the SAL supported the
establishment of a unified family benefits scheme.
vii.   Over the broad range of involvement the SAL can be judged a success, although progress was
uneven and implementation slower than expected. At the time the loan was closed, Romania was
closer to achieving macroeconomic stability than at any period in the previous four years; inflation
had been reduced from an annual rate of nearly 300 percent in 1993 to almost 60 percent in 1994 and
the budget deficit was about 2 percent of GDP; consumer subsidies were entirely eliminated.
Substantial progress was made in liberalizing price setting and in aligning energy prices to world
market prices. Further actions remain to be taken, however, in reducing the Government's role in
price setting, and in maintaining energy prices at levels agreed to under SAL formulae. The number
of export restrictions were reduced by about 90 percent. The privatization targets of the SAL were
met, although a year later than expected, with about 3000 small shops and businesses privatized as
well as about 600 medium- and large- scale enterprises. Although the Government has since
developed a mass privatization program, a lengthy design and legislative course has slowed the
momentum of privatization. Measures taken by the Government to reinforce and maintain enterprise
financial discipline resulted in a significant reduction in the aggregate enterprise "arrears to turnover"
ratio from 40 percent to about 12-14 percent. Although this technically did not meet the SAL
criterion of 7.5 percent, progress was considered sufficient to allow release of the second tranche.
Achieving enterprise discipline remains, nonetheless, a continuing issue for securing stabilization
gains and achieving efficiency. A public investment unit was created as agreed under the SAL, and
served effectively to filter entries to the capital budget. The areas of activity of the RAs was clarified
and the number of RAs subsequently reduced by 50 percent. And finally, a new unified family
benefits was instituted by abolishing a tax credit for employees with children and making the child
allowance universal and equal for all children.
viii.   The SAL was ambitious and complex, with a large number of agreements to be fulfilled. In
retrospect, it appears clearer that while the SAL did meet its objectives, a simpler design might have
been considered. Even so, the core elements of stabilization, price liberalization, privatization and
financial discipline would, almost certainly, have been part of any adjustment operation, as actions on
each issue complemented and reinforced actions in other areas. These, indeed, were precisely the
areas in which implementation difficulties were experienced, and would likely have been experienced,
even in a less complex operation.
Implementation Experience
ix.    Implementation of the SAL was satisfactory, although delays were experienced. The loan
became effective in July 1992 and the first tranche was released upon effectiveness, and disbursed by
March 1994 (with almost the entire tranche disbursed by October 1993). After an extension of the
closing date by a year, due largely to the change in Government, the second tranche was released in
April, 1994--an interval of 21 months (see para xii below)--and was fully disbursed by December 31,
1994.
x.    The most important factor affecting implementation of the SAL was the fact that the loan was
negotiated with one Government and implemented by another.



- iv -
xi.   The new Government that took power in November 1992 was elected on a platform to
continue reform measures. While initially surprised by the breadth and scope of commitments under
the SAL, the Government moved rapidly to establish "ownership." Understandably, however,
through much of the ensuing period, the Government was in continuous negotiation with the Bank
over these commitments, and needed time to understand and accept those commitments; eventually,
policies and programs were put in place.
xii.  Implementation of the core SAL actions was not smooth. Macroeconomic conditions
deteriorated sharply in 1993, as the Government attempted to dampen domestic inflation by
controlling the nominal exchange rate while maintaining highly negative real interest rates.
Credibility eroded as the exchange rate became increasingly overvalued, a flight from domestic
currency accelerated and inflation soared to 300 percent. In late 1993. measures were taken to
restore consistency in the application of policy instruments, and the outcome was a much improved
performance in 1994. The same worries about domestic inflation also led to protracted discussion of
price liberalization measures; while a substantial deregulation occurred in mid-1993, the Bank
assessed this as insufficient for tranche release, and a side-letter was provided by the Government
signalling its intention to withdraw further from price regulation by early 1994. The agreement to
reduce the volume of inter-enterprise arrears to a measured ratio to enterprise turnover, was initially
designed as one indicator of increasing financial discipline. It was much criticized by the Government
and, indeed, the Bank's Board had urged staff not to apply the criterion mechanistically. (The
Romania SAL was the first to tackle this issue.) While the Bank worked closely with the Government
to establish the policies and programs that would harden budget constraints, inevitable lags as policies
took effect meant that supporting evidence of adjustment such as plant and product line closures,
redundancies and the like, took time to develop. Bank supervision through the life of the loan was
continuous and intense, and was much aided by the Bank Resident Mission.
xiii.  The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory, especially given the changes in
Government - since 1990, twice interrupted by political demonstrations, the lack of experience with
market economics, and insufficient technical and institutional capacities to design and implement
reform programs. Procurement and disbursements went relatively fast once the loan tranches were
released, although unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures, and occasional lack of interest in
supplying trade documents by newly formed trade companies sometimes caused difficulties.
Summary of Fmdings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xiv.  The SAL was the center of the Bank's dialogue with the three successive Governments;
helped frame the reform agenda for the implementing Government; and attained a high donor
visibility, with progress serving as a barometer of progress in structural reforms. Most of the specific
objectives of the SAL were achieved. Moreover, the loan provided the building blocks for further
adjustment lending, and allowed investment lending to proceed. At the same time, the SAL was the
most important resource transfer instrument in the Bank's lending program and contributed to re-
establishing Romania's creditworthiness.



- v -
xv.   The reorientation of vision supported by the SAL towards the development of market
institutions and a market economy has strong political support in Romania and sustainability appears
secure in this regard. Nonetheless, debates remain active in Romania as to the demarcation of the
line between state and market, between control and greater liberalization, and as to the acceptable
pace of reform. Since the loan closed, delays have been experienced in carrying through with price
deregulation and tariff increases; most importantly, after the initial achievements in privatization,
there has been a considerable slowing in momentum, although, as noted, a mass privatization program
has recently been legislated. The policies and programs of the SAL should, then, be regarded as an
important first step in the transition, which need to be consolidated and deepened. While rapid
privatization commands attention, other areas require continuing focus. In particular, macroeconomic
stabilization could be threatened by continuing enterprise losses, and concomitant bank losses. The
Government has a difficult agenda ahead in tackling the problems of chronic loss makers. Repressed
inflation through delayed tariff increases, and incomplete price liberalization, carries substantial
economic costs, and failure to take action will only purchase a temporary postponement of difficulties.
xvi.   A number of lessons emerged from the experience with the Romania SAL:
(i)    political commitment and the early establishment of "ownership" by the implementing
Government, were key to the specific successes in achieving the SAL's major
objectives;
(ii)   early macroeconomic stabilization is vital, and is possible even in severely distorted
environments if consistency in the use of instruments is applied. The benefits brought
by stabilization to all aspects of the reform process, and to growth, have been
substantial and salutary;
(iii)   allowing large loss makers to enter bankruptcy and close down, often with large
regional employment implications, has proven very difficult. This issue does not
have an easy answer. It is likely to remain close to the center of the adjustment and
reform agenda for some time to come; and
(iv)   institution building in all functions and endeavors of the market economy was a key
part of the SAL. While there has been improvement in the technical and
administrative capacities in the public administration in the last three years, much
remains to be done.
xvii.  A number of SAL actions are being supported by activities outside the SAL.
Macroeconomic stabilization efforts are being supported by an IMF SBA/STF that has been
programmed to run to the end of 1995. Other SAL actions are supported by ongoing or planned Bank
operations. The energy pricing actions are reaffirmed in a Petroleum Subsector Rehabilitation Loan
and a planned Power Rehabilitation Project. Support for investment programming functions are
routinely included in investment operations in order to strengthen institutions. The social safety net is
further developed and sustained in an Employment and Social Protection Project. The reform of the
enterprise environment is being supported through the development of a Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan. This second adjustment operation is specifically designed as a follow up to
the SAL and will contain measures that seek to accelerate privatization, provide further impetus to the
hardening of budget constraints, and strengthen the financial system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[Loan no. 3481-RO]
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.    In December 1989, after a violent overthrow of the old regime (unique to the revolutions of
Central and Eastern Europe) Romania began the process of transformation to a market economy.
Among the most centrally controlled and managed of all economies in the region, Romania was little
prepared for the shocks of transition and reform. The economy was heavily industrialized, intensive
in the use of energy and materials, and with a concentration in inefficient heavy industries. The
decision to repay all foreign debt, taken in 1982, bequeathed an economy characterized by obsolescent
technologies and severely run down for lack of imports. To effect the capital transfer, consumption
was severely compressed through the eighties. In the latter half of the decade, investments were
directed at huge showcase projects. External contacts, moreover, were sharply curtailed, leaving
Romanian society isolated from the rest of the world.
2.    The Government that was elected in May 1990 suffered from a crisis of legitimacy that
affected Romania's immediate post-revolution political settlement. Beset by popular disaffection
manifested in near permanent student demonstrations, it was overthrown in September 1991 by miners
rioting in Bucharest over declines in their real wages. It was replaced by a transition Government
that lasted a year, until elections in September 1992 saw the election of a Government that has lasted
through the present. This last Government initially possessed a precarious tenure as it did not enjoy a
Parliamentary majority and has governed through coalitions. SAL preparations were begun under the
first Government; the loan was negotiated with the second, and was largely implemented by the third.
The three Governments have shared two common approaches to economic management; first, a
preference for gradualism in reform in an effort to avoid sharp economic shocks that could affect the
delicate political equilibrium; and second, a concern that the population be protected from the social
costs of transition.
B.    Macroeconomic and Reform Background to the SAL
3.    In 1990, in the immediate aftermath of the revolution, Romania embarked upon expansionary
demand policies to meet pent-up demand for consumer imports. In combination with the collapse of
the CMEA, and a sharp reduction in convertible currency exports, the trade balance swung from a
surplus of $2 billion in 1989, to a deficit of $3 billion in 1990. By the end of the year foreign
reserves were fully depleted. Accompanied by a loss of internal economic coordination as central
planning was dismantled without replacement by markets, and disruptions caused by the spontaneous
breakup of collective farms, output declined by about 20 percent. Prices were controlled for most of
the period, however, and little inflation was experienced.
4.     1he Government's reform agenda. The Government that took power in May 1990 adopted a
comprehensive reform program that encompassed the three broad pillars of stabilization, systemic and
structural reform, and social protection. A two-tier banking system with an independent central bank
was quickly established and the powers of line ministries curtailed and functions redefined. The MoF
shed the role of financing enterprise investment programs, and began the process of developing a



market-oriented tax system. Enterprises were divided into RAs or public utility type agencies which
were expected to remain in public ownership, and commercial companies (CCs) that were to be
privatized. An innovative privatization program, was legislated through which 30 percent of the
equity of commercial enterprises was distributed to citizens through private ownership funds with the
remaining 70 percent held by a Social Ownership Fund, to be privatized within seven years. A
comprehensive land reform, stimulated initially by spontaneous privatization of cooperative land,
resulted in 80 percent of agricultural land being privately owned. An unemployment fund was
created and a process of pension reform begun.
5.    In October 1990, Romania initiated the first of a sequence of a gradual price liberalizations.
Gradualism was intended to prevent "excessive" rises in food and raw materials prices, discipline
monopoly power, and dampen inflation while minimizing economic disruptions. A stabilization
program was adopted (supported by the IMF), in which tight monetary and fiscal policies were
accompanied by an initial devaluation and the adoption of a dual exchange rate system. Gradualism
in price liberalization, however, created considerable uncertainty in price formation, and fed
inflationary expectations that were signaled and amplified in a growing divergence between the
official and parallel exchange rates. Further "liberalization" episodes in 1991 only added to the
uncertainty and inflation mounted much more rapidly than programmed, to 161 percent. Moreover,
enterprises, unused to contract formation rules and often with imprecise governance arrangements,
began to accumulate substantial arrears to suppliers that posed a serious threat to economic
functioning and financial stability. At the end of 1991, inter-enterprise arrears amounted to almost 80
percent of enterprise turnover. In view of the deteriorating macroeconomic situation tranche releases
from the IMF SBA/CCFF facilities were held in abeyance.
6.    The Government that assumed power in September 1991 unified and devalued the exchange
rate. In the face of considerable political tensions and civil unrest it issued a price decree that slowed
price liberalization. The arrears were tackled through a "global compensation scheme" orchestrated
by the central bank in which an injection of credit into the financial system allowed enterprises to net
out their claims on each other. While this did not, in the event, result in a substantial expansion of
overall credit, some banks nonetheless were left holding loans to enterprises that would otherwise
have been unable to pay their debts.
7.     World Bank Role. The World Bank has played an important role in Romania's transition.
The Bank country strategy has been to help promote stabilization and structural reform; to help
finance balance of payments requirements; and to help re-establish Romania's creditworthiness
through supporting programs of adjustment and reform.
8.    A 1990 economic mission provided policy makers with a comprehensive survey of the state of
the economy and recommendations on the content of a reform program. The SAL was developed
from the findings of this mission. A social sectors mission similarly surveyed the social sectors. In
response to a Government request for immediate financial assistance, the Bank mounted a Technical
Assistance and Critical Imports Loan (approved in June 1991) followed by a loan to the Health Sector
(approved in October 1991).
9.    The Bank's SAL (approved in June 1992) was one of a number of international initiatives to
support Romania's reform program, including a second IMF Stand-by Agreement (SBA for SDR 314
million) and a Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF for SDR 76.8 million). The
Export-Import bank of Japan (JEXIM) provided $100 million in co-financing, and was joined (after
second tranche release) by a Netherlands grant of 15 million guilders. Bilateral assistance was also
provided under G-24 auspices.
10.   Following the SAL the Bank has mounted a number of lending operations, including to
agriculture, industry, energy, transport and the social sectors. Under preparation for some time has



been a Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan, that has been designed as a follow-up to the
SAL. The Bank has been an important provider of advice and technical assistance in almost all areas
of reform and sectoral development. As Romania has found it difficult to mobilize external support,
the Bank organized two Consultative Group meetings, in 1993 and 1994 respectively.
11.   Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program. The situation facing policy makers and the
Bank at the inception of the SAL was certainly complex (see above). It was recognized that the
paramount requirement was to reduce inflation and stabilize the economy. In this regard, the country
was facing an incomplete and faltering price liberalization, a potentially explosive consumer subsidy
bill, and the threat of a re-emergence of enterprise arrears that could undermine financial stability.
12.    Broadly conceived, the SAL had two main objectives: first, to support stabilization efforts,
while maintaining the momentum of price liberalization and the progressive opening of the economy;
and second, to further structural reforms and to expand private ownership. An ancillary objective
was to provide balance of payments support to an exchange constrained economy. Recognizing the
importance of a social safety net, the Bank assured itself during loan preparation that the requisite
financial and institutional facilities for unemployment and social assistance were in place; safety net
agreements were not then explicitly incorporated into the loan.
13.   At the core of the SAL was the view that hard budget constraints should be imposed upon
enterprises. It was accepted by the Government and the Bank that further enterprise evasion of
financial discipline could vitiate attempts at stabilization and impede growth over the medium term.
In addition to (i) complementing IMF supported stabilization efforts, by seeking the elimination of
consumer subsidies, the strategy then called for: (ii) accelerated introduction of a liberal market
environment, through greater price and trade liberalization and greater internal competition; (iii) the
enforcement of financial discipline through Government actions against non-compliant firms to be
measured by an arrears target; in addition, the SAL supported the submission of a Bankruptcy Law to
Parliament, and the development of restructuring strategies for certain industrial sectors (chemicals,
machine building and metallurgy) systemically affected by the transition; and (iv) rapid privatization,
as measured by specific targets. In addition, the SAL supported (v) the strengthening of public sector
management by reducing the number of RAs and through establishing a public investment unit.
Finally, (vi) the SAL sought the establishment of a unified family benefits system.
14.   The Romania SAL was ambitious and complex. The design, nonetheless, was appropriate in
the circumstances. The core areas of focus--stabilization, price liberalization, financial discipline, and
privatization-were all intimately related, and represented the critical reform issues facing the
economy. The SAL, moreover, focussed on real reforms, rather than contenting itself with simply
establishing a legal and institutional framework that would permit such reforms. Failure to tackle
these areas concurrently would have established an incomplete agenda and weakened performance and
impact.
C.    Achievement of Project Objectives
15.   The SAL was successful in achieving its objectives, although unevenly across the many areas
of involvement. Progress was slower than anticipated, and there has been some weakening of
momentum in key areas since the release of the second tranche.
16.   Macroeconomic Stabilization. This component of the SAL, with strong leadership from the
IMF, has been among the most successful. At the time the loan closed on December 31, 1994,
Romania was closer to achieving macroeconomic stability than at any period in the previous four
years.



- 4 -
17.     The path to greater stability has been difficult, and encompassed a complex interplay
between fiscal adjustment, price liberalization, credit and interest rate management, and exchange rate
policies. In the course of 1993, the new Government accomplished a salutary fiscal adjustment by
reducing the deficit to zero, from 7 percent in 1992, largely through a near complete elimination of
consumer subsidies (a SAL condition). A major liberalization of price setting took place in May
1993, although controls remained on a number of important products. The rate of exchange
remained controlled and the rate allowed to appreciate, while the level of interest rates for both
deposits and lending, for most of the year, were highly negative. These policies eroded credibility: a
flight from domestic currency accelerated, widening divergences between the official and parallel
market rates were experienced, and inflation soared to 300 percent. The second IMF SBA/CCFF
operation was then unable to be completed.
18.   In late 1993 the Government, alarmed by the failure of inflation to recede, took steps leading
to the free determination of the exchange rate in an interbank auction, as well as raising interest rates
to positive levels in real terms. With the adoption of these measures a new IMF Stand-by
(accompanied by a drawing from the Systemic Transformation Facility) was put in place in April
1994.
19.    Macroeconomic performance improved substantially in 1994. By the end of the year inflation
had been reduced to almost 60 percent. The budget deficit was about 2 percent of GDP. The current
account deficit in the balance of payments was I percent compared with the previous high of almost 9
percent of GDP in 1990; exports, in particular, were performing well after having to absorb the shock
of the disappearance of the CMEA. Unemployment had risen to almost 11 percent of the labor force,
some 6 percentage points higher than in the year the SAL was signed; real wages were some 60
percent of pre-reform levels. The output decline was halted in 1993 with GDP growing by 1.3
percent, with a further increase of 3.4 percent in 1994.
20.   Systemic and Structural. A number of important accomplishments of the SAL were recorded
in the area of systemic reform.
a. Prices and Trade
(i)    By mid 1993, price setting in the economy was largely liberalized and consumer
subsidies eliminated; a 30 percent margin restriction on markups was removed for
most products, and a 90-day notification period for price changes was reduced to
30 days. As in market economies, utility prices remained subject to control.
Controls were retained on low-quality bread, and on milk. The Government
continued to establish procurement prices for major agricultural commodities, but
introduced "premium" payments to farmers to approximate state prices with prices
obtainable in the free market. While deregulation was substantial it fell short of
full SAL compliance, as price setting for a number of products continued to be
controlled. A side-letter by the Government undertook further liberalization by
March 1994. This regime of improving price liberalization continued until late
1994 when, however, the Government re-introduced regulations on price
formation on a small number of food items.
(ii)    The SAL established a number of agreements concerning energy prices in an
attempt to align these more closely with economic cost. These agreements were
attained in the course of 1993 and maintained through the first half of 1994.
There has been a substantial lag, however, in raising domestic energy prices since
the release of the SAL second tranche.



(iii)   The SAL sought the elimination of most export restrictions, in particular a number
of export bans. These were reduced by about 90 percent during the life of the
loan, and non-binding export quotas opened for the two large remaining items,
wheat and maize.
b. Privatization
(i)    The privatization targets of the SAL were met, although a year later than
expected. The loan called for the privatization of some 3,000 shops, service
businesses, restaurants, workshops and the like (the so-called "small
privatization"), as well as for the privatization of about 20 selected state-owned
firms. By closing date, the Government had privatized over 3,000 small firms
and almost 600 medium and large CCs.
c. Financial Discipline
(i)    Progress was made in hardening the budget constraints for enterprises.
Implementation, however, proved difficult. The Government designed a system
for monitoring enterprise financial results on a monthly basis, allowing for a
better control of arrears. A set of 30 enterprises accounting for the largest
amount of arrears, losses and compensation credits, was initially selected for
special monitoring. However, the Government experienced difficulties in taking
action on these initial 30 enterprises, mainly due to the high political cost of
restructuring, liquidating or privatizing them. A Restructuring Committee was
then created and, by end-1993, a "financial isolation" exercise established. The
Government selected another set of 30 enterprises to be placed under special
surveillance and an Action Plan for restructuring, downsizing, labor shedding and
liquidation or/and privatization was developed. The Parliament adopted a law
allowing for easier declaration by creditors of debtor insolvency, while the
Government declared a number of firms insolvent. These actions coupled with
the introduction of interest on arrears had a strong demonstration effect. The SAL
prescribed a reduction in the aggregate enterprise arrears to turnover ratio from 40
percent to 7.5 percent. In the event, the ratio was reduced to about 12-14 percent
and performance was judged sufficient to proceed with second tranche release.
d. Public Sector Strengthening
(i)    A public investment unit was created and staffed as agreed under the SAL. A
number of investments of dubious economic merit were suspended as a result of
the work of this unit. Moreover, only investments included in the Public
Investment Program were provided budgetary support.
(ii)    The Government clarified the areas of activity appropriate for the RAs (essentially
conditions of natural monopoly), and reduced their number by almost 50 percent.
Further rationalization is warranted.
e. Family Benefits
(i)    Under the SAL-supported actions, a new unified family benefits system was
established in October 1993, abolishing the previous inefficient duplicative family
benefits program.



-6-
D.    Implementation Record: Compliance and Constraints
21.   Implementation of the SAL was satisfactory, although delays were experienced and there was
an uneven pace of adoption of measures. The loan became effective in July 1992 and the first tranche
was released upon effectiveness; all but US$ 1.8 million of the initial tranche of US$ 250 million was
disbursed by October 1993, and the tranche was fully disbursed by March 1994. After an extension
of the closing date by a year, largely due to the change in Government, the second tranche was
released in April, 1994-an interval of 21 months--and was fully disbursed by December 1994.
22.   The most important factor affecting implementation of the SAL was the fact that the loan was
negotiated with one Government and implemented by another.
23.   The new Government that took power in November 1992 was elected on a platform to
continue reform measures. The Government did not, however, enjoy a Parliamentary majority.
Although initially surprised by the breadth and scope of commitments under the SAL, the
Government moved rapidly to establish "ownership." Nonetheless, through much of the ensuing
period, the Government was in continuous negotiation with the Bank over these commitments, and
needed time to understand and accept those commitments; eventually policies and programs were put
in place.
24.   Three of four central components of the SAL--macroeconomic stabilization, price
liberalization and enterprise financial discipline--proved difficult to implement. As noted earlier,
macroeconomic stabilization was delayed by a full year as the Government tried to dampen domestic
inflationary pressures by allowing the exchange rate to become seriously overvalued; this policy
mistake was abetted by holding interest rates negative in real terms, and continuing attempts to
directly influence key domestic prices. Fragmentation in decision making was probably the source of
the failure to apply consistent policies. Similar difficulties were experienced in price liberalization,
where ever present anxieties about monopolistic pricing, excessive speculation, and impacts of price
increases on already declining living standards generated resistance to rapid price deregulation.
25.   Imposing financial discipline proved especially difficult. The Government moved
commendably early to establish an "early warning" monitoring system. However, the law
establishing ownership funds had explicitly placed control over state-owned enterprises in a "State
Ownership Fund" (SOF), that answered to Parliament and not to the Government and that, further,
had been given charge of enterprise restructuring activities. Moreover, the enterprises themselves,
having been commercialized and granted autonomy in operations, were resistant to what they
perceived as a reimposition of central monitoring. Much internal discussion and negotiation was then
required before an agreed set of policies could be implemented. The inevitable lags as these policies
took effect meant that supporting evidence of enterprise adjustment such as plant and product line
closures, redundancies, improvements in financial performance and the like, took time to develop.
26.   In the period before the release of the second tranche two features of the SAL came in for
especial criticism. First, the Government suggested that the condition of "maintaining a satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework" was vague and imprecisely defined in advance by the Bank. This
led the Borrower to be unsure which specific actions or outcomes would prove adequate. Explicit
macroeconomic "performance criteria" were, in fact, deliberately eschewed at the time of Board
presentation, on the grounds that these could only be poorly defensible guesses in circumstances of
such deep structural and systemic change. It still remains unclear that the ex ante provision of
quantitative outcome indicators should have been provided or, had they been provided, performance
would have proved sufficiently satisfactory to advance second tranche release, especially in the
absence of agreement with the IMF.



27.   A second criticism was that the arrears to turnover ratio, that carried the burden of judging
whether financial discipline was being achieved, was mechanistic and could not capture qualitative
dimensions of progress. On this latter criticism the Bank agreed; indeed the Board had instructed
staff at time of approval not to apply the criterion too rigidly. It took a number of visits by Bank
supervision missions to develop the modalities by which financial discipline would be introduced.
Part of the difficulties lay in agreeing to the measures that should be undertaken; in part, difficulties
were experienced in establishing the legal and institutional framework and the technical competencies
to bring the necessary discipline to bear. Once it became apparent, however, that the adopted
measures were in fact achieving their intended effect, the Bank saw no objection to the release of
second tranche even though the precise arrears criterion had not been met.
E.    Bank Performance
28.   Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank entered into close and constant interaction with
counterparts in all stages of the SAL, with especially intense supervision. All three Governments
welcomed the financial and technical support provided to Romania's reform program. At the design
and negotiation stages, successive missions interacted closely with the Prime Minister and relevant
members of the Cabinet. This visible high profile at the preparation stage was instrumental in
allowing consensus on design to be achieved. It was recognized that the arrears problem presented a
new challenge for adjustment policy, one not met before in Bank policy lending. The approach in the
Romania SAL was comprehensively discussed by staff and by senior Bank management before being
agreed to by the Romanian authorities.
29.   Relations with the IMF were close at all stages in the SAL cycle with staff from the Bank
often overlapping with Fund missions and vice versa. The dialogue was especially close in late 1993,
when the IMF and the Government agreed on a new Standby, thus opening the way for release of
second tranche once the Fund's prior conditions had been met.
F.    Borrower Perfornance
30.   Borrower performance was satisfactory, especially given the difficulties of obtaining domestic
political consensus, and that vital technical capacities had to be built during implementation. The
policy dialogue involved the Prime Minister and his Cabinet as well as senior officials from the MoF,
line Ministries, Government agencies and the NBR. The MoF was the implementing agency. At the
time implementation commenced the Government established an Interministerial Committee of all
institutions involved. This greatly facilitated the dialogue--both internally as well as with the Bank.
31.   Disbursement/Procurement Issues. Procurement and disbursements proceeded relatively
quickly once the loan tranches were released. The loan proceeds financed all imports excepting a
usual negative list of ineligible items such as arms, nuclear reactors and parts, and luxury products.
Procurement proceeded satisfactorily even though many Romanian foreign trade companies found it
difficult to comply with Bank procedures; difficulties were occasionally encountered as there were no
incentives for the trade companies to provide import documents.
G.    Sustainability
32.   In the broadest sense, the SAL supported a number of actions of central consequence to a
transformation from one economic system to another. The reorientation of vision towards market
institutions has strong political support in Romania and this is very unlikely to change. Moreover,
the actions supported by the SAL--stabilization, price and trade liberalization, financial discipline,
privatization have become better appreciated--both as goals, as well as the instruments required to
achieve them. As may be expected, however, debates remain active in Romania as to where the line
should be drawn between market and state, between intervention and laissez faire, between control



- 8 -
and deregulation, and also as to the pace at which reforms are politically sustainable. Occasional
retreats have been experienced with respect to SAL accomplishments, and the momentum of
privatization in particular, has visibly slowed. While the SAL's achievements are many, it is clearly
only the first step in a long process.
33.   Consolidation and deepening is required in a number of areas for the economy to be placed on
a path of sustainable long term growth. Macrostabilization, despite the accomplishments, remains of
concern as financial discipline is not firmly rooted in the behavior of all economic agents; if
enterprise losses are ultimately monetized, renewed instability is a likely outcome. In this regard
the Government has a difficult agenda in tackling the problems of chronic loss makers and devising
programs for liquidation. Price liberalization has advanced but further deregulation is required if the
appropriate relative prices are to guide decision making. Moreover, a propensity to delay tariff
increases for public utility services, albeit often rooted in concern for living standards, has become
increasingly evident and should be replaced by clear rules of automaticity. The focal point of future
reforms must be privatization. A Mass Privatization Program has recently been legislated, and
contains the potential for rapid divestiture, and a shift of controlling interests to the private sector.
To secure the full potential benefits of the law will require imagination, and most of all, political
will.
34.   A number of SAL actions are being supported by activities outside the SAL.
Macroeconomic stabilization efforts are being supported by an IMF SBA/STF that has been
programmed to run to the end of 1995. Other SAL actions are supported by ongoing or planned Bank
operations. The energy pricing actions are reaffirmed in a Petroleum Subsector Rehabilitation Loan
and a planned Power Rehabilitation Project. Support for investment programming functions are
routinely included in investment operations in order to strengthen institutions. The social safety net is
further developed and sustained in an Employment and Social Protection Project. The reform of the
enterprise environment is being supported through the development of a Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan. This second adjustment operation is specifically designed as a follow up to
the SAL and will contain measures that seek to accelerate privatization, support more specific policies
and programs to enforce financial discipline, and strengthen the financial system.
H.    Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned
35.   The SAL was at the center of the Bank's dialogue with successive Governments for a period
of three years, with other international institutions and financiers, and often the press, looking on to
receive the Bank's verdicts on the progress of structural reforms. As a result, the loan acquired a
prominence and visibility unusual even for loans of this type. While good relations were maintained
with the implementing Government during the period, there were occasional times-especially in the
period during which the second tranche release was delayed--when strains were experienced.
Moreover, other Bank lending was delayed because of the delay in tranche release. Despite these
difficulties, the SAL can be judged a success. It proved to be a principal instrument in framing the
immediate reform agenda for a new Government while providing multiple areas of policy dialogue for
the Government and the Bank. Most of the specific objectives of the SAL were achieved. Moreover,
the loan provided the building blocks for further adjustment lending, and allowed investment lending
to proceed. Finally, the SAL secured an important resource transfer, including through co-financing,
at a time when Romania was finding it very difficult to borrow abroad.
(i)    Political commitment and the early assumption of ownership by the implementing
Government has been key to success. This commitment was maintained despite
difficulties in obtaining domestic political consensus, and even when there were
differences of opinion about actual policies as well as speed of implementation. The
sustainability of the changes brought about the SAL require continuing commitment,
even in the absence of policy agreements embodied in a new adjustment operation.



- 9 -
(ii)   The change in Government necessitated a substantial investment by the Bank in
consultation and supervision. Flexibility in implementation became important in these
circumstances, while holding fast to the core vision of the SAL.
(iii) The SAL was ambitious, comprehensive and complex. This proved cumbersome to
the implementing Government, and increased supervision burdens. In retrospect,
while greater simplicity might have been sought, it is unlikely that any SAL prepared
at the time could have avoided addressing the complementarities that existed betwoon
the major areas of focus-stabilization, price liberalization, financial discipline, and
privatization. The implementation difficulties experienced in some of these areas
would then have surfaced in a less complex loan.
(iv)   The central importance of early macroeconomic stabilization emerges as a key lesson
of the SAL. In retrospect, inflation was used as a solvent for formidable political and
social demands in the wake of a collapsing economy and major systemic change.
While the political difficulties intrinsic to Romania's transition may have been
underestimated, nonetheless, the delayed stabilization amplified uncertainty and
postponed recovery. The vital importance of consistency in applying the instruments
of macroeconomic policy also emerged as a lesson of the Romanian experience.
Gradualism in price liberalization, accompanied by a controlled exchange rate
overvaluation, and highly negative real interest rates eroded credibility in economic
management and placed the economy on the brink of hyperinflation.
(v)    The SAL supported privatization and achieved its specific agreements in this regard.
Nonetheless, privatization slowed after the initial "targets" were met. Had this been
foreseeable, SAL design should have placed greater emphasis on achieving a more
rapid pace of privatization.
(vi)   Allowing large loss making-enterprises to go bankrupt has proven extremely difficult.
TMe SAL attempted to put in place an environment that secures financial discipline,
and was successful in reducing the levels of involuntary inter-enterprise credit.
Nonetheless, large loss makers have managed to stay bankruptcy proceedings. In
parallel, demands for subsidies and new investment monies by the beleaguered
enterprises has been strong, even as the Government budget is pressured by weak
revenue sources and high social expenditures. Some bank portfolios have experienced
continuing strain because of the difficulties of their clients. These problems do not
have an easy, one-dimensional solution. They are likely to remain close to the center
of the adjustment and reform agenda for some time to come. The Bank's lending
program has been developed to help address the difficulties.
(vii)  Institution building in all functions and endeavors of the market economy was a key
objective of the SAL. While there has been some improvement in human resources
and technical and implementation capacities in the public administration in the last
three years, much remains to be done.



- 10-
PART H. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assesments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    LoanlCredit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Project Financing
Table 7:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 11 -
Table 1: Summary of Ausesments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                    EXl           El           El              
Sector policies                   El            LXI          El             0
Financial objectives              El                          l             E O
Institutional development           l           LX           E               O
Physical objectives               E             E            E              IX]
Poverty reduction                 E3            0            E              El
Gender issues                      0            E            1              IX!
Other social objectives                         El           E              E
Environmental objectives          E             El           El
Public sector management          EI                  E       l             El
Private sector development         O                         El             El
Other (specify)                     l                        El             El
B. Project sustainability           Likely               Unlikely           Uncertain
IS]                  13                   ElO
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                            ] O               E
Preparation assistance            E                     L                    0
Appraisal                                               E                   El
Supervision                       El                                        E
D. Borrower performance       Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                        Ol                   0L                  0
Implementation                    El                                        El
Covenant compliance               E                     I                   El
Operation (if applicable)         E                                         El
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory UnsatisfactoryHighly Unsatisfactory
El           E            El              ElO



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Crodit Title                        Purpose              Year of                  Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. TACI                      Critical imports financing.    1991       Under implementation. Closing
date extended to December 1995.
Following Operations
1. Petroleum Sector          To reaffirm energy pricing   1994         Under implementation.
actions supported by the
SAL.
2. IDP                       To restructure the industrial  1994       Signed March 21, 1995.
sector.
3. Employment A Social       To further develop and     1995           Approved on March 7, 1995.
Protection                sustain the social safety net
of the SAL.
4. Power Sector Rehab.        To continue SAL objectives  Proposed     Negotiations completed April
rela  to electricity price    1995       1995.
adjustment.
5. FESAL                     To continue SAL objectives  Proposed      Further preparations for
particularly on funncial  199S           negotiations underway.
reform, categorize fnancial
discipline and privatization.



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                          Dato planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  June 1990              June 1991
Preparation                                  June 1991             October 1991
Appraisal                                    February 1992         February 1992
Negotiations                                 April 1992            April-May 1992
Letter of development policy (if applicable)  N/A                  May 4, 1992
Board prosentation                           May 1992              June 2, 1992
Signing                                      N/A                   June 2, 1992
Effectiveness                                N/A                   July 20, 1992
First tranche release (if applicable)        N/A                   July 20, 1992
Midterm review (if applicable)               N/A                   N/A
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  N/A            April 27, 1994
Project completion                           N/A                   June 21, 1995
Loan closing                                 December 1993         December 31, 1994



- 14 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93      FY94      FY95
Appraisal estimate                                  400.0     400.0     400.0
Actual                                              223.34    320.4     400.0
Actual as % of estimate                              55.8       80.1    100.0
Date of final disbursement                                              12/94
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                     Actual
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Ratio of arrears of SOE to tumover.                7.5%                         12-14%
2.
3.
IL. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.
2.
3.
111. Other indicators rif applicable)
1.
2.
3.
Table 6: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimates
(USS million)                       (US$ million)
Source
Local costs  Foreign   Total        Local costs  Foreign    Total
costs                               costs
1. IBRD/IDA                               -        400.0     400.0            -        400.0      400.0
2. Co financing:
JEXIM Bank                             -        100.0      100.0            -       100.0      100.0
3. Other external sources:
The Netherlands Grant                  -          -         -              -          8.5        8.S
Total                     -       500.0      500.0            -        508.5      508.5
I'Approximate USS equivalent of 15 million guilders.



- 15 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Romania
Structural Adjustment Loan
Covenant               Original      Revised
Agremcnt         Section         Type       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment  Description    Comments
Date         Date     of Covenant
SAL          Section 3.03          1          CD        06/94         10/94     Submission of  All due audit report have
audit annual    been received and found
financial      satisfactory.
statemnents.
Schedule 4 (1)        10        CD         12/92                  Maintenance of Maintained tight fiscal and
macroeconomi  monetary policies and
c framework   implementing reforms in
consistent with  exchange rate system.
the program.
Schedule 4 (2)        10        CD         12/92        05/93      Consumer       Consumer subsidies condition
subsidy        has been satisfied.
reduction
program.
Schedule 4 (3)        10        CD         12192        05/93     Review of       Investment unit has been set
public         up and public unit investment
investment     review condition has been
projects by    satisfied.
investment
unit.
Schedule 4 (4a)       10         CP        12/92           -       Establishment   With depreciation of exchange
of price       rate domestic oil and gas
structure for    prices have fallen below
energy         agreed (formula) levels;
products at    Government has agreed to
parity with    raise prices.
world market
prices.
Schedule 4 (4b)       10         CP        12/92          -       Program to      See Schedule 4 (4a) above.
increase the
price of natural
gas at a level
to cover the
economic cost.
Schedule 4 (4c)       10         CP        12/92          -       Liberalization   Covenant largely fulfilled.
of price       However, price decision of
structure of all  October 1994 introduces new
other products.  regulations for control of
prices of a few food products.
Schedule 4 (5)        10      Dropped      12/92          -       Establishment   This covenant was dropped.
of agency to    Please refer to
enforce anti-   correspondence dated 10/1/93
monopoly laws  and 10/5/93 between the Bank
and regulation.  and Minister
Schedule 4 (6)        10        CD         12/92           -       Elimination of  List of goods subject to
all restrictions  temporary or permanent
and quotas for  export restrictions has been
exports.       reduced by about 90 percent.
Schedule 4 (7)        10        CD         12/92        03/93     Restoration     Achieved but with waiver on
and            the requirement of the ratio of
maintenance of arrear to turnover of SOE
enterprise     be limited to no more than
financial      7.5 percent.
discipline.



- 16 -
Covenant               Origitl    Revised
Agreement       Section         Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment Decription    Comments
Date        Date      of Covenant
Schedule 4 (8)       10        CD         12/92        07/93    Determination   Government has taken action
of criteria for  to limit RA activity by
regie         forcing RAe to i    _orpore as
autonomes      commercial companies and/or
designation.    to spin-off acilltary
operation as commercial
companies.
Schedule 4 (9)       10         C         12/92        07/93    Completion of  SAL covenant fulftled.
3,000 selected
small and 20
medium/large
.pilot,
privatization.
Schedule 4 (10)      10         C         12/92        12/93    Family benefits The preferentil tax credit on
reform         wage of employees with
including tax   children has been abolished.
credit related
to children.
Covemmat type:                                                                           Present Statt
* Accounts/audits                     * Monitoring/reviews                               C - covenant compled with
* Coftnencing                         * Procurement                                      CD - compli.d with afer delay
* Consultation                        * Project implementation arrngements               CP - complied with partially
* Coat recovery/pricing                 (including project coordination units)           NC - not complied with
* Counaeipaut fanding                 * Renedies
* Dam safety                          * Resettlement
* Disbursement definitions/conditions  * Sector policy conditionality:
(including special accounts)          administrative change
* EnSineering                         * Sector policy conditionality:
* Environmental                         budgetary/allocative change
* Facilities maintenance              * Sector policy conditionality: regulatory
* Financial                             change
* General conditions (section 1.01 of the  * Sector policy conditionality: other
Loan or Crdit Agreenent)            * Studies/technical assistance
* Institutional (involving other than  * Subproject/subloan criterai and
project coordination units)           procedurs
* Subsidiray agrements



- 17 -
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                       Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks       USS         Weeks         USS             Weeks         USS
Through appmisal               0.0        0.0       156.8        504.1             162.9       523.4
Apprmiul - Board approval     87.5     282.7         34.5         111.5             34.5       111.5
Board approval - Effectivenes    16.0    51.7        17.2          55.5             16.8         54.28
Supervision                   69.0     235.4         78.0        270.2              64.6       221.8
Completion                     0.0       0.0          8.0         14.4               0.0         0.0
Total                      172.5     569.8        294.5        955.7             278.8       910.9
Dollar budgeting started in FY94 covering latter part of loan supervision. Therefore dollar figures are estimates from
preparmtion to early supervision. Actual completion figures are not yet available as of this time.



- 18 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of  Days                            Rating 2          Types of
Stage of project cycle     Month/Year  Persons   in    Specialization   Implementation Development Problens
Field                     statw       objectives
Through appraisal
Identification               06/91       14      12          E
Preparation                  10/91        2      14          E
Preappraisal                 12/91        5                  E
Appraisal - Board approval    02/92        6       14         E
Board approval - Effectiveness
Supervision                   11/92        1       19         E             -               -          T
02/93        1      11          E             3              2          T
04/93       2        8          E             -               -         T
07/93        1      14          E             2              2          T
10/93       1       15          E             2              2          T
11/93       1       19          E             -              -          T
03/94       1        3          E             -              -          T
03/94       1       3           E             -              -          T
12/94       3       14          E            2               2
Total                                   38      135
1 - Specialization                        2 - Performance Rating              3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                        1 = Minor problems                 F = Financial
E = Economist                             2 = Moderate Problems               T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                  3 = Major Problems                  M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester



Appendix A
Aide Hemosre
SAL SupervisLon MissLon
.       The HismLon wOuld like to express its sincere appreciation and
thanks to the Romanian Government for helping it to speedily
eonclude its work.
2.      The Mission is pleased to note that in most areas of SAL
agreements there continues to be actLve Government efforts to
ensure that the relevant policLes and measures are pursued. Ix
only a few areas is additional attention required.
3.      O Cil and gas prices are now below the levels establlshed by the
formulae under the SAL. The MissLon receLved assuracee from the
Department of Prices and Protection of competitLon that these
prices will be raLsed to the agreed levels in January 1995.
Electrlcity prices are currently in accord with the relevant
agreed formula: however, Lf and as the oxchange rate depreciates,
a corrective adjustment will be needed.
4.      The Mission is pleased to note that there has been a reduction in
the number of export trade reArictions in the past year. In this
sense the SAL agreement on external trade has been fulfilled. The
remaining list of export bans, however, Lncludes wheat and corn.
In view of the two good harvests experienced by the agricultural
sector, the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing to recommend that
an export quota be allowed at least for wheat. The Miss,on goes
further and strongLy recommends that the export bans on
agricultural products be removed. (Any subsidies can, of course,
be remitted before export.) The transmission of international
prices to the domestic economy is being imzeded by these
restrictions, which in turn constrains adjustment in the
agr-icultural sector.
S.      In tee area of general price setting, there is a divergence from
SkL agreements, and action will need to be taken.  DecisLon 729
dated October 21, 1994, introduces price-setting rules for a
nur=er of ccmmodities that have, thus far, not been included among
the goods and services for which special pricing regimes exLst
under the S.L (e.g., energy prices, metals, urban transport).
These new price setting rules -- for meat and meat products, eggs,
edibLe oil ard sugar -- constitute, in the view of the Mission, an.
additional and unnecessary distortion in the arena of liberal
price setting, albeit the Decision is only in effect for 180 days.
Accordingly the Mission recommends, that they be removed as socn
as practicable. Certification of full compliance with SAL
agreements will be necessary for Board presentation. of the FESAL.
6.      Finally, as the comnletion date for the SAL approaches
(December 31, 1994), the Hission began the process of preparing an
Implementation Completion Report for the loan. The Government of
Romania is invited to prepare a document summarizing its
experience with the SAL. This evaluation, accompanied by the
Bank's own evaluatLon will be presented to the IBRD Bcard in June
1995 
Farid Dhanjl
SAL Task Manager
m:\rom\ aidemem. sal
Dec. 17, 1994






m
 
MMmm.M:M..1M:M:M7MMM-M M M:j:M:M:m M. M::M.mmMM .MMMM.MIM M. :!.!:M:::!:m .M MeMmm. -M :m M.mM. . .MMMmm. -M MM...:M:.MMMMMMMM M M MMMM. . . .MM M ''::::M:M:M:M: :.:M:.' : ''MM:M:::::::MM.M:,.MMMmm
M.aMM.IM MMMMMM MMMMMM MMMM MM.:`M:::.M::MM: -  .:!:.-::mmm.mMM:M:.:.:M:M::. :::M.M.mm
M.M. ..M.:mm :.:M--M M.:, ': ::: mM:. :::::::. :,.,M :-:m M:: :: :::: ::M ::.M::"X::':::M-.. . .:M ..M'..M. a- .MM..M M.M
MMM':..:. : ::MMd -MMMM:.::: :M:'M, ::'MM-M':-::::M:'M.,.,: j:j-m- --:M::.:M. M'M M: : M:.::::: : : M : : :  . : M : :M: X: :M::M:M. ::: ::::M:: M.' .'.: mmmm.',m: ..::..,]M... -.j:j.v::M:: ::.:.'.M::.M.':'.': ".::::,::M. mmm'.---.M-'.MII--.M
..MM.:'':M.MMM: M M . : M ' . : . : :::,., M,MMMMMMM::MMM.M.MM::::..:::mM.M.
MMMMMMMMMM:--:.M.::: :M:M.mm..: i:::-IM-:M. . .::M..M.MmMMM M. . . .MMMMmmmMMMM.MMM : M . . : : : : ' :M: :': r : : : : : : : : :: M : M : : : : : : : m :.aFMMMM.M
MMM.M.MM..MM.M-MMMMMM..MMMMMMMMMMMM... . .--
.' :..M.:MM::.M:::m .:::M :M:: :M M M M r M - , . : :'.'. . M M'MM. . .MMM
MM.MII.MMMMMMM... . .Mmm mmmmmmm...M. . . .M .MMM.MMm::-:: :.:.::: .M:: : M.II.MmmmMM.MMIM::o mmMM. . .M..M
.M.-M.:M, mmm -Mmm MMMMmmM'M M.M M .M : MMMM:: M:MM . M:m-. MMMMMMMMMMM..MMM-:-M.MM. :::M : :::.MM:::M:,:,:,: M, ::: :mm.-M-m M M mm,mm.mmmm.m'm-.,M-mm-.-.M.m M-',.M,Mmmm. M,.M,.:::Mmm.mm.mm .. 'Mmmmm .Mmmm.mmmM.. MM .mm.MM.-MM M.mm.. M .M MMM
MM.MM::MMMMMM.:.:::MMMMMM .M : .:::M, '.':MM:.:: M::.Mm:mm,--mm-MMMMMMMMM.M.M.mmMMM .M. . .MMMMM . MM.MMMM.MM.:M.-MMM. . . .m MMM. ::M
MMMMMMM.MI.MMMMM:mMMM:mm:::::m .:M:MMMMMMMM:MMM'Mmm .M :-M.:M,M'. , : : ::mMr:M:MMMMMMMMMMMMM.M.MMM.MMMMmmm.m: :rM-.:M:.M. .::, ':.:MM!!: :: :: :::::: ;!; ]I
MMMMMM M:M.MM-MMM M.:: :.M . m:M:MM :-':,---MM. . .MMM.::'-'M-MMMM...MMr-: M : : .    :    i : : ] iM;:q
M mmm M .MM.MMMMMMM::M:M.M.MMM:.MMM:M::mmm .:: ::.-M-:M:m M.:..MMM::M:MMmm -.M':M: : M:: :M'M: M:MM-M :M-m .:.:M..M:..-M-M-MMMFMMM.
mmmMMMMMMMMMM. M:-.M..MMMMMM..MM.-MMM.--MMM...M.M.MMMMM. . . . .Mmmm.MMM...M.:.MMMMM:::MMM
'
MMMMMMMMM.MMMM..MMMMMMMMMMMM'MM
M-:.M.MMM..MmMM'MMM. . .M.M:MMMMMM--..----:.. -,-,:,.MM::M,:::MMM
.MMM.M.M.Mmm .M mmm M M ..M M :IM.MM .MM MMMM..M-'M-MMMMMMMMMMM,MM mmmm.MMM .M M M :I'M,,:MMMMM.MMMM.M:M:MM.:.::"MM..MM."%'M:MMMM.MMM.MMM.M.:MMMMM.Mmm...M.M MMM
M. . .MMMMMMMMMMMMM M:MM: a .::MMM. MM'.M:M.M... MM M M.M . . . .MM.M..M M M .MMMM. : . :.MI.MMM . M MMMMMM .M.MMmmmm MMMMMM:':M'M:,:::MMMmmmmmM. . .mmm M MM :MM.M : :,MM .MM::: M . . : : . : : : : ,,Mmm.:M .,.,;M.mm '. 'M''M..:M.MMmm M.-M,M.MM . , Ma .MM
Mmm mmMM::M:mm: M: M:M:. M:M:M:::MM:::.MM--M. :MMM: :MM.-M.MMM.M .M M .MMM..M:.Mm.m. .M.M:.- M - M - M M. . M M M M.Mmmmmm,M.MM.M..:M:M. . .M.M.M.:.mmmmm. M::::MM'M . . .Mmm .. MmmM:Mmmm MMMMMM. . . .MM..M::M MMMmm.mM..M.mmMmm M .M.M M M M M . M M.M. MMMM. . . .M.mm mm mmm.MMMMMM''Mmm.m:m:.,:M:mm. 'M:mm:m,mm:M
MM .mmmmmMM.MMMMMM. MMMMMMM....MMMMM. ..M.Mmm.M.. MMMmm.MMM:MMM...M-:M:MM...MM.M..M.aM:MM--M.M.MMM.M MMM
co 
MMm M -M::M: MMMMMMMM:MM.,M'MMMMMMMMMMM:MMMMM,MMMMMM
MMMM:MM.::M 'MM .: M--M.MMM::-,MM .MMM. .M . MM:: :::::M :M:::,::: ::::MM-M:.M::M:::Mm::mm mmMMM.:m. . .MM.M.mmMmmmM..MMr:-M-
M..mmmMMMMMMMMM:mmM::MMM:IM. M mmm mmM..MM
MMmmm.M:MMMMMM : .MM.MmmMMMmmmmMMMM.:MM:.M.MMMmmMMMmmmmm.MMMMMMMMM.Mmm.mmmm.M..M. MMmmMMMMM.M..MMMa.:..M.MMMMMMMMMmmMMM.MM.MMM
MMMMMMmmMMMMMMmmM
x 
m,::::MMM MMMMMMMMMMM.MM:M. MmmmmmmmMMMMMmm:. . .MM:M .:.M MMMMM.:::MMMM:M:MM.-MMM.mmM-MMMMmmm.MMM:,-MMM rMM:::::MMM' 'MM'MM M.MM.MMM
M.M.MMM.M.MMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMM :M.mmMMmm M . MMMM.MM-MMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMM.MMMMM::MM:MM..MMM.'
MM.MMMMM MMMMMMMMmmMmm mmm .M M M MM:M::M M MMMMMMMMMmmMMMMMmmmm mmMMM MMMMMMM.MMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMM.mmMM.MMMMMMMmm mmmM.M.M.M:M.M--:-M m-mM..MMmmMMMMMMMM.MMMM
la 
M,:-M::M. M M MMM :MMM . .:MMMMMMM.MMMMM M MMMMMMMMIMMMmmMM..Mmmm M M M MM:MMMM .MMM,MMMMM.MMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMM. MM MM .MM M. M .:MMMMM.M.:mmMMM mmmm
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM:MMMMM :M .M.MMMM rmMMMM.M.M.MMMMMMMM.MmmmM.M mmmMMM.M M M M . M M MM:: M .M :::--MM M MMMMMMMM.mM
r_ 
MMMMMMMMMMM M MM .MmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM. . .mmmmmmMMM...MMM.mmM. MMMMMMMMMMMMM.mmMMM :MMMMMMMmm.MMMMMMMMMMMM.MMmm.MMMMMMMMM::M:M.M:::
a ) 
OL 
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM .mmMM.MMMMMM MMMM M.MMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.mmMMMMmmmMMMM.M.mmmMMMMMM
MMIMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMM
M MMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmMMMM.MMMMIMMMmmmMMM.MMMMMMMMMM,.MMMMmm % MMMMMMMMMMM.
M.mmMM MMM MMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMM M..MM MMMMmmm:M:MMMM .MMMMMMMmmMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MmmmMMMMMM.MMMM:M:MMMMMmmm
.IMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMM MM..mm . .M. MMM.MM..
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM,MMMM.MM
-i 
MM MM . :MMMMMMMMM MM MMM M MM MMMMMMM Mmmm]..MMMMMMMMmmMMMMMMM:MMMMMMmm.MM
. MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMM..MM.MMM.MMMMMMMM MM..MMM
M. . . .mmM.IIM M MI.I'M MM
.MM MMMMMM .MMMMMIM. .M.MMMMM. MM:MMMMMMMMM
..M M . MMMMMMM.MM M MMM .
M:MMM.MMMMMM MMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMM:MMMM.MMMMMMMMMI..M !M :MMM . M:M M .MM M.MMMM: ..mm M MM  M mm M M MM.M.M.M M
MMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMM:M M M.mmm M MMM . mmMMMMMMM..mmmMMM : M :M MMMMMMMM:mmMM M.MMMM.M mmMMMMM MMmmMMM
MM M M MM. M MM MM MMM MMMMM MM MMM M .M :M M MM M M0mm . . MMM M IMMM. M.MMM :M:M:M:M:m :M MM.MMmm '::M:
.MMM MMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMM MM:: : :MMMMMM M .MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.M . M.
MMMMMMM MMMmmMMMMMMM MMMMMMM MM MMMMMMMMM .MMMM MmmMM mmm M MM . .MmmMMMMM:'MMMMMMMMMMMMM. M. mm
.MMM. . .M MMMMMIMMMMMMMMMMMMMM M MMMMM MMMMMMMM M.MMMMMMM. MM M M M M M MM.MM.MMMMMMM M MMMMM. . M-M.MM.MM:.MM :M M MM.MM: :MM.MM.M mmm . MM mmMM:MMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM..MMMmmMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMm qM.MMMMM M M . M M MMM. . . .MM .M MMM: M. ..M MMMM.mmm. . M M. .. M.MM.II IMM
MMMMMMMMM M:. MMMMMMMM M M MMMMMMM MMMMMMM
M.MMMMM . . M:M MMMMM M. MMMMMMM.MMMMM. ..M.MMMMM M. MM'MM
MM M.MMMMMMM MMmmm M M MM M MMMMM MMMM:MMM. MMMMMMMMM M .MMMMMM mmmMMM M .MMMMM.MM M MMM'MMMMM . MMM.MM MMM.MMMMMMM M MM :. M MMM
M M MM MMMMM MM MMmmMM .MMMM MMMMMMMM MMMM
MMMMMM MMMM:MM .::M"MMM. MM M :MMMMMM :M,-MMMMMMMMM. MMM.MMM MM
MMM MMMMM M MmmMmmMM MM MMMMM M .  I .MMMMMMM M MM.MMMmm M MM M.MMMM
MMMMM. .M MI .IIIMzM M. MMMM.
mmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMmm.m MM. MMMMMMMM
MMMMM M M.M MM MM
MM.MMMMMMMMMM M MM.M MMMM M M M. MMMM
MMMMMMMM MM M. mmm M MMMM MM MMMMMMMM M.MMM
MMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMM M MMMMM.MMMMMM .MMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMIM
WM!,MO.
MuMMMMM
MMMM
M .M
M.M
MMMMMM.
MMMMMMMM.
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMM
MMM.MMMMMM
MMMMM MMMMMMMMM.MMMMMmm MMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
M M M M MMMM MM
MMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMM
MMMMM MM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MM MMM M MMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMM . MMMM MMMMMM .M MM mmMMMMMM
M.MMMMM MMMMM.MMMM. . MMMM MMMM MM. MMMMMMM M .MMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMM MM MMMMMMMMMM M M. MMmmMMMMMMMMM
M.MMIM.MIMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMM
MMMM .M
MMMM:..MMM
MMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.mm mm
MMMMMMMM MMM-1MMMMMMMIMMMMMMmm
MM.MMMMMMMMMmmm M MM.M
MMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
:MMMMMMMMM.MMMMM.MM MM.MM..MM
MMMMMMMMMmmMMMMM.MMMMM
MMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMM.M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMM MMMmmMMMM .MM
MMMMMMM:MM:.IMM MMMMMMMM
MMMMmmMM,MMMMMMMMM.MMM
MMMMMMMMMM
MMMMM mm M MMM:MMMMMMMMMM MM
MM44MMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMM .M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MmmmMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMM.M
MMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMM
MMMMmmMMMMMMM
MMMM0M Mmmm;MM MM :M MM mmMM.MMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMM M
MMMMMmmMMMMMM.MMMMMMMM
MMMMMMM M.M MM..MMMMMM :MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMM M M MMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmm M M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMQMMMMMMMMMM.M MMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmM:M.MM
MMMMMMM.MMMMM M MMMMMMMMMM
.IMMMMMMMMM M M.....IMIIIMMMMMMMMM
MMM MMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMM.M M MMMm:MMrMMMMMMMM.MMM.MMMM
MMMMM. M.MMMMMMMMMMMM IMMMMMMM .M M M M:M MMMMMMMMMMmmmmmMMMMmm mmMmm mmMMMMMmmMM MMMMM M MMMM mmmMM MMmmMMMM.mmMM
MMMMMM,MMOMMMM MMM.M MMmmMM MMM .M MmmM: M .M. MM. MMMM.M
M M M MMM M M M M M'M''
MMMMM M.MzMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMM.M ,M m M
MM MMMMMMIIMMMM .MMMMMMM.M M M M MMMMM.MMMMMM. MIM:.M.M
MMMMM M .MM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM M MMMM
MMMMMMMMM ,MMMMMMM MMMMMM
MMMMMMMMIMMMMMMMMMMM. M.
mmMMMMMMMMIxMMMMMMMMMMMM MMM M M.MMM:MM M MMMMM
MM M MM MMMMMMMIMMMMM MMM0*:MM:0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMmmMMM. M
MMMMMI.MM MMM . MMMMMM . MMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MM M MMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMmmmmMM MMMM .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMM :'M ..1111!4MMM.MMMMM MMMMMMM MM MM
MM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
.MMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmMMMMMM M.MMM.
MI MMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMM.M. .MMIMM.MMMMMMMMMMmm.
MM M MMMMMMM MM MMMM
-M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMM. MMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMM M MMmmMM,M: 9 -  M::M IMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMM..MMM.
MMM.IMMM MMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmMM
MMMMMMMM-MMM MMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMM.M
MMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMmmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MIMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMmm.M MMM..MMMIMIIMMMM..MMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMM
MMM.MMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM
MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM-MMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMM..MM.M.MMM..M MMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMmmMMMM
MMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.M
MMMMM.MM.MMMMMM:MMMMMMM
MMMmmMMMMMMMMM.MMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMMMMMMMMMM:MM
MMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMM..MMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmMMM
MMMMMMMM..MMMMI.MMII..IIIMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMM MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMM MMmm M MMMMM MMMM MMM MMMMM ..MMMMMMMMMMM-MMMMMMMMM.MM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMM .MmmMMMMMmmMMM.mm mmmmMM.MMMMMMMMMM:MMMMM.MMMM
MMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMM::-M.MMM.MmmMMMMMMMMMMmmmmmm.MM:MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMM.MMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMM.MMM.MMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.M.MMMMMMMMMMM
.MMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMmm M .MMM MMM . mmmMMMMMMM M M...I..MMMMMIIIMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMM M MMMMMMM . M M mm mmMMMMMM :MMMMMMMMMM: M..MM.MMMMMmm.MMMMM
MMM..MMMMMMMMMMMMM
MM.MMMMM MMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
M.mmMMqMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.M.MM:MMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMmmmMMMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM,MMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMM
..MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmMMMMM.MMMMMMMMM-MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMM..MMMMMMMMMMMMMMM:MMM:MMMMMMMMMMMM.M.MMM
mmMMMMMMM: mmM-MM M M M.MMM: MMM. M MMMMM. . . .MMMMMMM M. .MMMM MMI.MM M MMMM.IMMMmmmmMmm.mMMIMMMMMMMM. MMMMMMMmmmMMMMmmmmMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMM.M.Mmm.
MMM MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM ..MM.MMMMMMMMMMMmmmMMM
MMMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMM.MMMMM
M.MMMMMMMMMM.mmMM M.MMMMM.MMMMM..MMMM..M.M mmMMMmmmMM.MMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMM
MM. . . .MMMM. . . . .MM:MMMMMMMM.MMMMMM.MMMMM.MMMMMMM.mm.MMMM: mmMMmmmM--mm:'. M'..:: -MMM.Mmm.MMMMMM
MMM MMMMMMMMMMMMM:MmmMMMM.MMMM.mMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM:MMMMMMMM.M.M M--MM:M:MM:'MMMM'-MMM..mmMMMmmMM.:MM.M.M.MMMMm.MMM-MMM.MMM.MMM:.MMMMMmm.MMMMMMmmmMM.
M.MMMMIM..MM..MMMMMMM:-.::.Mmm%mmm mom.:.MMMMMMMMMMM.MMMM:MMMM'MMMMMMMMMMMM:MMMM::'MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmM
MMMqMM.M MMmmmmMMMM.:MMMMMMMM.MMM.MM.MMMMM.MM:m.MM.M:MMM:::M., mmmM.MMMMMM..MMMMMIImm mmMMMM
. . .MMMIMmmMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM. MM M M:: M'MMMMMMMMMmM MM-MM MMMMmmMMM... . .M.M . . .MM.MMMM..MMMII:M.M
::, : MMMM::MMMMM-MMMM q:. .MmmmMMMM':MMMMMMMMMmm mmmMMMMM. . . . .M MMM M MMMMMMMMMMMMM. MMMMMMM.MM.- -MM.MMMMM . MMM M.MMMMMMMMM.MMmm mm.MMM.
M.M MMMMM.M: :.mm:m:..M. . . .mmmmMM. . .MMMMMMM.MM"MMMMMM M M M M MMMMMM.MMMMMmmmmmmMMMMMM-mmm mmm mm mmmmM.::MMMMMMMMM:'M.MM::: M .MMM.MMM.MMMMMMMMMMm.mmMMMMmmmM.MMM..mmMMM
MM-b MM.:MMMM:::'MMMMM MM.M :MM:--MMM. MMqMMMMM .MMMMMMMMMMM M :MM:..M:M MMMM .M.MM.MMM. MMMMMM.MMMMM.M..M.Mmm mm.MmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmbm.::MMM:mm mm mmMM:M:::M:m-'MMMMM'MMMMMmmMMMM mmmM.MMMmmMMmmMmm::--M. M: mmMM:M.::::
M.MMM.MM.MM. . .MmM:MMM:MMMMMMmmM.M..::: .mmMMM.mmmmMMmm. MMMMMmmmm.MMMMMMM:MMMM::M:..MMMMmmMMMMMMM,M:
Mmmm.MMMMMMM..MMMMMM.MMMMMMM MMMMMM.:::M-m--M-M:,rmm. .mm:.mm.m, mm, M: M::.MM.:M:M:MMMMMMMMmM.M.MMM..MMMMMM:MMMMMM.mMmmMMMMMMMM
.M.:M:MM M'MM: :MMMM MM::: :M..:.---MMMM.MM.M-MM.M:MMM-M..M'MMMmmMMMmmm M..'MMMMMM. . . .. . .M MM..MMMMMMM
.MM''.M.-MMMM::MM-MM.:.MM.:MMMmmM.MM.MMMMMMM M.IMMMMM
.MMMMMM. . M.M MM .MMM:M.MMM.M.
MM.MMMMMMMM1:MM .Mr  -::.M, M'm M:mMMMM.M :.:M:::m M: mm:m: aIM:MM mmmMMMMMI.MMMMmm mMM..MMM . MMMMMMMM.mmMMM
-,,:M. . .MMM- 'M:.:MM.MMMmmMM. . .MM.,.MM:.MMM..M .::M 'M, ,q:MMMMMMM M..:::: M:M.MMM,MMmm mmmM.MMMMMMMMmmM
MM.MMMmm MM.MMMMMM . :, ,MaMMM .MmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.m mm . . ..MMMMMMMMMMMrMMM IMMM..MMMaMMM.M.mmMMmm mm mmM.Mmm mm
MMMMmmmMMMMMMMM M:MMM :::-MMMM MMMMM M.MMMM::M-MM MMMM. mmmmmMMMMM.MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmm
MMMMM.mmmM.M::MMM-MMMMMMMMMMMMM. . . . .MMMMMM.MM..M
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.MM. MMMMMMMMMMMMMM
mmMMMMMMMM.MM M MMMMMMMMMM. :M::: M:m :::::mmMMMMM. . . .MMMMM M:-MM: M: M:MMI..::; ,.M:]:MM:M:MMmmmmmmmMMmmMmmmmm,:M:MMM::::::M..MMMMMM
MMMM'---MM''--M:MMM:,MM- -M--..MMM.MM M...MMMMMM.:::M:.: : :: ::]::MMMMMMMMM.MMM:M.mmMM::MMMMMMMMM-M---MMMM. . .
mM.mmMMM M M :Mmm. MM.' ''MM-M. . . .M MMMMMMIMMMII. M MM M MM.MM..I.IM. ..MM,MM.M':'MMM'MM .:.
..M.M-, ::::MMM- m M:m, M:Mmm i;;i ::M : :::: .-: M:.::::::,M. . .M ::MMM: : M :..MM .MMM . M MMM
MII,,M.mm mm M.MMM M. M M-M.M- m.MM.:: . M:M:: 'MM .mm MM M MM .M.MM
MMM MMM M:MM MMM MM MM MMMM MM .mmMMMMMM M M: .: M MM .M. MMM M . M .. MM:
MMMMM.M.MmmMMMMM MM .mm mmmmm.MMMMMM-M .. Mmmm M ..M M::Mm . M M mm:: '-MM.M.mm MMM
MM M.: : : . ::MM:::M. M.-M:M:::.M'.MMMMMMMMMMMM M.M MMM'.MMmM::::MMMM MM .MMMmmmM.M..M
.MMM mmm M Mmmm..M.MMMMmm:m M MM- -M..MM:.MM .IMMM:M.M.Mmmmmm. .:MMM:M,M:::Mm:: M. mmmmmmm.MmmmmMmMMMMMMmmm M ..MMMMMMMMMMM.MMMMM MMMM.:.MM. . .MMMMMMM,.::aM:MM
mmm.MMMmm MM':MM M:m M -::::: M:.:M::MM.M.:::-. MmmmmMMm- -MM.M.M::MM . M.MMMM'MM:MMmm.MM:'M':--MMMMMM:M: Mm m:,MMMM.::MMMMMMmmmmmmMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM:m-MMM.:. -MMMMMMM
'.I.MMM:::mm:.::: .: ::.M.mm.M'.M:M-.M.M ..MMMM.M.MM
M- MM::MM.. :M ::::':MM..MMMm m :M- -.MaM: q::M: : :M.MMMMM.:M:MM-m-mMMMM.Mm:MMMMmmMMMMMMMMM
MM Mmm::MM. . .M .Mmm mmm mmmM---:MM:M:M:M::::.MM:Mmm:m:mM.jm:mM:M].:Mm:':M:M:m::': M::.M..M.:M--:MM:M.:M:M:._.:::M:MMM:M::::M:M:: M::-m-:M MMMM:M.M:mmMMmm M-mmm::,MMMM.I MM:m.MM:Mm::::::M:MM. . .MMMMM.MM.mm mm.MmmmmMMMMMMM..MM..::
-':M M:::M :: Mmm -M M.'-m -M :-' M. M .:.M,mm, : :M MM. mmM. M MMMMMMM M . M.MMM .MM%%MMMMMmm mm mmMmmM--..M..M.MmmMMmmmm% mmm.M.:
.M M: M M: :::.:M M-:: M: M mm:mm M M:.::MM . M M M-M MM .. M .M M M MMMMMM . MMM MMM . .mm M, M .M.M.MMMMMM.M.M:M:M MM M.. M mmmmmmm.MM MMM M MMMmq. . .M.MM
-:-- ,.:.::::i ,M:. .M :M]I::--MMM' : :: :. M M.mmm M.::: ...: : .MM ::''M : :-. . . .MMMMMMM:MM .MMMM::MMM 'M MM .mqq:-M mm:M. .MMMM MM.MMmM
M.M . M  MMmmm.MM M M M.MM.. . .MM .MMMM M MMMMMMmmmm mmmmmMMMMM
. M-M M M.Mmm: : :-M' I M M  : : M  r M - M: :M -M':::]]:M- -M  :.-: mm . mmmmmrM:mlMM.M. .Mmm .mm..mm M M ..M. m-mMM.MMM MMMMMMMMMM.MMMMMMMmmMmmM
MMA. .m-mM. MMM Mmm mm .::::i:-'M--'M'Mmmm--M'm-m'mm M.M.Mmm. mm,.M.m.. .-:: --M]m-----M---'---.Mmm.' .'-'' M''MM MMMMM.M.MMmmMmm..M M .mm mmm.MMMMMMMm: M : . : : : . - . - .MMMMM..M.MM MM
.MMM.:M::m::M: ::::: - - ::m: ::. . : : : : : : : : M : M : M : M.:: :M:M: :]I]I::::M]2:i: M.M. M .MMM.. MMMMMMMM.M.Mmmmmm M:mMMM..MMM.MM. . .::M. .MMMMMM.MM
M.- -]!,M,,..MMMM. M:. .1:.:M Mam ::MM..MMMMmm.MMMmm
mm. M.M.::::..M -':--! .MMm-m -M mm--M-:;! .M.'M.- -M:Mmm- -i M.,. M.mm-.M.m .--M---i:!i;;m mmm'M-M mm. . M.. -M. ..M ] M-M mmmmMM.mmmmmmM..Mmm.M
MMMMmmM:,,MM::- M :.:Mm -m-m::MM::,::1MMM.M.MM:::..M:. .MM.:M.MMMMMM. M.M: : ::.:. :::M:.::::::MMM-M:.M.M.M M: :M:::::M.
mm-M M M M M Mm w. . .MMMMMM-...MMMMMMM.MMM-M mMMMMMM.MM-
MMMMM - M M. : M..M M.mm.M. . . . . .M M. . .M- M--M M MM.MM. .mmm.:..MM'm.MMmm:M::MMMa:--M MMMMMM.M
-M M M. . . .-;MMM M :M:mm mm.MMMMMMMM.M M,M. . .::::: .:.: ::::::,: .: :' . MMMMMM:MMM:.mmm. mmMMMMmmm
M ,MMM . .M M M M M::MM . M.::M M ::M:--:::::.:::::M. Mm mim:j-.:M. m:'.'M*':::]:::. .:MM.,:: : :- 'mmm:.:'M.:"-M M -:mm:.:m ' '--- :: mmmm:MMM, :M .''M M.MM-MM:M:-M mm. .:.-M..:.,. M:.MM. M: .M..Mmm mm :MMMMM
M,mm M -M M-MMMMMMMMMMmm.mmmmm.mmMM.M M M.M .M.MMMMMMM..MM.MMMMMM .M .
MM.MM.M:M.MMMMM.M MMMMMM. MM . M MMMMMMM.M . . M M::MMM.: : . M : : : M : M : - M M :M:. : mm:::::. M ::.:M- w-:M:M:M:M: :.Mm ::.Mm: M:m:M M ::: MM::M:m :M:MM
.----. .MmmmmMmmmM. . . .MmmmMM MM--..M--mi:; mm,.Mm ,- ,- M-m :-,MM.:MMMMMM.MMMM.MmmMMM
MM.mm M M'. ::]i:.,M:m.,..M..M.m;MMM.M.-M.-:::,..]M.-:::m M-,M ..M:'M--.MMMMMMM ::MM M. . . . .m-mMM:.MM.'m mm-:: :]:]im.--M-' M'm .'M. .:m mm.mm.m,M,,M
MMmm M .mm mmmM:. .M..MMM.M-M.: : :::.M:-:-:::: .:Mmm.,M.m mm ::::mm . . .:.:::M:::: : -MMMMMMM.
.. M M MMMM M M mm.mmm M .mm mm.MMMMMMM. . M .M .M MMMMMMMMMM.MMM:':.: ::-M - - "M-mm:Xmmm M M::::::: :.:::- .:Mmmm:::,. M'M . .::M,:m : - M : M : : : M : :::MMM. mmMM. . .M.MMMMMM .M
-MM M M MMMmm.m.Mmmmmm mmm .M M.MM" :'M.:. -.M:M: :.:M:mMM.: .MMMMMM:::MMMMMMMMM.MMM
:: M : :: %- -.-M- . .I . . M .M M MM M M M .M.. M.-.....:..  , . .M.Mmm:mmm:.:M:::MMMMMM'Mmmm mm.m .M.MM..MMMMM ..MM:
.M M.. M . M MMM . .IMMMMMM M .. MMMM. ... mm,mmmm M .M. MMMM.MmmMMMmmmm.m:. -:: - - - M M - - , -:Mmm'mm'mmm'mm'm':::::MM.. . mmm.mmm.:Mmm.-:r mm.:M,mm. mm 'M 'M M. M:. : .M-M -'. .?m ..MMM..wM MMm :::,.:: .':M,:mmMMMMM...MMMMM. . .M MM.M.MMmm. mm
- M mmmm.m mmm MM M M.MM.MM. . .M . M .MMM:,::-.::.::.mm 'M--- mmMMMMMmm mm.mmMMM'Mmm
.M . MM M MM M M. . Mr :d M M:: .:].'MMMmmmm,, M,,:mm . . ..M: ::M M : : '. . .M M...MMM MMMM MMMMM . . mmmm . MM M M Mmm. .mm M -M M m M M M M M .. M M M mm.m. .M -MMM.. MM M MM .
:MMmm.mm mm. IM M -M M M. :::.: : : M:MM:'mm M M MMMM M M M M M M . M M . MMM, MMM. M Mmm '. .M:.-mm ,.:.,MM:MM. ..M..MM'.MMMMMMMMM.M.M.M.M M.::::::M- -M:M.:..::.
MM ..,:.:.:  M  ::M:::..'  ,:::   :  M::  :  M.:  ::  : M : .  :  M M - M.'MM:.: M,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MM:::::a M  .M :Mmm:                  mmm  '  '  M       Mmm      MMMM M..MMMMM....M..M.: M.:.    :  :  :  i;:::M'M.'-'m -Mm ']  - ]::]!:i:-  ::::i::'  ::i:'i
,M..::%MM.-..MM:MM. :' . . .M.
.M -mmm . . . .MM MMmmmmmM.M.MMMMMMM..MMMMMMM MM. . .mmmmmmMM:::,: :,:,:,.:: :MM M - M : : : : M . : M MM:..M....MmmM.MM. :M:MM.MMM. MMmm .mm M:mm.M MMM.M M MM
M- - M M. m-m : : : : : :::M:.,m M,M- .: .M : . M M M M M Mmm.mmmm mmMM M.M. M . .M. .:. mm mm -M ::M:M-::M mmMMMM .-mm mmmM:-M: ..M.: % .mm.:M:::::::.mmm.Mmm.m
M. M.M . M M . M . . M.M .: MMMM. :::MM. -mmmmm-M .M.M MMMMMMMM M: qqq:::
.M M M . M . . MM . M M.M.
-M-m:m M ..M . . %M M M M :.M . .MMMM. M M . . M,,:M. MM:mm . M M M :::.
MM M .M... :: ..' ': ;M.: mm.M. mmmmm MMMM M. M MM. . . .Mmmm mmm.M MMMIM.Mmmmmmm .M. .Mmmm mmX:.. . : :XMM-M M : .: MM MM::-M:mm . . M M:.::::: M::m mmm mm:.:.::M. .:: am. , :'-%:Mm-M . . .-MM. M M . MMM M MMmm . . .M M .. M.M. :: :M:M:M,: .::
MM-mmmMmmMM MM.MMMmmMM.M .MMM M M M.MMM::::: :::: ,--M. . .M.M
M. . .% MM.MMM: M M .MMMM M M:MM:M--. M Mmm.:Mm,.,:,Mm'mM -MM -m-m M MMMMMM: 'M. MM. . .M .M
MM. M . M: :::-M-M .'M'm .mm.Mmm . . .mmmmmm mmmmM. .MM.: MMM .MM
MMM MMM . M M,MMMM.M.M. M..M-MMMM
M- MM. .- -MM Mmmmm:m . MM-M.M M M,M: M :IM mmm MM-M -:-Mmm mm . .M . M.M. . .M . M M M . M M MM M MMMMM M M M
.mmMMMMMMMMM.m mmMmm . . .: Mmm: : :imM- M:: .' . M'.:M.,.,mM:-m-M .'. M .,:M. ::::m mm
MMmmmmm:im]:::i':M,.::::::i:.:::m:m:::.::M,:M.::::: MMM . : : : : , : M : M : . : : M M.  : : . M. . .M. . .M:m:--MMMMM M M .-M M - - MM M M .. . .-M M -M.. M-MMMMm M
M]..Mm..-.::.-.M.,....,.M,,Mm.m.im..,Mm.-.']:mm.:::-Mm:'M-M:::::Mmmm wr:: M .::M.. MM.mmm MMM .MMMM'' M' M 'mm '. ::Mm:m:. M:: mmm : ,M, mm M.M.M.Mmm.:m ..
MMmmm:  ::,M..  .mm:mm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :MM:  :  : : :  - . - M M . M : 
.MMMMMmmm...M.- M M M M M M M . M . M MM.mmMMMMM.
M: M M M .. MM: ' M.M.mm:m ..mXM. . . .M. M M MM .M . M M M M . M M M M M M . . MmmmMMM M M M. M MMMM
M.MM-. M., M mmmmm M M . ..MMM M ..%M.M.MMMMMMMM M MM M M MMM . . MM M. MMmmmmm ,M M': M :M:Mr. : ..M.Mmm:l
M. .- -:- : X :M.::.. M.M.Mmmmmm . -MM. .M. .: . mm-.MM :M, M M'%M'mm.m.m.'..M.m . . . . .M
M mmm.mmmmm.m. .M:: m.. M I .M
MM . MMM M ...--- - 5M--M-M.--
MMM M M M M M M .mm ::: : M.: .:.' XMMII M'!ii
M:-.-- -M M M -M M Mli''mm'M M M M-
M.MMMM MM-M .-M M--- .. - M--m- --- - M-M M --M.-- M'M":':'i:.':'n:M',mm-M
mm: ..-. -  - .   1 :   . . .-... - --... -mm-::-M--.M-.'-.' M, M.-M.M-M-' -.Mm .
M: --Mm,.M.m -.-.M-.. -i .'-M --M'] . . . . . .-I.M..']--.
------- M-MM . . M M . MM. M . MMM. .M.M. - --MMM. M M . .. . .M.MMmm -M..
-
.






MINISTRY OF FINANCE
ROMANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Background
Until December 1989, the Romanian economic system was based on the central plan;
the enterprises were state-owned, the flow of funds was controlled administratively, leaving
little role for central banking or commercial banking functions, as these are understood in
market economies. Risks were absorbed by the Government, banks consequently maintained
little or no capital; the National Bank of Romania was charged with note issue, but had little
responsibility for money, credit or interest rate policy.
During the pre-reform period, prices were administratively restrained and enterprises
were required to transfer most of their net earnings back to the State. Government surpluses
accumulated, particularly as fiscal policy was tightened in conjunction with repayment of
Romania's foreign debt. These surpluses were periodically used to cover losses incurred in
the economy.
Unemployment was virtually zero. Enterprises maintained labor force in excess,
while the rigid wage system was providing very few incentives for the employees.
II.   Government Objectives and Policies Set Forth in the Economic Reform Program
(ERP)
After 1990, with a view to creating an environment in which market forces play a
pre-eminent role and to laying the basis for a sustainable growth, the Government elaborated
an Economic Reform Program. The main objectives of the program were to stabilize the
economy and to promote the conditions to replace the centrally planned system with a market
based one.
Having in view the critical situation of the economy at the end of 1989, immediate
priority was given to macroeconomic stabilization. Measures that had to be taken included:
(i) tightening of monetary policy; (ii) price liberalization for most of the items previously
controlled and phasing-out of subsidies; (iii) abolition of export quotas; and (iv) strengthening
of the tax-based income policy. In addition to these measures, the Economic Reform
Program also aimed at introducing structural and systemic changes such as: (i) enterprise
privatization and restructuring; (ii) financial sector reform; and (iii) design and
implementation of an adequate social safety net.
In support of the program, there was considerable international mobilization. Thus,



- 2 -
in 1991, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) extended a stand-by arrangement for SDR
380.5 million and a Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) for SDR
247.7 million. In 1992, the IMF granted to Romania a second SBA for SDR 314 million
and a CCFF for SDR 76.8 million.
The World Bank extended a Structural Adjustment Loan for USD 400 million in
1992.
The Group of 24 industrial countries (G-24) complemented the IMF and the IBRD
financing by approximately USD 800 million, during 1991-1993 period.
III.  SAL Structure and Development of SAL Conditionalities
The SAL was negotiated in May 1992 and signed in June 1992. The SAL structure
followed the main targets of the Reform Program and had as main objective structural
reforms with a view to laying down the basis for a market economy and creation of a social
safety net.
A medium-term policy framework was agreed with the Bank with specific policies
stipulated in the Letter of Development Policy.
In a first stage, the Reform Program supported by the IBRD-SAL, was aimed at
designing the legal and institutional environment with a view to developing free market
mechanisms and therefore increasing demand, restructuring economic activities, correcting
imbalances between different sectors and at macroeconomic level, inducing incipient
stabilization.
In 1992, the economic policies implemented by the Government were directed
towards:
(i)   elimination of direct administrative control, ensuring a competitive
environment and reducing the role of the Government in the economy;
(ii)   elaboration of the needed legal framework to promote free initiative,
preparation of the first phase of the privatization process, promotion of foreign
investment;
(iii)  liberalization of foreign trade along with the necessary changes int he foreign
currency regime;
(iv)  further prices liberalization;
(v)   reform of financial and banking system;



- 3 -
(vi)  establishment of labor market and a social protection.
The fulfillment of these conditionalities determined the IBRD Board to approve the
release of the first tranche of SAL.
The efforts of the Romanian authorities were negatively influenced by a number of
unexpected phenomena, and decline in output was larger than anticipated. The decline
reflected a number of interrelated factors, including delays in external financing, collapse of
trade with the USSR and the other ex-CMEA countries, problems associated with the Gulf
crisis, shortages of imported raw materials and energy, trade embargoes imposed by the UN
on Iraq and former Yugoslavia, as well as economic disorganization, lack of weakness of
financial discipline in enterprises, rising unemployment, high inflation rates, etc.
Therefore, at the end of 1992, immediately upon assuming office, the present
Government undertook to eliminate the existing domestic and external imbalances and to
complete the stabilization phase of the reform process, including restoring of fiscal balance.
In this respect, the deficit reductions had to come from cuts in fiscal expenditure as well as
in off-budget transfers to enterprises. However, the most crucial requirement for achieving
this target remained the reform of the enterprise sector.
In order to stabilize the economy and promote sound growth, by combining tight
financial policies with a deepening of structural reforms, particularly with a view of reducing
the rate of inflation, the Government succeeded in putting in practice the following actions:
(i)    Before implementation of the adjustment program, a large part of the
consumption basket of household goods was subsidized. These subsidies constituted a
serious fiscal burden. As part of the program, in early 1993, the Government
eliminated all consumer subsidies. This resulted in significant increases in prices of
consumer goods subsidized at that time. For this reason, special social protection
measures had to be taken.
(ii)  In 1993, the Government completely freed most prices in the economy,
entirely eliminated the 30% limit on commercial margins and the 90-day advance
price increase registration requirement was reduced to 30 days. Afterwards, prices
have been adjusted frequently so that they reflect changes in the external prices level
and devaluation of the Leu.
Energy prices were adjusted and brought in line with international prices. Since then,
they have been adjusted periodically according to relevant agreed formulae that take into
account modifications in world prices and the exchange rate.
(iii) The list of banned export goods was drastically reduced and now includes only
a few strategic products, such as hydrocarbon products as well as blood and blood
products, raw wood products and various types of wastes.



Also, the list of goods subject to quotas was shortened significantly and the export of
commodities, for which budgetary subsidies are granted, is now liberalized, provided that the
exporter reimburses the amount of the subsidy.
(iv)   More important were the structural measures undertaken to arrest the increase
of the arrears of the state-owned enterprises. Enforcement of financial discipline was
done through different rules and regulations which were mainly aimed at establishing
the following:
*     creditors (enterprise, commercial banks) were enabled to take action
against their debtors by declaring them insolvent, suing them in court
and eventually seizing the debtors' assets and inventories in order to
recover overdue payments. Provisions were enforced for penalties that
debtors had to pay after the date of maturity.
*     a restructuring program followed up an isolation exercise. A special
regime of surveillance was instituted for 30 troubled state-owned
enterprises accounting for large arrears, losses and bad loans.
Apart from improving and applying the legal framework to strengthen financial
discipline, the Government took significant measures of entirely or partially closing down
non-performing enterprises or capacities, resulting in important labor shedding. Management
changes and penalties due to inefficiency were also frequent.
With a view to improving the legal framework meant to impose financial discipline, a
monitoring system was implemented for enterprises generating large volumes of arrears.
(v)   The Government created and staffed a Public Investment Unit which in 1993
elaborated the Public Investment Program (PIP) that established a more appropriate
balance between public and private sector responsibilities and defined public priorities
in the light of a very tight fiscal policy.
The PIP was designed to focus on key infrastructure needs, particularly in energy,
transportation, public utilities and telecommunications. Because investment resources were
scarce, the Government had to ensure that the PIP focused on rehabilitation and new
investment projects with the highest returns, which would institutionalize sound public
investment programming.
(vi)   The Government took decisions restricting the range of activities appropriate to
Regies Autonomes-RAs (hundred percent state-owned enterprises) to the areas of
"natural monopolies of public interest or essential for natural defense and security"
and also took decisive steps to commercialize many of the auxiliary activities of the
existing RAs.



-5-
(vii)  After the specific privatization institutions (State Ownership Fund (SOF) and
Private Ownership Funds (POFs) became operational, the strategic actions that had to
be taken were identified. These actions were oriented towards:
*     privatizing with priority small commercial companies;
*     privatizing medium size commercial companies through different
methods and combinations of methods;
*     restructuring commercial companies in order to privatize them;
*     decentralization of privatization.
The Privatization Law promulgated in mid-1991, although containing some
inconsistencies, provided the general legal framework for mass privatization and, in the
interim, two kinds of early privatization methods were used. Firstly, during 1992-1993, over
3,000 state-owned retail shops, service businesses, restaurants and workshops were
privatized, most of them through an asset sales program. Secondly, this Law provided for
30 medium size enterprises to be sold under a pilot privatization program, of which, by end
1994, 21 have been privatized.
Presently, a number of 891 enterprises have been privatized and the Govemment
submitted to the Parliament a draft law on accelerating privatization which is currently under
debate in the Chamber of Deputies, after being approved by the Senate.
(viii) The preferential tax credit on wages for employees with children was abolished
(by that time there was a 20 percent wage tax credit for any worker who had
children). Also, the child allowance was made universal and equal for all children.
This system was implemented in 1993 and since then payments have been made
through schools and in special cases through the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection.
(ix)  In the first stage of the transition to a market economy, the Govemment had
many difficulties in maintaining a stable macro-economic framework. After the last
quarter of 1993, the prospects improved significantly and the Government finalized
negotiations with the IMF on a comprehensive program for 1994-1995, to be
supported by a stand-by arrangement complemented by a systemic transformation
facility.
The macroeconomic stabilization program was expected to intensify the process of
industrial restructuring and to contribute to further reductions in employment in selected
industries.
Although long-term benefits have resulted from the implementation of structural



reforms in most areas monitored under the SAL agreement and Romanian has advanced
significantly towards a market economy, some unavoidable shortcomings such as rising
unemployment, inflation and depreciation of the living standards for large groups of
population, emerged.
To alleviate the impact of these negative effects, the Government initiated actions to
strengthen social assistance programs.
These were based on measures aimed at improving the consistency between the legal,
administrative and functional framework and the available financial resources.
IV.  Difficulties Faced by Romania in Disbursing the Loan
Difficulties related to obtaining the necessary import documentation eligible according
to the Bank's procurement procedures were encountered during the period of this loan. They
were mainly caused by:
*     decentralization and liberalization of the foreign trade which determined
restructuring of specialized foreign trade enterprises and emerging of new
enterprises (both state and private). This led to the appearance of a multitude
of small-size importers with reduced turnover and financial resources, unable
to perform large scale import contracts:
*     there were few incentives for state-owned enterprises to supply the necessary
documents and none private ones;
*     before normalization of the foreign exchange market, enterprises lacked
convertible currencies, which led to the pervasive use of barter transactions.
After some delays, the tempo of disbursements picked up substantially, and the loan
was fully disbursed on January 9, 1995.
V.   Development of Mutual Relations Between Romania and the World Bank
After 1991, the relations between Romania and the World Bank developed and new
loans were granted.
These project loans financed the development of:
*     health system
*     energy sector (oil and gas, electricity)
*     education sector
*     private agriculture sector
*     infrastructure (roads, railways)



These loans represent a total of USD 1175.6 million out of which USD 665.7 million
were disbursed during 1992-1994 period.
VI.   Conclusions
During the period of loan implementation, the Romanian Government attained most o
the main goals set in the program:
*     reducing inflation and bringing it under control;
*     restoring macro-economic equilibrium;
*     attaining a number of structural objectives;
*     achieving significant results in resumption of economic growth.
Thus, in 1993, GDP registered a 1 % increase, and Romania's output growth turned
positive for the first time since 1989. The 1994 economic results confirmed that, for a
second consecutive year, the peak of the structural crisis was left behind and Romania has
entered into a phase of macroeconomic stability and output recovery. Therefore, the 1994
GDP, estimated to lei 47,500 billion, was, in real terms, 3.4% higher than in 1993 due to
the increase of output in industry (3.3%), construction (18.8%) and agriculture (0.2%).
On December 31, 1994, the exchange rate was lei 1767/$, the yearly depreciation, in
nominal terns, of 38.5% (appreciation in real terms by 14.4 percent) being much lower than
in the previous year (196.7 percent).
The social costs of transition registered a slight relaxation especially in the second
half of 1994, associated with a considerable reduction of inflation from 295.5 percent in
1993 to 61.7 percent in 1994, on a year-to-year basis.
Fiscal performances in the last years were brought about by measures implemented to
restrict expenditure and offset the rapid erosion of the tax base in 1992 and early 1993. The
consolidated general government balance improved from a deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP in
1992 to a deficit of 0.1 percent in 1993.
To secure its objective of stabilizing the economy, the Government pursued the course
of fiscal austerity in 1994 and developed measures limiting the deficit of the consolidated
general government to 2.5 percent of GDP.
In 1994, net international reserves of the banking system raised sharply, reaching
USD 1.6 billion by end-December.
As it has been stated before, the SAL was fully disbursed on January 9, 1995. This
represents a positive benchmark in Romania's relationship with the World Bank.
In 1995, Romania faces the challenges of carrying forward the macroeconomic policy



- 8 -
reforms initiated in 1993 and of implementing the structural measures planned or started in
1994. While the Government is fully committed to implement these measures in the content
of the inevitable pressures arising during the year, continuing financial support from the
international financial community may prove to be essential.
Bucharest
March 10, 1995









IBRD 25020R
ROMANIA
0                                            T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
_____________                                                  >                                  ev                            m'         -j                  *- 8 L ,  G  A  RZ  I  A.                 w     cw.
_______________________________________                                                                                                                                    PUUJA*Y 19Y4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  'C.im









Report No:           14 7 2-;
Type: ICR



