Document of
The World Bank   PILE CO  Y 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3361-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $6.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
VOLTA NOIRE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 8, 1982
Western Africa Region
This document ha a restScted distHbudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
.thfeir official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1        =   US$1.12    =   CFAF 336
US$1.00      =   SDR 0.89   =   CFAF 300
CFAF 1,000   =   US$3.33    =   SDR 2.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV       Volta Valleys Development Authority
CCCE      Central Agency for Economic Cooperation (France)
CNCA      National Agricultural Ciedit Bank
FAC       Fund for Aid and Cooperation (France)
IRAT      Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute
lFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER   National Cereals Agency
ORD       Regional Development Organization
PY        Project Year
SOFITEX   Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (Parastatal)
FISCAL YEARS
Government:          January 1 - December 31
ORD:                 April 1 - March 31
IDA:                 July 1 - June 30
Project Year 1:      July 1, 1982 - March 31, 1983
Project Year 2-5:    April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
VOLTA NOIRE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:        SDR 6.1 million (US$6.8 million)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The main objectives of this project, which follows the first
West Volta Agricultural Development E'roject (Cr. iW-Ys),
but is confined to the Volta Noire area, are to raise domestic
food production, increase cotton exports and improve the
quality of rural life. Specifically it aims to: (a) encourage
improved manual cultural techniques amongst traditional farmers;
(b) promote the integration of livestock and agriculture, and
the use of organic fertilizer and animal traction; (c) promote
and monitor measures which may lead to cheaper alternative
chemical fertilizers; (d) encourage the use of inputs including
selected seeds to allow further production increases by more
advanced farmers; and (e) foster further development of village
groups, and test a small literacy program for some of these
groups.
Benefits:      Agricultural extension and complementary services would
directly benefit about 46,000 very poor farm families in the
area resulting in crop production increases, higher farm
incomes, better nutrition and more on-farm employment. The
livestock vaccination component would benefit all livestock
owners in the area by reducing animal disease incidence; the
village group support program would bring greater self-reliance
to the farmers in the area; while the technical assistance
component would help improve local capability to operate and
manage development projects. The anti-erosion component and
use of organic fertilizers would counter the trend of declining
soil fertility.
Risks:         There are no unusual technical risks associated with the proj-
ect, although the northern part of the project area presents a
generally higher risk due to lower rainfall and poorer soils.
The proposed approach has already been tested within the area
and elsewhere in Upper Volta. Potential risks are: inadequate
use of inputs or a breakdown in the delivery system due to
difficulties in financing fertilizer subsidies; possible
constraints in the marketing system in providing an outlet for
the increased cereals surplus; slow farmer responsiveness
especially in the north; short-comings of measures to counter
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



- ii -
the decline in soil fertility and delays in funding of operat-
ing expenses by Government. Recognizing these risks, particu-
lar attention is being given to strengthening the role of
village groups in marketing, adaptive research, monitoring
generally, and to pursuing discussions with Government con-
cerning a proposed Fertilizer Credit under which subsidies
would progressively be reduced.
Estimated Costs (net of taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted):
Local     Foreign    Total
--------US$ Million-------
1.   Agriculture and Livestock             2.8         0.7       3.5
2.   Village Groups                        0.5         0.4        0.9
3.   Supplies and Credit                   4.2         3.3        7.5
4.   Management, Monitoring and            0.3         2.0        2.3
Training of Senior Staff
5.   Studies and Subprojects to be         0.3         0.7        1.0
Approved
Total Base Costs                   8.1         7.1       15.2
Physical contingencies             1.0         0.8        1.8
Price contingencies                3.0         2.1        5.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          12.1        10.0      22.1
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US$ Million------
External:
IDA                             3.9        2.9        6.8
France                          1.1        2.0        3.1
IFAD                            5.9        2.0        7.9
Upper Volta:
Commercial Banks                0.4        3.1        3.5
Beneficiaries                   0.8          -        0.8
TOTAL                     12.1       10.0      22.1



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
-- -        US$ 4illion--------------
Annual               0.3    1.3    1.7    1.7    1.3    0.5
Cumulative           0.3    1.6    3.3    5.0    6.3    6.8
Rate of Return:      21 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 3812-UV
Map:                 No. IBRD-15914



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A
VOLTA NOIRE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount of SDR 6.1
million (US$6.8 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Volta Noire
Agricultural Development Project. The French Government will contribute
US$3.1 million equivalent (comprising loans from the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and a grant from the Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC)). The loans available in a three-year tranche, followed by a
two-year tranche, are expected to be on terms of 2 percent interest per annum
with repayment over 20 years, following a 10-year grace period at 1.5 percent
interest per annum. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) will contribute a loan of US$7.9 million equivalent on standard terms
of 1 percent interest per annum with repayment over 40 years, following a
10-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
An updating economic memorandum is presently under preparation, based upon
a mission in February, 1982. Information obtained during that mission is
incorporated in the section below.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        Upper Volta is one of the poorest countries in the world with a
GNP per capita of US$210 in 1980. 2/ Over 80 percent of the population depend
on agriculture or livestock for their livelihood. Soil quality and rainfall
vary considerably across the country, in particular between the dry central
plateau and the wetter zone of the southwest. Over half of the population of
6.1 million (1980) is concentrated in this central region, which has resulted
in overcultivation of the already fragile soils and progressive erosion. The
sharp annual fluctuation in rainfall, few mineral resources, scarcity of roads
and other infrastructure, and long distances from the nearest seaports further
constrain the country's development.
1/   Parts I, II and III have been substantially revised since the President's
Report for the Third Telecommunications Project (Cr. 1235-UV, US$17.0
million, April 1982) and are identical to those in the Hauts-Bassins
report.
2/   National income and population data quoted here are based on recent
analyses and differ from figures in Annex I.



4.        The impoverishment of the central region has given rise to net
emigration to the coastal countries, mainly the Ivory Coast, of about 0.6
percent of the population each year, and spontaneous resettlement to the less
densely populated southwest. While internal resettlement and emigration
represent important avenues for many individuals to improve their incomes,
Upper Volta will face for some time a difficult challenge to raise the pro-
ductivity of food cultivation on the central plateau, which will continue
to provide the livelihood for a very large share of the population. The
opportunities for economic growth over the long term will not improve,
however, unless special efforts are made to accelerate the development of
human capital, in particular by raising the primary school enrollment rate and
life expectancy which are among the lowest in the world, at 20 percent and 43
years, respectively.
Past Economic Performance
5.        Upper Volta's economic performance has in general reflected a
relatively prudent economic management. The Government-s favorable record in
this respect, however, reflects more its inclination against active interven-
tion in the economy than a strong capability of policy analysis and execution.
Indeed, a problem is that the Government has piovided only a limited degree of
coordination and oversight of investment planning and budgeting, a weakness
which extends to essential sectoral activities such as agricultural research.
This weak administrative capability has been put under a special strain by the
large inflow of foreign assistance and the proliferation of donor agencies
which have become a feature of the Voltaic scene since the major drought of
the mid-1970s. The present Government, which came to power in 1980, demon-
strates an increasing inclination to proceed with some major investments which
have weak economic justification and will place an undue burden on domestic r
financial resources (especially for operating costs). It is also evident that
the Government has made only limited progress in implementing reforms to
strengthen financial management.
6.        National Output.  Recently revised estimates of GDP show an annual
increase of 3.7 percent over the 1970-79 period, or about 1.8 percent per
capita. Real output of the primary sector, which contributes almost 40 per-
cent of total value-added, increased by about 1.5 percent annually, a perfor-
mance which compares favorably to that of other semi-arid Sub-Saharan Africa
countries and reflects the effect of development projects and reasonably good
sectoral policies. The livestock subsector showed no overall growth in
value-added from 1970-79. Industrial production, which accounts for about 13
percent of GDP, expanded by 4.1 percent per year over the same period. The
main sources of growth in the economy were public administration and other
services, which increased 6.0 percent annually. The greatest expansion in
these activities reflected the substantial increase in externally-financed
development projects following the drought.
7.        National income fell by 5 percent in 1980 as a result of poor rains,
which caused a decline in crop production of 15 percent, and the general slow-
down in economic activity preceding the military coup. The economy rebounded
in 1981, expanding about 9 percent above the previous year's low.
8.        Total gross investment averaged about 17 percent of GDP over the
past decade. The high incremental capital:output ratio (ICOR), which



- 3 -
amounted to 6.4 percent for 1976-81, reflects the dearth of productive re-
sources besides capital in the country and the lack of coordination of public
investment which is almost entirely externally-financed. The resource gap has
risen from 14 percent of GDP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1981, and domestic
savings have remained strongly negative throughout the decade. Most of this
excess consumption has arisen from the government sector. Because of workers'
remittances, which largely supported private consumption, gross national
savings have been only slightly negative or zero.
9.        Overall, the economy's performance during the past decade was better
than average for the lowest income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. However,
the dominant features of the Voltaic economy--the deterioration of soils on
the central plateau, the predominantly illiterate work force, vulnerability to
climatic variation and dependence on foreign capital--make it evident that the
country still has a very weak basis for sustained economic growth.
10.       Balance of Payments.  The balance on the external account has shown
a deficit for most years since 1976, in contrast to the pattern of surplus in
the early decade. The overall shortfall was estimated at CFAF 2.3 billion
(US$8.2 million) in 1981. Wide swings have been apparent in the export of
cotton and sheanuts, the main export crops, partly as a result of variations
in rainfall. Cereals, capital goods, and especially petroleum are the fastest
growing imports - to a great extent, however, these are counterbalanced by
grants (e.g. food aid) and loans for development projects. Although Upper
Volta clearly has a structural imbalance with respect to foreign trade, it is
likely that the availability of aid and remittances has enabled the demand
for imports to grow disproportionately. The balance of payments situation
therefore does not mark a need for policies to tightly restrict domestic
demand, but constraints on petroleum imports and measures to ensure buoyant
export sectors (especially cotton and livestock) will be important to achieve
greater stability of the external account.
11.       Public Finance.  Although the Government pursued generally conserva-
tive fiscal policies prior to 1975, this pattern changed with the expansion
of foreign aid at mid-decade. Budget deficits averaging CFAF 3.0 billion
(US$12.6 million) have appeared each year from 1976-80. A much larger gap of
CFAF 8.8 billion (US$31.4 million), or 2.8 percent of GDP, is estimated in
1981, with another shortfall expected in 1982.
12.       The deficitary trend has occurred despite a fairly buoyant perfor-
mance in revenue mobilization. Civil service salary raises have been well
below the rate of inflation, and the Government has recently tightened certain
administrative expenditures.  Financial losses of the parastatal sector,
although they are beginning to reach an important scale for certain enter-
prises, have not been a factor to date in the overall budgetary situation.
Although there are specific areas where tax and expenditure reforms are
needed, for the most part the deficitary trend has arisen from the widespread
expansion of government activities in many sectors as a result of development
investments.
13.       As the first generation of development projects financed after the
drought come into their operational phase, the Government is going to be faced
increasingly with new recurrent expenditure obligations. Yet at present it



- 4 -
has no consolidated investment budget, nor are the recurrent expenditures of
investment projects taken into account in the preparation of the national
budget. The Government and the Bank have for the past two years been discus-
sing an institutional reform proposed by the Ministry of Plan to bring about
a more systematic accounting for investment expenditure, and a technical
assistance project to help implement the reform has been under preparation.
Progress on the reform has been slow, owing to failure to reach agreement on
the allocation of responsibilities between different ministries. The IMF also
has a Standby Program under discussion with the primary aim of strengthening
the public finance situation.
14.       Foreign Assistance and Investment.  Although three development plans
have been prepared, the latest covering the 1977/81 period, the process of
formulating the investment programs has involved little evaluation and selec-
tion of projects by Government based upon economic criteria and development
priorities. The 1982-86 plan is still in a very early stage of preparation.
Despite the absence of a distinct investment program, foreign aid to Upper
Volta has continued at a high level, with both commitments and disburse-
ments of official inflows exceeding total budget revenues for the past
several years. Most of this aid is on highly concessional terms. The prin-
cipal foreign donors are France, the European Development Fund, Canada, the
Netherlands, Germany, the United States, the Association, and the UNDP.
Although a large degree of informal consultation among the donors exists,
especially with respect to large infrastructural projects, increased coordi-
nation will become more important to improve the efficiency of investment
and ensure that the recurrent costs are sustainable, especially given the
Government's own limited capability in planning and analysis. The Bank is
discussing these issues with the Government.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
15.       The Bank Group-s commitments in Upper Volta, as of March 1, 1982,
amount to US$191 million and cover twenty-two IDA credits. IFC has one
investment. About US$87 million have been disbursed. The IDA projects
include eleven agriculture (including two supplementary credits), five
transportation (including one supplementary credit), two education, two
telecommunications, one small and medium scale enterprise, and one urban
development project. The IFC investment is for plastic production. Of total
IDA lending, the agriculture and transportation sectors account for 44 and
40 percent, respectively. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and IFC commitments as of March 1, 1982. It also includes inform-
ation on the status of ongoing projects.
16.       A few projects have experienced implementation delays necessitating
extensions of closing dates, and world price inflation in others has led to
cost overruns, requiring supplementary financing or eliminating lower priority
components (Third Highway Project, Cr. 653-WJ, US$20.0 million, 1976, and EEC
Special Action Credit 38, US$3.5 million, 1980; West Volta Agricultural
Development Project, Cr. 706-WV, US$3.6 million (IDA) and Can.$3.0 million
(Canada), 1977, and EEC Special Action Credit 49, US$3.0 million, 1980; Urban
Development Project, Cr. 766-WV, US$8.2 million, 1978).  Financial control



on some projects has been weak due in part to a lack of general financial
standards or procedures. Budgets are nominally prepared, approved or con-
trolled by a central authority, but the procedures are insufficiently rigorous.
There are few official standards or procedures for setting expenditure norms.
Furthermore, partly due to fiscal management problems the Government has had
difficulty in promptly meeting its counterpart funding obligations. Future
projects will address these issues by the provision of further project-related
technical assistance and training, as well as at the central level through a
proposed Technical Assistance Project to improve the financial management and
investment planning and budgeting process. On the whole, however, past
project performance has been generally satisfactory given the environmental,
institutional and managerial constraints within the country.
17.       Upper Volta's disbursement performance has been normal compared to
other countries in the region. Recently, however, its performance has begun
to deteriorate mainly due to lack of counterpart funds as a result of current
budgetary difficulties and delays in project effectiveness (Highways IV).
The Bank is helping to tackle these problems by ensuring that Government is
aware of forthcoming counterpart obligations and by offering increased assist-
ance from the Bank's Resident Representative during the period prior to
project effectiveness. The proposed Technical Assistance Project would also
help to address disbursement problems.
18.       The Bank Group-s lending is in line with Government's priorities
as expressed in its Third Development Plan (1977/81), and will continue to
support Government's efforts to: (a) increase productivity in agricul-
ture, from which most of the population derives its livelihood; (b) improve
the human resource base; (c) strengthen basic infrastructure facilities; and
(d) mobilize resources from co-donors. Government is currently working on
a Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1982/86) with UNDP assistance. Priori-
ties are, however, not expected to differ from those of the Third Plan.
19.       In the near-term (FY82-84), Bank Group operations are expected to
include a pilot agricultural development project for the Regional Development
Organization (ORD) of Koudougou; a second rail project to be executed with the
Ivory Coast; a hydro-electric power project; a technical assistance project
to strengthen Government-s investment planning and control procedures; and a
credit to assist Government to deal with the policy aspects of fertilizer
usage and food security, while phasing out subsidies on fertilizers. In the
medium-term, Bank assistance strategy toward Upper Volta envisages combin-
ing our present commitment to the promotion of food and export crop produc-
tion with a new emphasis on agricultural research, development of human
resources through basic education and health, and the strengthening of aid
coordination.
20.       Upper Volta's external public debt at the end of 1980 amounted to
US$508 million (including US$185 million undisbursed) of which IDA credits
accounted for about 25 percent. The ratio of debt service to exports of
goods and nonfactor services was 9.2 percent in 1980, and the ratio is not
expected to increase significantly over the next several years.



-6-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Sector Background
21.       Economic growth in Upper Volta is necessarily closely linked to
progress in the agricultural sector, which employs 80-90 percent of the
population and comprises almost 40 percent GDP and almost all exports.
However, soils are poor, rainfall is low and uncertain, and the potential for
irrigation is economically limited, requiring costly investments to develop.
Improving agricultural productivity as is necessary for maintaining food
security and increasing national income is thus a challenging task.
22.       Although the country is relatively flat, there are pronounced
regional differences in climate and soils. The low and erratic rainfall
in the north (600 mm) results in unreliable harvests and greater reliance on
livestock for survival, and consequently low population densities. On the
central plateau, crop farming is at a subsistence level because of population
pressure, over-exploited soils and unreliable rainfall. In the southwest,
soil and rainfall conditions (reaching 1,200 mm) are more favorable, popula-
tion density lower, and production more market-oriented.
23.       Agricultural production over 1961-79 has performed as well as could
have been expected given the severe constraints. Foodcrop areas, which
account for almost 90 percent of cultivated land, have increased less than
the net annual growth in rural population. In contrast to most other food-
crops, sorghum production has grown more rapidly than population, reflecting
in part the residual effects of cotton fertilizer in crop rotation, as well as
direct fertilization. Overall, the country has continued to satisfy all but a
small share (5 percent) of its consumption of foodcrops from local production
in years of normal rainfall. But this has only been achieved through increas-
ing dependence on the southwest as a source of food surplus, which tends to
limit the resources available in that region for growing the country-s major
export crop, cotton. This dependence must continue, however, in the short
term, whilst adaptive research attempts to develop improved approaches for
increasing productivity over wide areas of the center.
24.       Cotton yields have risen markedly in the last decade and output rose
from 36,000 tons in 1970 to over 78,000 tons by 1979 due to cultivation
shifting to more fertile areas and to the use of fertilizers and insecticides,
coupled with extension programs. Since 1979, cotton acreage has fallen,
indicating that close attention needs to be paid to the relationship of cotton
and cereals prices, including reviewing whether current taxes on cotton, which
are not high, should nevertheless be reduced. The Association's continuing
policy dialogue with Government includes attention to this.
25.       Because of the population pressure, there is considerable migration
away from the central plateau, partly abroad, but mainly close to roads in
other parts of the country, particularly the area immediately south of the
central plateau, and the southwest. Government has sought to address migra-
tion in an organized fashion through the Volta Valleys Authority (AVV),
which has resettled families, previously at high cost, in areas freed from



- 7 -
onchocerciasis. Government has recently adopted new policies, broadly in line
with recommendations of the Association, aimed at reducing costs of AVV opera-
tions. Under the proposed Hauts-Bassins project, funds are included for
studies in AVV areas. Outside these areas, a low cost approach to migration
was to have been tested under the West Volta Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 706-UV), but terms of reference for preliminary studies were not agreed
between Government and Switzerland, the financing source involved, in time to
permit execution; it is now intended that this component will be undertaken
under the proposed project and that of the Hauts-Bassins.
Principal Sectoral Institutions
26.       The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) is responsible for agricul-
ture and livestock and related national support services, including adaptive
research and seed production. It oversees parastatal marketing organizations
and eleven decentralized Regional Development Organizations (ORDs). Except in
the case of those ORDs in areas with externally-financed projects, the ORDs
lack adequate budgetary allocations; however, the heavy cost of maintaining an
ORD is most easily justified in areas where economical technological packages
exist readily usable by farmers on a wide scale - that is, presently only in
the southwest.
27.       Agricultural credit is largely the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) established in 1980, which, in line with
recommendations of the Association, has concentrated upon setting policy norms
for agricultural credit, training, and control of funds, and has successfully
completed its initial program in these areas. Day-to-day credit operations
continue to be the responsibility of the ORDs. Commercial banks provide
short-term credit for the purchase of annual inputs and for the marketing of
cotton.
28.       Marketing:  Cereals are marketed mainly by private traders who
purchase grains in producing areas and sell them in the main consumption
points. The system works fairly efficiently, with most farmers being able
to sell any excess production without difficulty. Government sets official
consumer and producer prices, but does not enforce them as such; rather it
attempts to influence market prices through the National Cereals Agency
(OFNACER), which was able last season, to offer to purchase cereals at the
official price throughout the country, and although it did not meet its
purchase quotas, it may have induced traders to offer higher prices than they
would have otherwise. The Association has advised Government that it considers
that the role of private traders should be maintained, as at present, and that
OFNACER-s role should be limited to marketing emergency stocks, selling food
aid supplies to drought-stricken areas, and improving market information.
Cotton marketing, ginning and export is competently undertaken by the Voltaic
Textile Fibre Company (SOFITEX), owned by Government (63 percent), and by the
French Textile Fibre Development Company (CFDT) (37 percent) which provide
technical support and receive a commission of 1.5 percent on all exports.
SOFITEX also imports fertilizers and insecticides for sale at subsidized
prices, not only for cotton (fertilizers and insecticides) but for cereals
(fertilizers) as well. The system which has worked successfully is under
strain however, especially for areas not producing cotton, because of delays
by Government in reimbursing SOFITEX for the subsidy element for fertilizers
used on cereals.



- 8 -
29.       An active program of agricultural research is undertaken by externally-
supported specialist institutions for cotton, irrigated crops, sorghum and mil-
let, and other foodcrops. However, the work has suffered from a lack of focus
upon the need to produce recommendations valid at farmer level, which has
arisen in part because of concentration by the institutions upon specific
crops, and a resultant lack of attention to farming systems research. The
recently created Voltaic Institute for Agronomic and Zootechnical Research
intends to address these problems; the Association is discussing with Govern-
ment possible support to the Institute. Seed production, a Ministry function,
has also encountered problems of pricing policy, inadequate extension atten-
tion and liaison with research, and lack of attention to farmers preferences.
Under forthcoming Association-financed projects, particular attention is to be
paid to seed production and the factors affecting uptake.
Sector Strategy and Bank Group Lending
30.       The Government s strategy in agriculture has given priority to
(a) improving the productivity of rainfed agriculture; (b) promoting migra-
tion from the densely populated and relatively infertile central plateau
to the more fertile and less densely populated areas in the southwest;
(c) expanding irrigation and swampland production schemes; and (d) ensuring
national food security. In line with this strategy, Bank Group lending for
Upper Volta has emphasized development of rainfed agriculture for food and
cash crops in the southwest, small-scale land development schemes to expand
the agricultural production base in the central plateau, and testing a larger
scale swampland production scheme in the southwest.
31.       Since 1970, IDA has financed eleven projects in the rural sector
of which five have been completed. The Cotton Project (Cr. 225-UV, US$6.2
million, 1970) demonstrated that an improved technology, within the means
of small farmers, could be spread widely and rapidly. The project's Audit
Report noted substantial improvements in farming practices and yields. The
First Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 496-UV, US$8.0 mil-
lion, 1974) after a slow start also achieved satisfactory results in expand-
ing cotton and cereal production. The project closed in December 1981 and
a project completion report is being prepared. The Drought Relief Project
(Cr. 442-WV, US$2.0 million, 1973) and the First and Second Rural Development
Fund (RDF) Projects (Cr. 317-WV, US$2.2 million, 1972 and Cr. 640-LW, US$9.4
million, 1976) aimed at financing small discrete works with community partici-
pation. The Project Audits described the Drought Relief and First RDF Proj-
ects as highly innovative and successful in implementing diversified and
scattered subprojects. The second RDF Project, completed in December 1981,
continued the development of bottomlands, wells and anti-erosion works on the
central plateau. A third RDF Project was approved by the Board on March 30,
1982.
32.       The ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects are:  the West
Volta Agricultural Development Project discussed at para. 36 (Credit 706-LW,
US$3.6 million, 1977, Credit 706-5-LW for Can.$3.0 million and Special Action
Credit 49-UV for US$3.0 million equivalent); the Livestock Development Project
(Credit 557-LW, US$6.0 million, 1975); the Forestry Project (Credit 982-LW;
US$14.5 million, 1980); the Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project (Credit



1013-UV, US$6.5 million, 1980); and the Second Bougou -ibi Agriciilturc.l 7evel-
opment Project (Credit 1097-UV, US$16.0 million, 1981). They are being
implemented satisfactorily, although the swamp drainage Niena Dionkele
Pilot Project has run into technical problems of water availability and rice
varieties, and the Livestock Project had difficulties with its group ranch
component which necessitated a redesign and a reduction in the credit by
US$3.0 million.
Future Orientations
33.       The Association is currently discussing with Government an agricul-
tural issues study resulting from recent sector work. The study confirms the
broad orientations of agricultural policy discussed above but seeks to high-
light some of the priority areas that merit attention if the four general
goals are to be achieved. For rainfed agriculture, regional priorities need
defining, in order to focus on the major constraints and areas of potential;
in the west by continued promotion of food and export crop production and in
the center, by encouraging erosion control, better husbandry, and animal
traction, and undertaking research to improve drought-resistant varieties. It
will be appropriate, in the more difficult regions, for pilot projects to be
undertaken to test the suitability of promising approaches for wider adoption.
For migration, the proposed project and that of the Hauts-Bassins include
studies and implementation of pilot components aimed at testing low cost
approaches to dealing with installation of arriving migrants. For irrigation/
swampland development, a study by the FAO Cooperative Program is currently
underway to collect more data, in order to establish whether a potential for
economically attractive investments exists, and if so, the priorities. For
national food security, one of the key issues is how to assure a steady
increase in fertilizer use, which is forecast to need to rise by some
3,000 tons/year over the next five years in order to meet food production
requirements.  Government is finding it increasingly lifficult to finance the
subsidy, which in turn threatens adequacy of supplies..  ReccStizingr :7is an<.'.
in line with obligations under the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, Government reduced the subsidy in June 1982 from 64 to 57 percent.
It has also confirmed its strong interest to pursue discussions concerning a
proposed Fertilizer Credit having an objective of a progressive reduction of
the subsidy over five years to a level supportable without external finance.
The Project would need to carefully monitor and take into account effects of
price changes on output and consumer prices. The adjustment process which
needs to be flexible will involve difficult political and economic judgments
for the Government, as it seeks to maintain farm output in the face of rising
input costs, whilst restraining to acceptable levels, increases in the prices
paid by urban consumers who exercise a considerable degree of political
power.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project fits into the general sectoral strategy by
building upon the success of the ongoing project to raise further domestic
food production and cotton exports in the southwest. It will also seek to
increase farmer involvement in the input distribution and marketing system at



- 10 -
the village level. Particular attention has also been given to the -rieed, in
view of Government s difficult financial situation, for cost recovery measures
in order to reduce the demand for Government support at the end of the project
implementation period.
35.       The project was identified in 1979, following Government's request
for a follow-up proiect in the area, and appraised in October, 1981. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. from June 7 to 11, 1982; the Upper Volta
delegation was led by H.E. the Minister of Rural Development. A reDort
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Volta Noire Agricultural Development
Project" No. 3812-UV dated June 28, 1982 is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Supplementarv project data are contained in Annexs Il.
Bank Assistance in the Area
36.       The West Volta Agricultural Development Project, which covered the
Volta Noire and the Hauts-Bassins Regional Development Organizations (ORDs),
has been successful in extending the work of the earlier Cotton Project; t-he
Livestock Project, the Second Education Project, the Second Ruiral Development
Fund Project and a French-financed Foodcrops Project have also assisted
development of the area. The West Volta Project covered both cotton production
and foodcrops.  Cumulative incremental Droduction of cotton in the Volta Noire
area over the five years of the project is 30,000 tons cowpared to 24,000 tons
estimated at appraisal. Yields have risen from 700 kg/ha to 900 kg/ ha,
largely through increased application of fertilizers and insecticides.  Cereal
yields have increased by 12 percent and Volta Noire production has risenr in
1981 by 17,000 tons/year (compared to 18,000 tons/year at appraisal). A
recalculation of the rate of return gives a result of 22 perce it, compared
to the appraisal estimate of 32 percent, which included the more ferti.le
Hauts-Bassins area. Components not directly under the control of the t:o ORDs
have been less successful; for example, only about 10 percent of the targets
of the small irrigation component have been met. Organizationally, there is a
need to simplify objectives and responsibilities, and to give increased
attention to financial management, both as to control over expenditures, and
in continuing cost recovery of input distribution costs.
Description
37.       The project, to be executed over a five-year period starting in
September 1982, would cover the following components:
(i)  Agriculture and Livestock Development:  comprising (a) extension
services to about 46,000 farmers to increase further cotton andi
foodcrop production, and integrate livestock themes into thie
general extension message; (b) adaptive research. to test new
varietal and husbandry recommendations and develop cheauer fertil.zar
formulations; and (c) construction of contour bunds on 2,000 ha in
the north, in order to reduce soil erosiorn;
(ii) Village Group Development: increasing the number of village
groups from 290 to 500, in order to continue developing farmers'
responsibility for their own affairs;



- 11 -
(iii)  Supplies and Credit:  providing inputs and credit with village
level administration being undertaken by village groups; and
producing and promoting improved seeds for sorghum, maize and
groundnuts;
(iv)  Management, Senior Staff Training and Monitoring; and
(v)  Studies and Subprojects to be Approved:  undertaking further studies,
and establishing a mechanism for appraising and implementing small
subprojects in accordance with agreed criteria.
Detailed Features
38.       Extension services would be reorganized to allow a phased reduction
during the life of the project of the number of extension agents from 125
to 100, thereby reducing recurrent cost and redeploying staff, permitting
increased emphasis on seed production, applied research, monitoring and
demonstrations.  The extension message would selectively cover better
husbandry techniques, dse of fertilizers, animal traction, and improved seed
varieties depending on the level of a farmer's development. Particular
attention would be paid to production of manure, and the feeding and health of
draft oxen.
39.       Adaptive Research:  Two substations would be established to test
in conditions approximating those of farmers', new varietal and husbandry
approaches which research stations have developed, and alternative cheaper
fertilizer formulations, in close contact with the relevant research insti-
tutes.
40.       Anti-Erosion Works:  Experience with contour bunding for erosion
ccntrol and increasing soil fertility has been encouraging under the Second
Rural Development Fund Project. A program to construct bunds on a further
2,000 ha would be carried out under the proposed project. Farmers contribute
their labor for finishing off and subsequent maintenance.
41.       Village Groups:  A small service consisting of six agents, together
with extension staff would seek to foster a further 210 groups (and support
the 290 existing groups), promote functional literacy, using existing educa-
tional material prepared by the Literacy Directorate in Ouagadougou, and
provide support for a test program of village grain banks in the north.
42.       Supplies and Credit Services:  Under the proposed project, the ORD
Supplies and Credit Services which would become self-accounting, would, from
the outset, apply a minimum margin of 7 percent on supplies, and increase this
margin, or reduce distribution costs as necessary in order to assure complete
recovery of defined handling costs by the fourth year of the project. Assur-
ances to this effect were given during negotiations (Section 4.07 of Credit
Agreement). Medium-Term Credit would be provided for oxen and animal traction
equipment. Credit recoveries in the ORD have been satisfactory and around
90 percent in the last 5 years. CNCA national lending terms, which are
acceptable to the Association, would apply. Interest rates would be 11 per-
cent, the maximum permitted under the preferential schedule of the Central



- 12 -
Bank's regulations. This rate compares with a present inflation rate of
about 12 percent which is forecast to decline by 1986 to about 10 percent.
Assurances were given during negotiations that Government would enforce
credit terms and conditions, acceptable to the Association (Section 4.12 of
Credit Agreement). Seasonal credit, financed by a local banking consortium,
has also operated satisfactorily under the ongoing project and no changes
are proposed. A seed farm established under the Foodcrops Project would be
expanded, in order to produce improved sorghum, maize, and groundnuts seeds
from foundation stock obtained via the National Seeds Service (cotton seed is
produced and distributed by SOFITEX). Selected farmers or young farmer groups
would also further multiply seeds.
43.       Management, Senior Staff Training, and Monitoring:  The proposed
project would be executed by the Volta Noire ORD whose director would be the
Project Director. Reflecting the present shortage of qualified Voltaic staff,
external finance would allow for international recruitment for three key posts
(five years each) - Technical Coordinator, Financial Coordinator, and Monitor-
ing Coordinator at an average manyear cost of US$100,000. For Senior Staff
Training the project would finance five 9-month study courses abroad, ten
short study tours, and on-site courses. Monitoring will seek to improve
the data base for proper project management; to assess the incremental produc-
tion results; to undertake various special surveys and to prepare proposals
for small subprojects to be executed.
44.       Studies and Subprojects to be Approved:  US$407,000 (base cost)
would be reserved for studies related to rural development in Upper Volta,
including preparation of a program for migrants into the project area, and of
an expanded literacy program. US$550,000 (base cost) would be reserved for
execution of an approved test program for migrants, and for small development
actions prepared during the life of the project, in response mainly to requests
expressed by farmers or villagers for schemes to which they would contribute
in cash or in kind, or in response to need identified during execution for
small actions complementing the principal project objectives. These small
projects would be approved by the Association in line with agreed criteria.
Project Costs and Financing
45.       Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties from which the
project is to be exempted, are estimated to be US$22.1 million, including a
foreign exchange component of US$10.0 million (45 percent). A detailed
breakdown of project costs and financing plan is shown in the Credit and
Project Summary.  Physical contingencies added to base costs are 15 percent
for civil works and farm equipment, and 10 percent for vehicles, non-farm
equipment and operating costs. International inflation is allowed for at
8 percent in 1982, declining to 6 percent in 1986 (except for fertilizers for
which higher rates have been used); local inflation has been taken at 12
percent in 1982, declining in line with international inflation to 10 percent
in 1986.



- 13 -
46.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.8 million would finance 31 percent
of net project costs.  The Association would act as cooperating agency for
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for a loan of
US$7.9 million (36 percent of project cost) to be disbursed in general, pari
passu with the IDA Credit. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econo-
mique (CCCE) would finance US$1.9 million (9 percent of project cost) and the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) would contribute US$1.2 million (5
percent of project cost). The French finance will be on a parallel basis with
IDA/IFAD for technical assistance, seed production and agriculture, livestock
integration, and on a joint basis with IDA/IFAD for the adaptive research,
village groups and monitoring components. External finance of US$17.8 million
would in effect cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs (US$10.0 million)
and US$7.8 million or 64 percent of local costs (US$12.1 million). Upper
Volta's contribution is 20 percent of project costs; 4 percent from benefi-
ciaries; and 16 percent from commercial sources under existing arrangements.
Government would contribute US$1.2 million to recurrent costs of the ongoing
project, and allocate a further US$0.9 million of support from France; these
costs, however, as with the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 1079-UV), are not included in the definition of project costs. It is
currently estimated that funds of the ongoing project will be exhausted in
September 1982. As credit signing may occur after this, retroactive financing
of up to US$330,000 of eligible expenditures would be permitted. Moreover, as
in other recent Upper Volta projects, due to Government-s fiscal constraints,
and in order to assist project implementation, an amount of US$330,000 would
be advanced from the IDA Credit and IFAD loan to be placed in a Special
Account to prefinance eligible expenditures (Sections 3.02 and 7.01(a) of
Credit Agreement).
47.       Expenditures on total inputs in the project area not included in
the definition of project costs, are estimated at US$34.7 million in current
terms over the next five years, and would mainly be borne by farmers directly,
or in the form of reduced prices for cotton. Of the amount, Government would
need to find some US$2.5 million for subsidies on fertilizers used on cereals,
assuming a reduction in subsidy levels broadly in line with obligations under
the Credit Agreement for the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project. As indicated previously, a special Fertilizer Credit is currently
being discussed with Government. The fiscal implications of the project
to the Government will be covered to a large extent by anticipated increased
revenue plans from indirect taxes and taxes on cotton. A potential fiscal
implication exists should extension costs not be reduced at project completion
to the level needed to simply maintain output, or alternatively supported by
external finance under a project designed to produce further production
gains.



- 14 -
Procurement, Disbursement and Audits
48.       The following procurement procedures would apply:
Project Element              US$ Million            Procurement Procedure
(i)    Construction under contract    0.2         Local procedures acceptable to IDA.
(ii)   Construction materials for       1.9       International competitive bidding
construction under force                   (ICB) for contracts above CFAF 25
account, vehicles and                      million (US$83,000); local competitive
equipment                                  bidding for contracts between CFAF
5-25 million; local competitive
shopping for contracts under CFAF 5
million (US$16,700). Procedures
satisfactory to France for contracts
of US$0.3 million financed wholly by
France.
(iii)  Animal traction equipment        3.4       From the partly IDA-financed para-
statal Rural Equipment Fund, with
prior agreement of IDA that prices
remain competitive, otherwise under
local procedures acceptable to IDA.
(iv)   Oxen and cereals for             4.0       Direct purchase by farmers in local
village grain banks                        markets.
(v)    Incremental fertilizers          3.4       As part of bulk orders by SOFITEX
and insecticides                           through limited international
tendering.
(vi)   Other incremental inputs         0.6       Government procedures, private
traders procedures, or procedures
satisfactory to France.
(vii)  Technical assistance,            2.8       Not applicable.
audits, scholarships
(viii) Local staff salaries and         5.0       Not applicable.
sundry expenses
(ix)   Subprojects to be approved      0.8        Generally as above.
22.1



- 15 -
49.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.8 million and the proposed IFAD loan
of US$7.9 million would be disbursed, allowing for delays, over an estimated
six years, in the ratio of 40:60, except for technical assistance (other than
aerial surveys), for which the ratio would be 100:0, as follows:
IDA     IFAD    Percentage of
Project Element                                     -US$ ('000)-    Expenditures
(i) Construction
(a)  By force account for adaptive research
and village groups components                 180      280          60
(b)  Other, by contractor or force account          75      120         100
(ii) Vehicles and equipment
(a) For adaptive research, village
groups, and monitoring components             20        30          60
(b)  Other, except milling equipment               150      230         100
(iii)  Animal traction and milling equipment            1,305    1,960         100
(iv)  Credit for oxen and cereal banks                 1,150    1,730          100
(v) Scheduled salaries and operating expenses
(a) For adaptive research, village groups,
and monitoring components                    265       400          60
(b)  Other                                       1,200    1,800         100
(vi) Technical assistance, studies, audits and
scholarships
(a)  Aerial surveys for monitoring component        60       90          60
(b)  Other                                       1,380        -         100
(vii)  Subprojects to be approved                         170       250         60
(viii)  Initial deposit in Special Account                 130       200           -
(ix)  Unallocated                                        715       810
Total                    6,800    7,900
50.       Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented, except for scheduled salaries, operating expenses, credit for oxen,
and labor and sundry expenses for force account construction, which would be
submitted with certified detailed statements of expenditures whose support-
ing documentation would be retained for verification by the project auditors
and for inspection in the course of project supervision. As with preceding
projects, the various accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, and certified copies of the audited
accounts and the auditor-s report would be sent to the Association within six
months of the end of each financial year (Section 5.01 of Credit Agreement).
Benefits, Economic Analysis and Risks
51.       Direct Beneficiaries of the project would be about 46,000 farm
families in the area. Benefits result from ncreases in annual crop produc-
tion, raising farm incomes, improving nutrition and increasing on-farm
employment. Farmers in the area are very poor as indicated by the per
head annual crop income of traditional farmers of US$78. By the end of the
project, the model for a farmer using improved techniques and animal traction
indicates a per head crop income of US$96 - an increase of 23 percent. In the



- 16 -
north of the area, the poverty is even more marked; all the farm budgets
indicate that the per head annual crop incomes of traditional farm families
could increase from US$36 to US$41 with improved techniques and animal trac-
tion. The farmers is the northern area can continue to be reached with
minimal marginal costs. In view of the 12 percent rate of return for the
northern zone, monitoring will pay particular attention to this area in order
to review achievement of the objectives and prepare modifications if need be,
and the adaptive research component will seek to establish what improvements
in extension recommendations may prove attactive to farmers. Additional
benefits derive from:  (i) the livestock component which would benefit all
livestock owners in the area; (ii) the village group support component which
would bring greater self-reliance to the farmers of the area, while relieving
the ORD of some of its present tasks; and (iii) the anti-erosion components
which would counter the trend of declining soil fertility thereby bringing
back into production lands abandoned due to soil degradation. The project's
overall rate of return is estimated to be 21 percent.
52.       There are no unusual technical risks associated with the project for
which the proposals are simple and have already been tested within the project
area and elsewhere in Upper Volta. However, there is a generally higher risk
in the north due to lower rainfall and poor soils. The main elements of risks
are: (i) inadequate use of modern inputs, in particular fertilizer, due to
restricted supplies caused by subsidy funding problems or decreased demand
because of input price increases not being adequately compensated for by
increased output prices; (ii) constraints in the marketing system in providing
an outlet for the expected cereals surplus; (iii) slow responsiveness of
farmers especially in the north; (iv) shortcoming of livestock and land
husbandry practices to counter the possible decline in soil fertility; and
(v) delays in funding of operating expenses by Government. Recognizing
these risks, particular attention is being given to a dialogue with Govern-
ment concerning subsidies in the context of a proposed Fertilizer Credit,
strengthening of the role of village groups in marketing, adaptive research,
and monitoring generally.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. These include the following conditions of effectiveness:
(a) conditions of external finance are fulfilled; and (b) IFAD appoint IDA
as Cooperating Institution.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve che proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
July 8, 1982



-18-                                           Annex I
Fasel 1    of  .5
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGETED AVERAGES
AMEA (THOUSAND SQ. KUN.)                                                      ___  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE27
TOTAL              7.2                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      125.6              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   70.0        100.0     210.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.0         13.6      26.0                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOtUSANDS)  4164.0       5072.0    6064.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.7            6.8      10.3                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        10.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          29.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Di.                        15.2        1l.5       21.8                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      34.7         41.5      47.5                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.8         43.9      44.7                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.3         53.2      52.5                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.9       2.8                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.0/c     1.8/c                 2.7                     2.8
URBAN                               5.7          5.7       5.9                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.6         48.0      48.0                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.8         24.3      24.2                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.2       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          101.0        102.0      93.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.8         89.4      92.8/d                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMSS PER DAY)          71.1         68.9      70.37d                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.3         19.2      19.07w                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      62.9         57.8      50.6                  26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.2          37.2      38.9                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER                                                       129.9                   118.5
THOUSAND)                           252.3        235.0     211.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         12.0      25.0/e                23.9
URBAN                                *-         35.0      50.0dh                54.9
RURAL                                ..         10.0      23.0oT                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          4.0       4.O/e                25.8
URBAN                                *-         49.0      47.07T                63.1
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          81647.1     87448.3   50000.0                32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4090.0/f    3984.3    3650.0                 3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1717.1       1575.6    1590.0                1225.0                  1036.4
'JRBAN                            207.6/g      269.2     329.0/d               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                            3089.9/g    2439.2    2485.5Td               1712.1                  3678.6
AD14ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..      31.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               7.5/h         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           .



-19-                                    Annex I
Page 2   of  5
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY:    TOTAL                  8.0        12.0      20.5                  63.2                   83.3
MALE                 12.0        16.0      26.0                  72.7                   96.1
FEMALE                5.0         9.0      15.1                  50.3                   30.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.5         1.0       3.3                  10.2                   15.3
MALE                  1.0         2.0       4.3                  13.2                   19.4
FEMALE                0.3         1.0       2.4                   6.6                   11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SCONDARY) 21.2         14.7       16.1                  7.9                    4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           47.3        44.5      56.0                  47.4                   38.6
SECONDARY                         19.8        22.6      20.0                  26.2                   23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        1.5/g       5.0/i      5.0LI               34.0                   35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         1.3       1.7/e                 3.0                   31.9
RADIO RZCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7        17.2      18.4                  34.8                   71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1/f       1.2       1.2                   1.7                   17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         0.3       0.3                   2.9                   19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         0.2       0.5                   1.1                    0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    2379.9       2779.9    3178.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.1        46.8      46.5                  34.1                   36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             92.0        87.0      82.0                  78.4                   56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.0         8.0      13.0                   9.2                   17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.2        54.8       52.4                 41.4                   37.0
MALE                                60.8        58.8       56.6                 53.9                   46.9
FEMALE                              53.5        50.9      48.3                  29.1                   27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9        0.9                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESMTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      164.0                134.3                  507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      105.0                -82.9                  200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  96.4                  523.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      53.0                  60.4                  203.6
ESTIKATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  39.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  Due to msigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1963; /g 1962; /h 1964; /i 1972; LI 1974.
Ray, 1982



-20-                                             Annex I                                   P.C.  of 5
DEFII4ITI99S OP SOCILU I9(ltCd7OM
aoo        itae O  data .r-  dea   froa eorrrdrorlLy Jatfed rho  -ie aorho-ttatv  rod  ethabtle, be ehuaid aba  be ratd toot IhY rap   at to  Iditr-
narta.I y           cepr ola -s.oo   of rho lath of rttotordtoro  drIetIars  ad tocre.e  aged- bY difforset ooa.rrte.  It  Oho               ttt   ho data.  The data or. sre
thol1a ..  orta)f.  to d a..t  actor  at eggltado.. tod..ot  trodo. otd Ohro,dtetarcartr-ho  -ol o  dhtff.-oo   borrorScI.                trh..
Ths retereota  jroopr irs  Cr) the area totoe ~~ry cat  otho  rbrtroty rod2) a otnt          -crt  arch  -orrhot higr.r acroago  trace   th.  the a-ary  ra ..p
tlrlt at'   ty   oath tt.ea Igotap car date tar that hotto.or.  Otoca rho coerge   f cc..t Ilee  -ma   :ha lcdh.ot.r. detnde or tr  ooltaIbt try of dat
rodbIa'       tfo,catreaeh   ottd 1"I  I1            atrtragooao  of too"t,atteto  to  Trah -o  Ir ..e.r I... ...t.ly ..rfalla  copahog  ho cott  cf
AREA (thoatoad rq.te.)                                                                                 Pataca    rcCacla   ootr                  a o. tad caat-Poaltta   tr
or-Lt - Tarot-9. oci ra co  catoaIct toad area ted t1h1od                    19e7;9ao  dote.            ,bha. oa  rta)  I     ct, r  b~Y thoirtb trapat to robor at Sce:ptr    bet
Sa  atta      Erteareof aghtlao   area trod teprrl   rpereacroly                              ovtabet  cabf tIc   a  cot   gooe   ateohltrdSr ro   r    r
Stct pa. poraree  000ftt  altierh gold.r.  or to tie  tattoo; 1979 dora.                      hIItrrorrrc.               Ceptoa          ooeoteaoerrercloaia
-tOat4I by      . a .ero ....ba   .ertad aa Aort  Uthl Artae  (1918-Al hoetel; 1960,                   acd   dtc-t ..r...r rot cere-rott  e-rfod  Iy aIbece                  htb
i970, act triO  dat,.                                                                                 gooltt .a..rtt   atro,  r1do1fc.  arc.) Ahtch affr. apa,               er   tot
dereto otd proodt  a Litilrt   trou  of  rditat fathl tf- "a.    o  roar t
ENEhRG  ClrSCpMFTION PER CAPITA -cto    aetctra  o-Inrri   ..t.gy (cottrl-apeearo   crrt  tattcde WHO.t pri-carat)gerore. Ill optoota
tad  CcAcato  racrlote.rarara  aae  ca nytta-   ae.ao    arIetertrr-atrca-rt ao.Ot3a   caaSctsard ardrra  aft rateroty
i"l at   tro  -crraa  ca  rq.cat... par -pta .;r t  960, 3970. rad  979                              c-trr      Spar at-or h-     pla -eoa   arcidad caby  oder race .
Tartyrtaao,9-ot Ct;aaaa                         . Aa at Ott  0;  dAb, 1970, tad 1dd0               SOUSIO
blha  ya-atotba  (ro--a  aS  t.1r  ) -Ar tc at -btab t   rr   ytataroct                              A  aaahod totetoeXcie to    af..     totraaoArh.,. Illaog  co IaI
dittorot as bilae taroarose eYIotfoc r a-oparsbatrY of illa                                         oat rhe teca   atat.  A bh..crat rr Ladgac mly oroy oat ha totadad  to
aorta zatattior; 0990,I 1'7. ot   SOdr.                                                       rho h.t. rf  at.,1 e itotot-Ipryo
yccaastrao Protect rcoa                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaaraeettI r  a f rr.oc. or, toor - tart  arbr..o  caret -orgeae-
L.aato   at  oa  0309 - Ca...art yapatetbar arojoatlr   ate bared at 1900hattpera eeao  to alt.  chro, rod.   taro  ocaycdote-tt
-tros. sot.Llt Strata         IllS saaora    acottlta   or1 77.  yr.s     The yaafCrrtoacL.  inttog   Otto eat -otto t-talg 'Y                                 roaa    rerg
too footalry toerde farprlrto   pa-rose.                                                        adcte   ceter  Ara
ea.c  ac.reaa.-   Thri  ra athoa-t arty ofter feortilityrredorbt                                     rcy -.. 4tea.patt aareIrcaty trotder ahtl ranh aura b-tt
at ocr.cytaaL         ret.a....   h  arrotarorl        Y I.,.rit  alc  te-ototr                                 itb   rtra   obcata  ttt boottr  cay t-oad 100 pccr-t
ar -aeda   c hoe b.Ia a  the prajoa  acrorre  a   i the.aaatahc  coor1 coyatoll  ate rotor or atoc-  oto   ft t)5ct3t
thh.r recto   2000, sad coo  .I e rso  taclitr at frot bLL,yIrar  to .eylt-                       S-oaar c-       o   raroa  ercsdcet      aCatroadeabica.OtecatoarY
Par  ta   ..t.c 1arat- at crachod - ma. Yror otte  -rrtt-y pop-Oatat                         y            ....o teetl  aoattr.t.   c   aorrrrro too    at                raccyt
ecootalt or rear hod.                                                     aetatl~~~~Iy of 12 to  07 Y-eo  of a. get  rtreoo-dara  c--es  era ISetrotar
car at  .       M-iSd-ra ...P.ttt    poo aq.... xliteetll (105 horoe   tacrttlertea   (Perc                                           If at  oaatca -try     tcoI aa  tttc
tott arta; 1990. 1570  rcA  1973 tat.acadochoi.  radatt.t.  r other ytaroa    ahtah apare   t, ldeorh-
Pr a.-to. aobclao    to  - Cooparod or aboo  for o9hatrco    Ora,atO   or re dacepere-  at arcadary ioreteatar..
arty;It9.190odd07  dsea.                                                                       PcotL-ooahorrr'Y' orteSID sod ,erod,e- Tort. rtadore  -aate   to
IIy....s). adrt cttodCStoe old arac) soprcrtaa   l-erpart-                                         corep    -dt          Soe
aetar; 199, 0970. ae  [995 dora.                                                           Molt, Liro...or rote Crarat -. Ltlrererderdae   (abte cacar  rod atltrO
Pootlattac  racobSata(t-ato     - Itora   -   ,..tL torbh corer at raa1 Sid-                    soaIe     forc        -Ootr  odalt cop.ral ca    .erd 15 forte  ..t  -rt.
Poatractarac   'ar 1970-AC        . t 7 .ar  1970-rd.
Pata.ac har  0rof (y~p--yo)~        o   - Ado... Iraa-b rate  af tobt  coca-               CtOOtS TION
papti...o; 1409b.690,   do 1 99-0,   Soar97-.                                                       ehtrryorloor
Crc 3ir,teh Rats (tee rhoo...olt - Aorr1aai arh   piroh clacrd   aS- oldd-Yea                      Iar   eoor  (a   ioor  aolta)-At  ye   itaet-c   o    t
Icad tot190   97.a   1980 data.                                                                     ttaaaearra -     eroholbio  rcI.                 c   oaata;to oo    c
.. Lir  orer; L9tatt 1970     eretrcc    ttta  o390  37,dr  1990.                                  eter.d.. IS ItraP- Ioaiarhrd  Oacoortoa
Rte -t    - ?tro  R----co rArr. ooast    .. ChaadO-ghattat ca         ll oicetcb-rotat   ottaet ioroi.t.tat-d V.racltc    arract toi
aS hboo-carrro  deotta ptode  atpocofrrfrtfgh phoo.                       ptja.                ror L.psl  cotI dr-S"aoa.d.. .Ylottata   rtldaric r T..                 rob alasra
rate   boro   -drr   oscr  o   retd  ora      perroacieote                                      lcaareot    o  erco~   earctata  O   eYoe  ootSt
praacatto  at al  load coodlttee    S0rtocct.oo orladet ard rod fot art          tabste rOdTiLoto.tdeL yer,- ltclhh- go.aiotaTe  todraco-I  clare-
caOD aA et aUcrIOeeN   cdccpaeetbr    919.17.rt39  are.                                             Tro      "doar ytorte (tyacoorde) -IllcrcaIc-         .  Scat  p_rr    tttdr
1P.. cor Ftro atrld ci.caarle (r tet-at  ratoeror                   f - Co -pate   -raa              acted Ab o  ar.a. Ilyr  hat oat. P. lc -r  Stanare.  ethoto  arc..
ftryaoolo  ti ared f-ad            P....r..at ..a . Itll otoorr   coc  sll.oI                coirtac cact.1  iort   at oI  rr.     Dolatr   ctstttrticotcaeor
eatrre.ad.ceoe  It- b    rcak.  le  eppd    o  eI aoderafeP Y     ee.   oed.                     Feao Ceca)-yrorOocfre   rpe,g   a-trtOto
qoclre   roa   ortadI  oSdehc   rod  -aor it ....olbaetg.  toqff ca ..dorr    rtor      Lbrftra   500.  orty    tco   a
fcraorl le d;1961hO  ISIll  Rod 197  data                                                   390M90cdt                aa
Ier ca  o   toaa t       ootet9%"   ri  Cooo  cr  s)    Part   - tcote   -d per-ect                   artttdtI... tote CoerreyoC  - robo. er, or   erl-doct    tyorlo 
.rOt 00pI  c  trdprdy    "r  cpty.   b   food te dobodorbapre-i..    .   .to-.Iarporeaor                                      Ales   g.r rotl, eat. aIIoat    ra  fre:
atlrear   f  0ote    rota    rtotyc  a   a  00l Iran  at sahert rodPI0990. 0971,ban  1960    L7 dr. TarIcco  tee    0  1,e  arttato   a
otted  Scar aclor Y et  pter1o9e70cr  dy;191-S.170o19177t0a.                             oibo  ISeIlT0
00h   are d -)lrh  tar  (cS .        haad       ttldah   e    hcra .o..t..rta.,.If?rh'tat  toc'co 1I tart to--                                arot. rot otaC -I a       tItyetc.oe
a0d0ocytd   cosbta. ftceptldcettthrorrtat;fror1d1ctaooatta                                            cPero.cthel0crttrtt., ..d           oto   20r.. coo .ocyaoccrr
bolos data dactord  fror lIfe~"' cblte l. Ad, 1370. tad  uAoaq.                             a          tao oido. "
ato ro)    *0   37  oa  t991 dart,  hdabyfSoAtp-id Or tariryrared It    car  tdaebleaata
- a  ar  po  taaead  Ir  hlthe   090.307  ar  095  ora                                 aralto   otttytaterOtat c  rot  acaa  tas  00 _frhb aoccra
5cr atyoaotrCoctet  achro, aSd carol  atS~ ceorPaIobl  otoecoal                               otiaLdae_
tao    ar   athtto   cr000 adhrho -Idrs. rtptor. t At                   L ralt  Tehir)  00         caol. cra rpoeo              otortll.   Iaac- htio     Ao t   er arc 1cr
toatcc  r   rr     drtrcdooepr  af thei day 65                       tocho   roe                    PtCOM IT IBT
.R.br  atpopr   oco I    t. hi       aro a L atbCh otr.   by oterac al          'Saatd      2-...P..       0  .rI     d'                                                 -
Itheillecd too  atl.  dfrparl.            IO.ca  19070ror   trereet  at8 e.regh  erocoteh1d
art aorta-roor by roertSotto  oratoa or the te  or rhoYcr11ET tadOUPS
tar lcoesilathaae.~ ~~~~~~~.brf  .r.fli.Itl-i9                                        71.r.-                                     PI.iI
cocalothar ret Phyahelda - p~'11Optro  abdd   rste-a   orrotdphr-                                                                     toh-     ttSoIl  ao   t t a
Yttqaltr  rIa      rehcusad -oo          I at  ...ar h.tty  tete .   -tacY.ootc ot                                                    oI lcet- art  croa          -hor    l-erea
Pcratatlro oar atteror Porrar - Popalarhat dhaldod by camber at proerlo 1005                                                  tor 3992~~~Ad
orb  red irerta  erodoore otroP. roerr...san. cIortoi  orer  oa
rartcarciEolea..h    -                                                     -                 =    I.-I          q= .



-21-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA - GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1980 US$ 2101/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ MILLION              %
GNP at Market Prices                                  1,322.3             100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                               218.2               16.5
Gross National Savings                                   -9.5               -0.7
Current Account Balance                                -227.7              -17.2
Exportsof Goods, NFS                                    174.6               13.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                                   498.8               37.7
OUTPUT AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1980
Value Added               Economically Active Population 2/
US$ million      %             ('000)            x
Agriculture                                            454.3      39.6            2472            83.0
Industry                                               204.0      17.8             357            12.0
Services                                               489.8      42.6             149             5.0
Total                                                1,148.1    100.0             2978           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                    % of GDP
1980       1981                 1980    1981
Current Revenues                                       39.5        43.3                15.1    13.8
Current Expenditures                                   35.4        42.5                13.5    13.5
Current Surplus or Deficit                              4.1         0.8                  1.6     0.3
Capital Expenditure                                    39.8        43.3                 15.2    13.8
Foreign Financed                                       35.6        33.7                13.6    10.7
Budgetary Savings                                       4.1         0.8                  1.6     0.3
Overall Surplus/Deficit                                -0.1        -8.8                  0.0     2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                             1976       1977       1978       1979      198Q
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                                31.55      35,58      42..52     46,25    53.17
Bank credit to Public Sector                         -6.95      -7.74      -3.29      -2.3"    -3.97
Bank credit to Private Sector                        32.41      45.75      54.81      57.15    60.98
PERCENTAGE OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as x of GDP                    20.0       18.9       18.8       18.4      20.3
Low-Income Price Index (.    = 100)                 126.1      167.7      218.7      204.0    228.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Low Income Price Index                               -7.0       33.0       30.4       -6.7      11.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        -41.d      -11.3       57.5       26.9    -69.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        50.1       41.2       19.8        4.3       6.7
l/ Atlas method. Based on revised national income and population estimates.
2/ Estimate for 1976-79
May 1982



-22-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
I/        1                                      /
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1979-/    19801/    19811'    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS-!
Exports of Goods, NFS            159.8      174.6      149.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            487.0      498.8      422.2                                                                      *
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      -327.2    -324.2    -272.9        (Average of 1979 - 81)
Workers' Remittances (net)         84.5      89.4       77.7      Livestock           24.3        30.6
Other Factor Payments (net)       -4.6       -6.6       -E.4      Cotton              31.3        39.5
Net Private Transfers              11.8      13.7       11.8      Oilseeds            11.4        14.4
Balance on Current Accounts    -235.5    -227.7    -189.8         All other           17.3        15.5
Total               79.3      lnO.(
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Official Capital Grants          142.0      144.8      106.9
Net M1T Borrowings                76.0       69.1       54.9      Public Debt, incl.
guaranteed                 508.0
Disbursements                     (80.6)    (78.5)   (67.0)       Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                         (-4.7)    '-9,4)   (12.1)          Debt
Net IMF C-edits                     2.4        2.4       l.S      Total Public Debt
Other 2items -p-'     33.0       20.9     18.0         Outstanding and disbursed  323.0
Other items -/                     33.0       20,9     18.0
Change in Reserves (- = increase)-17.9        -9.5      8.2
3/                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 198G./
Memo:  Imports,-  c.i.f.          300.5      357.9    298.8
of which:  Petroleum        34.0      53.5      56.3      Total Public Debt
Outstanding and disbursed    9.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING December 1980
Outstanding and
Disbursed                     77.2
Undisbursed                     52.6
Outstanding incl.
undisbursed                  129.8
Rate of Exchange
1976:   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
1978:   US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:   US$1.00 - CFAF 212.72
1980:   US$1.00 = CFAF 211.30
1981:   US$1.00 - CFAF 280.70
1/  Provisional
2/  Including errors and omissions, direct investment, short-term capital.
3/  Official trade only
4/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services
not available
May 1982



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 1, 1982)
(US$ Million) a/
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose               IDA     Undisbursed
Ten Credits fully disbursed                               50.7            -
557-WV   1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-           6.0           1.57
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-WV   1975   Republic of   Rural Roads                  7.5           0.78
Upper Volta
640-IN    1976   Republic of   Rural Development           9.4           0.37
Upper Volta   Fund II  -
706-UV    1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-         3.6           0.28
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-IN    1977   Republic of   Railway                     5.2           1.97
Upper Volta
759-IN    1977   Republic of   Small & Medium              4.0           2.59
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-IN    1978   Republic of   Urban Development           8.2           5.68
Upper Volta
956-UV    1979   Republic of   Education II               14.0          11.85
Upper Volta
982-IN    1980   Republic of   Forestry                   14.5          12.85
Upper Volta
1013-IN   1980   Republic of   Niena Dionkele Rice
Upper Volta   Development                6.5           5.69
1097-IN   1981   Republic of   Second Bougouriba
Upper Volta   Agricultural Develop-
ment Project             16.0          15.4
1164-IN   1981   Republic of   Fourth Highway Project  46.0 b/          46.0
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                               191.60
of which has been repaid                           0.18
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                            191.42
TOTAL undisbursed                                                105.03
a/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/   Not effective.



-24-                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 1, 1982).
Amount in US$ millions
Year   Obligator    Type Business   Loan        Equity          Totals
1978   Sovoplas         Plastic        .41        .13             .54
D.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 1, 1982) 1/
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veterinary
services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the provision
of technical assistance. The project, which has been extended one year to the
end of 1982, is entering its last year of operation. It is anticipated that
' by the end of the year almost all the project-s goals would have been achieved.
The cattle market is about to be completed and 30 vaccinations yards will be
completed during the third quarter of 1982; the problem of access to the
holding ground is about to be solved. After a slow start the project's group
ranch component is now progressing well and the three pilot ranches, totalling
about 80,000 ha are fully developed and stocked with 9,000 head of cattle,
owned by 75 families. Two more ranches are about to be created on a BND
credit.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which
is to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. By the
conclusion   of the last construction campaign (September 30, 1981) the
project had realized: erosion control works (15,050 ha); bottomland develop-
ment (1,885 ha); small scale irrigation and improved bottomland development
(315 ha); construction of 569 wells, 160 tube wells and some 340 village
level buildings including inter alia stores, meeting rooms and training
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-25-- 
-25-                 ~~~~~ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
centers; had provided medium-term credit for agricultural equipment; and,
as part of the unidentified component, financed production of forest tree
seedlings for village woodiots. An appropriate field trial program has been
developed and project results are being closely monitored. The project has
been well managed and the RDF management unit has been used to handle funds
for small scale actions provided by other donors. Not all appraisal targets
were reached, however, because Government priorities and farmers expectations
have led project management to put more emphasis on erosion control works
(164% of appraisal target) and well construction (109%) and less on bottomland
development (70%) and small-scale irrigation (63%). To allow RDF to maintain
its present rate of activities until the proposed third phase project is
approved, the Government has obtained additional funds from the Netherlands.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20.0 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date:  December 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
EEC Special    US$3.5 Million Equivalent; Credit of January 11, 1980;
Action:         Effective Date:  July 30, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Credit 38:
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvest-
ment study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to
the Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domes-
tic contracting industry. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed
in June 1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso-Banfora section in May 1979. Equipment
for vehicle weight control and traffic counting arrived in November 1979.
The technical assistance to the DOT has been in place since January 1977.
The Road Maintenance Study has been completed by BCEOM and reviewed, and has
served as the basis for the Fourth Highway Project. Arrangements for provid-
ing technical assistance to domestic contractors are being finalized. In view
of a project cost overrun due to currency realignments and the need to recon-
struct four bridges, initially not included in the project, supplementary
financing of US$3.5 million is being provided through the EEC Special Action
Account. Delays in the execution of civil works due to contractor problems
has resulted in slower than anticipated implementation. These problems are
now largely resolved and the required civil works are underway.



-26-                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit 706     West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
and 706-5:      (IDA) and Can$3.0 Million (Canada) Credits of May 23, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
EEC Special    US$3.0 Million Equivalent (EEC); Credit of February 8, 1980;
Action          Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Credit 49:
The project sought to strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishing
a Financial and Administrative Unit to assist project accounting and financial
control; financing a ginnery and training facilities for project extension
workers; supporting an annual extension program; developing low cost irriga-
tion schemes; and implementing a pilot settlement component and a pilot
women's component. Cumulative incremental production of cotton over the
five years of the project to date is estimated at 63,000 tons, compared to
56,000 tons at appraisal; and for cereals 29,500 tons compared to 32,000 tons
at appraisal. Most of the physical targets have been met, including construc-
tion of 75 village grain stores, a training center, and a new ginnery.
However, execution of the irrigation and women-s components has been slow.
The settlement component has not been executed. Aided by favorable weather,
incremental cotton production in 1979/80 (19,000 tons) was double the appraisal
estimate. Cereal production is difficult to assess with accuracy; means of
improving monitoring of cereal output are being discussed. The extension
service, which is adopting the training and visit approach, is improving in
efficiency. The low cost irrigation schemes and women's activities have fared
poorly so far, and no action has been taken on the pilot settlement project.
The Financial and Administrative Unit has established project accounts and
updated cost statements and budgets aimed at keeping future project expendi-
tures in line with available funds.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger (RAN) 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
alignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies. Procurement of goods and services provided for in the Project
description has been implemented or carried out. Major civil works were
completed by end December 1981. All other physical components are being
implemented but have experienced delays due to administrative problems. Late
contract awards have caused slow execution of sleeper renewal and embankment
construction. Ballast production is also behind schedule. Remaining funds
in the Credit accounts will be sufficient to complete the components of the



-27-                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Regional Railway Project located in Upper Volta. The railway presently
experiences severe financial constraints detrimental to its ability to main-
tain properly its equipments. A survey of RAN's management procedures will be
undertaken soon by a team of independent experts, under a separate project,
with a view to preparing a plan of action to redress the situation.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promotion
of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a study
on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of External
Debt at the Treasury. The technical assistance financed by the IDA credit
has had little impact on the evolution of BND as a financially sound and
well managed institution and the Association is currently discussing with
Government the best use of the remaining line of credit to BND. OPEV and
CNPAR activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed under
two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly
due in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from
previously agreed upon design standards. An agreement was reached at end
1979: (a) to proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the Cissin
neighborhood with particular attention being paid to affordable standards,
minimizing demolition and relocation, and community participation; and (b)
to hire a municipal engineer as Deputy Project Director. In Bobo-Dioulasso,
the Municipality is constructing roads with force account and a contract
for drainage has been awarded.  In Ouagadougou tender documents are being
finalized. Agreement has been reached for starting the Credit Union for
mobilizing saving in the neighborhoods. Rehabilitation of schools and dis-
pensaries and assistance components to Municipalities of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Ouagadougou have been implemented successfully. The project has been slow to
attain the hoped for momentum and should still receive close supervision.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 956:    Second Education Project.  US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 15, 1979; Effective Date: July 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
An extension of the First Education Project, the project would
expand the rural education system to youths who formerly had no access to
primary education through expansion, repair and equipping of physical facili-
ties, and training and management support. It would also provide training for
three categories of workers presently in short supply in Upper Volta; agricul-
ture project managers, building construction foremen, and road and equipment
maintenance personnel. Project management has improved, but shortage of
counterpart funds may jeopardize further improvements. Construction of the
rural youth training centers is proceeding satisfactorily, and the first
deliveries of educational materials are expected in early 1982. Architectural
designwork for two rural development training centers and an administration
building, which are being financed by the African Development Fund, is behind
schedule and requires better control by the project staff. The technical
assistants for the rural youth training component are in post. The partially
completed study on linkages between formal and rural education indicates poor
achievement in literacy and arithmetic skills for the rural youth training
system. Proposals for the strengthening of the national evaluation capacity
are being developed.
Credit 982:    Forestry Project.  US$14.5 Million Credit of April 7, 1980.
Effective Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
The project provides a comprehensive program to strengthen the
operational capacity of the Forestry Administration with staff and equipment
to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and exploiting
the country-s forest resources within the framework of the national forestry
plan. The project will also establish 1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantations
and 325 ha of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, manage on a pilot
basis 1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro-reserve and maintain previously
established rainfed tree plantations. A Project Preparation Facility advance
financed preliminary works begun in 1979, including a pedological study and
aerial survey of the Maro-reserves and plantation maintenance and protection
works. The Project Management Unit (PMU) in Ouagadougou and the Project
Operation Unit (POU) in Bobo-Dioulasso are almost fully established and are
operating satisfactorily.  Although clearing and land preparation were very
late, POU established successfully during the first planting season of 1981,
142 ha of rainfed tree plantation in the Maro reserve, and, in liaison with
the natural forest unit, are carrying out a detailed reconnaissance inventory
of the reserve to select sites to be managed by the project. The project will
commence complementary studies on rural forestry and on a national forestry
fund late in 1982.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit 1013:   Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project.  US$6.5 Million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Effective Date:  December 4, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is a pilot phase of a possible three phase program to
convert swampland to more productive use. The main objectives of this phase
would be to test key assumptions regarding future development of swamp areas
and to address price structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. The project will also assist Government to promote institution
building in the subsector, define a national rice policy, create a market
structure to ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train future
rice industry managers. The project has had a slow start with respect to
procurement and staffing. There have been significant cost overruns with
the water control structures. In the first cropping year (second project
year) only 150 ha instead of the 300 ha envisaged were developed. The first
season has disclosed serious technical problems, of which the most fundamental
relates to water availability and appropriate rice variety. The second
cropping season will provide more insight into these difficulties, but it is
questionable whether this pilot project will give rise to a full-scale project
based on the original technical assumptions.
Credit 1097:   Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project:
US$16.0 Million Credit of March 6, 1981; Effective Date:
December 4, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
An extension of the First Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 496-UV), the project aims at further increasing agricultural
and livestock production in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention will be concen-
trated on the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved orga-
nization of training, extension, input distribution and credit. The project
also provides for the implementation of modest animal husbandry practices and
increased use of animal traction. Emphasis will be on increasing yields of
main food crops (millet and sorghum) together with recommendations for cash
crops (yams, groundnuts and cotton). The project includes small programs to
encourage more fruit and fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
Credit 1164:   Fourth Highway Project:  US$46.0 million Credit of
January 28, 1982; Effective Date: April 26, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The main objectives of this project, which has not yet been signed,
are to improve the Ministry of Public Works institutional capacity for main-
tenance operations and to provide better access to rural areas.  The project
consists of: (i) the renewal of the maintenance equipment fleet; (ii) the
construction of workshops and office building; (iii) the incremental costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for routine maintenance; (iv) the costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for the periodic maintenance of about 450 km
of gravel roads; (v) the rehabilitation of about 280 km of gravel roads;
(vi) the resealing of about 320 km or paved roads; (vii) the construction
and initial maintenance of about 1,640 km of new and existing feeder roads;
and (viii) technical assistance, consultants, training and scholarships to
help overcome personnel constraints.



-30-                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission:   1979
(b)  Project Preparation Agency:   Government/Consultants
(c)  Appraisal Mission:   September-October 1981
(d)  Negotiations:   June 7-11, 1982
(e)  Target effectiveness:  October 31, 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The mark-up on inputs, including veterinary supplies, will be
sufficient to cover related costs of distribution by the fourth
year of the project (para. 42);
(b)  The lending conditions for medium-term and short-term credit would
be satisfactory to the Association (para. 42);
(c)  Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)  that all conditions required for the effectiveness of external
finance, other than the IDA credit, had been fulfilled; and
(ii)  that IFAD had appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the IFAD loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.



UI    Y 1591
UPPER VOLTA, /IAUTE-VO0TA                          |        N
VOLTA NOIRE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPAEMNT AG//COLE DE lA  VOL TA NO/RE                     U"
r'                      -U,-a                                                  ''- -- .
)  ~       ~~~~ \__                                                                                   t  y       tla o
"                                '                                           -.    ti'                     - .
"'OLENZ           <                   </ ICSIt 
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NOUNA4,                  >,    )                                                          : .,  jpJ  -' \ -  .tg .  . 4~.   44.
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~        * DUGOP    <       0r---, fl 01A,4~,                                     I I\
....   ....... 
... 4,.,'  4:,4. .Sn_. Sm_'':. --  OR <AS*  



