Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21583
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38380; SCL-383 8A; SCPD-3838S; CPL-3838 1; SCL-3838B)
ON THE FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 37.4 MILLION
TO
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR PROJECT ID: P03416 1
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia-Mexico-Venezuela Country Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their |
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective DECEMBER 15, 2000)
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (MXP)
MXP 9.5500 = US$ 1
US$ 10.47 cents = MXP 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st  December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SHCP = Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico - Ministry of Finance
CNBV = Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores - National Banking and Securities Commission
CNSF = Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros y de Fianzas - National Insurance and Bonding Commission
CONSAR = Comisi6n Nacional del Sistema para el Ahorro del Retiro - National Savings for Retirement
Commission
UIDEP = Investment Unit and Privatization of Parastate Entities of the SHCP
AFORE = Administradoras de Fondos para el Retiro - Private Sector Worker's Pension Fund Manager
SIEFORE = Sociedad de Inversion Especializada de Fondos para el Retiro - Pension Fund Investment
Company associated with the AFORE's.
UDI = Unidades de Inversion - Inflation-indexed unit of account
SAR = Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro - Governmnent managed pension system. Replaced in 1997 by the
AFORE/SlEFORE privately managed pension system.
GOM = Government of Mexico
IPAB = Instituto de Protecci6n al Ahorro Bancario - Institute for the Protection of Bank Deposits.
FOBAPROA = Fondo Bancario de Protecci6n al Ahorro -Bank's Savings Protection Fund absorbed in
1999 by IPAB.
FSRL = Financial Sector Restructuring Loan 3911-ME
FSRP = Financial Sector Restructuring Program adopted by the GOM after the 1994 Peso devaluation.
CSDP = Contractual Savings Development Program
BRFL = Bank Restructuring Facility Loan 7003-ME
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Fernando Montes-Negret



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      5
6. Sustainability                                                                          6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        8
9. Partner Comments                                                                       9
10. Additional Information                                                               10
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     I I
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      15
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         16
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034161                                        Project Name: FINANCIAL SEC T.A.
Team Lieader: Fernando Montes-Negret                       TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type. Core ICR                                         Report Date: May 25, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-38380;
SCL-3838A;
SCPD-3838S;
CPL-38381;
SCL-3838B
CountrylDepartment. MEXICO                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. FF - Financial Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.  02/14/94                                 Effective: 07/11/95
Appraisal:  06/24/94                                   MTR:
Approval:  01/24/95                                 Closing: 06/30/98             06/30/2000
Borrowerl'ImplementingAgency:  NAFINSA/SHCP
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       David De Ferranti
Country Manager:      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:       Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:   Fernando Montes-Negret
ICR Primary Author:   Luis Landa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UNT=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time. No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the Project were: (i) to improve the safety and soundness of the financial system
by enhancing prudential regulation and supervision through a program of assistance for the National
Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) and the National Insurance and Bonding Commission
(CNSF); (ii) to support the development of the pension system through a program of assistance for the
National Commission of the Retirement System (CONSAR); (iii) to improve public investment evaluation
and budgeting procedures and processes of the Investment Unit and Privatization of Parastate Entities
(UIDEP) of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original FTAL was designed prior to the December 1994 devaluation of the Mexican Peso. After the
devaluation, the priorities of the Government of Mexico (GOM) changed significantly compared to those
existent in June of 1994 when the Project was appraised. The negative reaction of financial markets to the
devaluation hit an already weak banking system and exacerbated the financial distress faced by Mexican
banks. This required the GOM to develop a Financial Sector Restructuring Program (FSRP) in close
consultation with the Bank. In February 1995, the Bank began preparation of the Financial Sector
Restructuring Loan (FSRL) to support the Government's FSRP to restore the solvency and soundness of
the financial system. The efforts culminated in June 22, 1995 with the approval of the FSRL (No.
3911-ME) in the amount of US$1,000 million. The FSRP, supported by the World Bank's FSRL, was
designed to: (i) restore the solvency and soudness of Mexico's banking system; (ii) reform the accounting
standards and prudential regulations for banks, and strengthen supervision to prevent future recurrence of
systemic problems; (iii) improve discipline in the provision of liquidity by the Central Bank; and (iv)
initiate reforms in accounting practices and regulation of financial groups and the deposit protection
system.
Successful implementation of Mexico's FSRP required an expansion of the assistance provided under the
FTAL to the supervisory agencies. Assistance to the CNBV was urgently needed in new areas, not
contemplated in the originial FTAL, such as diagnostic studies of banks and preparation of bank
restructuring plans. The financial crisis also highlighted the need to implement reforms to increase and
improve the allocation of domestic savings. Thus, the GOM established the Reform to the Pension and
Contractual Savings System as a key component of its National Development Plan. In this context, it
became necessary to redefine/enhance the types of activities to be supported under the original CNBV and
CONSAR sub-components of LN 3838-ME. A supplemental FTAL was deemed as the most appropriate
vehicle to assist the GOM in these two new priority areas.
Against this background, a supplemental FTAL, in the amount of US$13.8 million, was approved in June
1995 to increase the total Loan amount, from the original US$ 23.6 million, to US$ 37.4 million. The
supplemental Loan supported the expansion of existing as well as new activities under the original FTAL
Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision component. The vast majority of the supplemental financing
was directed to the CNBV to support the important reforms under the FSRP. Supplemental financing to
CONSAR, relative to the originally programmed amounts was small, because this component had already
been redesigned to reallocate financing previously provided for goods and services.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of two components: (i) the Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision
Component implemented by the Government agencies responsible for regulation and supervision of (a)
banking and securities market (CNBV), (b) insurance and bonding (CNSF), and (c) the pension system
(CONSAR); and (ii) the Public Investment Evaluation and Budgeting component implemented by the
-2 -



Investment, Energy and Industry Unit (UIDEP) of the Ministry of Finance (SHCP). The various
sub-components defined in (i) were highly inter-related and highlighted the importance of taking an
integrated approach in Project design. Lack of a consistent approach across Commissions would increase
the possibility of regulatory and supervisory arbitrage and would undermine the credibility of Government
regulations and supervision.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the supplemental FTAL remained the same as the ones defined in the original FTAL.
However, the project activities were enhanced. Some of the additional activities that the CNBV had to
perform in response to the financial crisis, which were not envisaged in the original FTAL, were:
1) Diagnostic studies of troubled banks. The revised FTAL supported the hiring of auditors to assist the
CNBV in conducting rapid, in-depth assessments of bank capitalization, provisioning requirements and
assessing the viability of specific financial institutions;
2) Hiring advisors for the restructuring of troubled banks: Assistance through specialized consultants to
select investment banks and legal advisors to prepare and execute bank restructuring plans; and
3) Identification and measurement of the fiscal cost: Examine possible means to reduce the fiscal costs of
the UDI (inflation-indexed units of account) scheme used to restructure troubled bank assets placed in UDI
trusts.
In a similar fashion, the original objectives of the FTAL's support to CONSAR were centered around the
development of the information and operation systems for Mexico's Retirement Savings System. This
would allow CONSAR to carry out certain primary functions such as the development of its
communications system and national information network. Despite these being "mechanical needs", it was
absolutely essential that they were put in place before the newly born Commission could start performing
its supervisory functions of the redesigned pension system.
With the 1994 devaluation of the Peso, which was an inevitable price adjustment in an economy with a
quasi-fixed exchange rate regime facing non-sustainable current account deficits (8 percent of GDP), the
need to partially substitute extemal for domestic savings became a priority. This was to be achieved
through a reformed pension system. This required that the emphasis of Bank's assistance to the CONSAR
extend beyond the "mechanical aspects" to more fundamental and deeper reforms.
The new and extended agenda for the CONSAR included support to: (i) establish the regulatory
framework for the private investmnent management of SAR accounts; (ii) develop a consistent regulatory
framework for voluntary occupational plans offered by private sector and parastatal enterprises; (iii)
Develop CONSAR's capacity to supervise and inspect SAR accounts; (iv) design a public communications
program to support the pension and contractual savings reform; (v) develop a program of human resource
development and training and (vi) conduct a joint study with the CNSF to develop Mexico's annuities
market.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The first priority of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on June 9,
1994 was to encourage a smooth transition to higher rates of private sector-led growth. The CAS, along
with the FY94 Country Economic memorandum (CEM) Fostering Private Sector Development in the
1990's, identified the strengthening of financial sector supervision, improvements in the pension system,
development of Mexico's domestic securities markets, and upgrading basic infrastructure as important
- 3 -



near-term actions to support private sector-led economic growth in Mexico. The FTAL was thus fully
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in force at the time. The Project design was made
simple and correctly identified the key issues that needed to be addressed at the time of appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Short-run project objectives: The project provided funding to the Government to carry out activities
necessary to fulfill the tranche release conditions for the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan following the
1994 crisis (FSRL Loan 391 I-ME, for an amount of US$1,000 million). Thus, in the short-run, the FTAL
was a "supportive tool" available to finance the activities needed to ensure implementation of the
adjustment operation. The tranche release conditions for the adjustment operation were satisfactorily met.
Long-run objectives: The objectives of the project went beyond the short-run "supportive role". Until the
end of the 1980's, Mexico's financial markets were repressed with high reserve requirements, credit
rationing and controlled interest rates. Financial liberalization initiated in 1989 and culminated in 1991-92
with the privatization of the banking system. However, the process of liberalization and privatization had a
number of flaws, which planted the seeds for the 1994-95 financial crisis. First: liberalization of the
banking system was not complemented by a strong system for banking regulation and supervision. Second:
supervisory skills had in general deteriorated in the previous decade, as the banking system degenerated
into a mobilizer of funds for the government. This created a dis-incentive for modernization of the
supervisory and regulatory frameworks which was further exacerbated because the presidentially appointed
bank directors became more powerful than the directors of the regulatory agencies themselves. Third:
certain pieces of banking and commercial legislation (such as the norms related to secured lending and
bankruptcy) remained untouched.
The "lack of practice" of financial sector regulatory bodies during the period of bank nationalization called
for a complete overhaul of the system upon financial liberalization. In addition to the need for technological
modernization and the re-engineering of regulatory/supervisory policies and procedures, institutional
capacity building, through human capital development, became essential. (i) The "need to leam"; (ii) the
building of the "desire to learn" by means of incentives for civil service in implementing agencies and (iii)
the "tools to learn", through training/consulting activities (courses, workshops, seminars, conferences, visits
to sister institutions abroad, consulting work performed by local and international experts, etc. ), were all
successfully addressed and supported by the FTAL. The institutional capacity building effort has served as
an input for the "production"of updated legislation with stricter enforcement rules. In addition, the
improved institutional capacity has "produced"an improvement of the supervisory roles of the implementing
agencies. The ultimate long-run objective of the Loan which is a safer and more robust financial system in
Mexico began to materialize.
Mexico has achieved great success at overcoming the risk of a systemic collapse of the financial sector.
The CNBV has implemented numerous regulations regarding disclosure; accounting principles; loan
classification; provisioning standards; the definition of capital; risk management practices and other
regulations which are IIow consistent with international best practices. Similarly, dispositions governing the
capital markets have improved significantly (a complete list of all CNBV circulars issued since 1970 and
current legislation governing Mexico's financial markets can be found in www.cnbv.gob.mx). The Mexican
banking system and capital markets have "turned around the corner" of the "crisis avenue" and are now
healthier, more profitable and more importantly, more sustainable.
The new private sector workers retirement pension scheme adopted in 1997, managed by the privately
- 4 -



owned AFORES/SIEFORES, has been one of the greatest accomplishments of President Zedillo's
administration. By CY 2000, assets managed by the retirement pension funds amounted to US$15 billion
and are expected to reach US$165 billion by 2015. The CONSAR is responsible for their oversight and,
through its sustained efforts, has gained recognition as one of the more effective regulators of a private
pension system in Latin America. A complete list of all CONSAR circulars and legislation governing the
Contractual Savings System in Mexico can be found in www.consar.gob.mx.
The insurance industry in Mexico, though small, continues to grow faster than GDP as measured by direct
premium payments. Significant foreign investment has poured into the local industry fueled by an adequate
risk/return tradeoff and the transparency of the regulatory/supervisory requirements under the
responsibility of the CNSF.The annuities market has already been established and is the fastest growing
segment of the insurance industry. These complementary services, which represent the "final leg" to the
ones supplied by AFORES/SIEFORES, is another one of the long-run benefits pursued by both the World
Bank through the FTAL and by the GOM. A complete list of all CNSF circulars and legislation governing
the Insurance and Bonding Industry in Mexico can be found in www. CNSF.gob.mx.
In summary, the outputs produced by the financial sector regulating agencies, as measured by the quantity
and quality of financial sector legislation, have proven themselves satisfactory. The strengthened
institutional capacity required to produce this output, which constitutes an additional long-run benefit for
both the implementing agencies and for Mexico's financial sector as a whole, has been greatly supported by
the activities financed by the FTAL.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Project Objective: To support the development of the pension system through a program of
assistance for the National Commission of the Retirement System (CONSAR): Through a program
supporting the National Commission of the Retirement Savings System (CONSAR), required actions to
carry out major reforms of the Mexican pension system have been taken. Among these actions are: (i)
preparation and enforcement of a new regulatory system for pension funds, (ii) enhancement of CONSAR's
supervisory capabilities, including training of its staff and the introduction of new office technology; (iii)
implementation of main programs of public information of the reforms, disseminated throughout the
country.
Additional programs included required actions to: (i) develop the legal and regulatory framework to allow
private management of SAR accounts; (ii) design and implement new operational policies for CONSAR;
(iii) strengthen CONSAR's capabilities to supervise AFORES/SIEFORES , including the development of
human resources and information technology; (iv) develop public communications campaigns related to the
pension reforms, aimed at encouraging participation in the new system.
Project Objective: To improve the safety and soundness of the financial system by enhancing
prudential regulation and supervision through a program of assistance for the CNBV and the
National Insurance and Bonding Commission (CNSF): The loan has contributed to enhance the
capabilities of the National Insurance and Bonding Commission (CNSF) by supporting programs aimed at
strengthening its supervision capabilities, improving inspection manuals, training its staff, upgrading the
regulatory framework for the insurance industry and disseminating information among the financial
community.
The main contribution of the FTAL to the CNSF was the financing of a 12-month external consultant
company that advise CNSF's senior management and technical staff in: (i) upgrading policies and
procedures, (ii) reviewing the inspection procedures manual; (iii) developing on-the-job training programs;
- 5 -



(iv) organizing staff training programs and seminars; (v) drafting amendments to existing laws, and
regulations related to insurance and re-insurance companies, with a view to achieve consistency with
international best practices; (vi) enhancing actuarial inspection practices and processes, including actuarial
reporting and reserving standards in line with international standards.
The FTAL also financed a number of local seminars and workshops-with participation of well known
international experts aimed at dissemination information and carrying out education campaigns on the
insurance industry among the Mexican financial and academic community.
Project Objective: To improve the safety and soundness of the financial system by enhancing
prudential regulation and supervision through a program of assistance for the National Banking and
Securities Commission (CNBV): The FTAL provided the technical and financial support to (i) carry out
diagnostic audits of, initially, intervened and troubled banks, and subsequently of all major banks, (ii)
implement new accounting rules for banks and other financial intermediaries; (iii) complete studies aimed at
improving the legal/regulatory framework for private debt restructuring, secured transactions and asset
backed securities.
Furthermore, the FTAL has provided technical and financial assistance required by the CNBV in
improving its effectiveness as a supervisor of the banking system. Among the most significant programs
supported by the loan, the following could be mentioned:
(i) Training programs implemented by the CNBV. Programs supported by the loan included the CNBV's
own in-house supervision courses, on-the-job training, as well as training sponsored by other supervisory
agencies, especially those from the United States.
(ii) Enhancement of supervision practices: US Bank examiners (from the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit
and Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency) were second to assist CNBV in
conducting detailed CAMEL-style inspections of all 18 privatized banks. This program set the basis for (i)
introducing a program of annual inspections of each major bank; (ii) reviewing the Manual for Planning
and Administrating On-site Supervision; and (iii) upgrading examination and supervision processes of
auxiliary credit institutions.
(iii) Introduction of methodology to monitor liquidity of the banking sector. The loan financed external
consultants to assist CNBV in upgrading methods for valuation of financial debt instruments, improving
the quality of financial information and its analysis.
(iv) The loan also financed programs to (a) upgrade the information systems; (ii) restructure the processes
and flows of information; (iii) modernize the CNBV's information technology systems program.
Project Objective: To improve public investment evaluation and budgeting procedures and processes
of the Investment Unit and Privatization of Parastate Entities (UIDEP) of the Secretaria de Hacienda
y Credito Publico (SHCP): The contribution of the FTAL in achieving these objectives has been lower
than originally envisaged. This fact was due to the following factors: (i) following a shift in Government
priorities, during 1995 and 1996, the UIDEP concentrated its efforts on privatization of state property
rather than in evaluation of new public investment; and (ii) the lack of budget assigned to the UIDEP to
carry out the programs to be supported by the loan. The only activity financed by the FTAL was a
comprehensive study of pricing of potable water and sewerage treatment for 18 municipalities of the State
of Mexico.
-6 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Appl-icable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
In addition, and beyond the programs supported by the FSRL and the CSDP I and II for which the FTAL
provided critical and financial support to prepare and implement reforms agreed with the Mexican
authorities, the FTAL has contributed to enhance prudential regulation and supervision. The CNBV, in
particular, became the most active implementing agency and was the one which benefited the most by the
FTAL.
The institutional development impact can grossly be measured by the number of activities financed by the
FTAL and by the number of beneficiaries of these activities. The CNBV undertook 165 training activities
(courses/workshops/seminars/conferences) in different areas of financial knowledge attended by 138 of its
staff-members of which, 93 (67 percent), continue to work at the CNBV. In addition, the FTAL supported
48 externally hired consultants many of which provided the critical background for subsequent regulatory
rules issued by the CNBV. In addition, consultants also prepared studies related to: (i) improved
methodologies of supervision and inspection; (ii) Information technology and (iii) development banks and
capital markets among others.
In addition to external consulting work, the CNSF organized 16 courses/workshops/visits which benefited
42 staff-members and organized 6 external/internal seminars with 911 participants benefiting from the
activity. These external seminars allowed insurance and bonding companies in Mexico to have direct
contact with their regulator to discuss both operative and regulatory issues relevant to the industry. More
importantly however, the seminars fostered communication thus improving the transparency and
understanding of the actions taken by the CNSF.
The CONSAR organized 7 courses/visits as well as a number of externally hired consultancies which have
allowed the strengthening of the institution. Its performance can be judged by the success of the new private
sector workers pension schemes (AFORES) who are slowly becoming the prime institutional investors in
Mexico's capital markets.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In Mexico, oil revenues represent approximately 30 percent of the Federal Government's total income.
Because of this, Government expenditures have to be continously adjusted in response to the volatility in oil
prices. This was the case in CY's 1999 and 2000 when the severe decline in international oil prices forced
the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) to announce strict budget cuts which immediatly translated into a
reduction of fund allocations for the implementing agencies (in CY 2000, over US$4 billion were cut from
current and investment expenditures). Especially hurt was the CNBV which was the most active
implementing agency. Budget constraints had a direct negative effect on the implementation of the FTAL.
Activities financed by the Loan declined in 1998, dwindled in 1999 and, disappeared in 2000. This offsett
the reasonable pace of activities that was held during 1995-97.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After some start up delays, project implementation progressed satisfactorily. It was only during FY 96 that
the FTAL became active (with some retroactive financing allowed for activities realized in 1995), with the
- 7 -



executing agencies, particularly the CNBV and CONSAR, being able to divert some attention from the
banking crisis and from the processing of the new Social Security Law, respectively, into the programs
supported by the Loan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See 5.2 above
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Out of the total approved amount US$37.4 million, only US$28.7 million were used with a cancelled
amount of US$8.75 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
For the implementing agencies:
Given the high degree of success acheived by the Government of Mexico in implementing and sustaining
the program of structural reforms in the financial sector, project sustainability is strong. With strong
support of the incoming administration, which took office in December 1st 2000, the reforms and
institutional development of the Commissions financed by the Loan will consolidate themselves and will
provide a solid basis for the future operations of the regulatory and supervisory institutions involved.
Sustainability of the project is supported by the large number of activities undertaken and is not
compromised by completion since the financing provided by the World Bank represents only a very small
portion of the overall budget of each entity.
For Mexico 's Financial Sector Reform Process and Financial Sector Stability:
(a) Macroeconomic Instability: Is prominent among the obstacles for stable and sound financial systems
and reform. High inflation and excessive government deficits put enormous pressure on the financial sector
and impede reform. Mexico has made important progress against this odd. Since the critical year of 1995,
macroeconomic instability and inflation have been reduced. Annual GDP growth for the period 1996-2000
averaged over 5 percent with inflation declining from over 50 percent in 1995 to less than 10 percent in
2000.
Mexico's strong economic perfonnance in 2000 has exceeded both government targets and private sector
expectations. Economic growth for 2000 was 6.9 percent, considerably above the country's annual growth
trend of approximately 5 percent. Inflation continues its downward trend with a year-end rate of 8.9 percent
for 2000, consistent with the annual objective set by the monetary authorities (below 10 percent). The
balance of payments current account deficit is estimated at 3.1 percent of GDP, only slightly up from 2.9
percent in 1999 and within manageable proportions. The year-end fiscal deficit stood at 1.1 percent of
GDP just within the annual target of 1.0 percent of GDP.
The strong economic performance can be attributed to a combination of sound macroeconomic
management and a favorable extemal environment. Sound macroeconomic management, largely consisting
of (i) tight and independent monetary policy, (ii) a flexible foreign exchange regime and (iii) a generally
conservative fiscal stance, continues to provide the basis for a respectable rate of growth, single-digit
inflation and a viable extemal balance. The extraordinary favorable extemal developments, in particular
stronger than expected growth of the US economy and the sharp increase of intemational oil prices since
mid-1999, enhanced the economic performance of Mexico in 2000. The risks remain of Mexico's reaction
- 8 -



to the expected slowdown of the US economy during 2001 as well as to the permanent/transitory decline
and volatility of oil prices.
The banking industry as a whole, hard hit by the 1994-95 crisis, has also gone through a noticeable
improvement in terms of quantity and quality of capital, profitability and risk management practices.
Financial information for the banking industry by June 2000 showed signs of improvement. Past-due loans
decreased to MXP$57.7 billion from MXP$84.5 billion in 1999, reflecting a decline in the non-performing
loan index from 8.9 percent in 1999 to 6.4 percent in June 2000, the lowest level since the new accounting
principles were implemented (January 1997). However, some of these improvements were at the expense of
balance sheet writeoffs reflected in the capitalization index which, adjusted for market risk, declined to 14.3
percent by June 2000 from 16.2 percent in 1999. Operating profits increased substantially, and the
industry's coverage ratio (substandard loans over loan-loss provisions) rose to 110.8 percent.
(b) Support Programs Averting a Systemic Collapse of the Banking System: Similarly, since the crisis
year of 1995, the Mexican government has implemented a number of support programs that proved
instrumental in averting the collapse of the banking system. These programs included:
(i) A number of bank support programs, including liquidity support to provide banks with foreign
currency to pay their foreign debt; actions to recapitalize the banks in exchange for non-performing loans;
the intervention and sale of a number of weak domestic banks to foreign investors; and programs to
restructure, sell, or liquidate banks intervened because their owners could not provide additional capital to
meet the new regulations. These measures were implemented through the Bank Savings Protection Fund
(FOBAPROA)
(ii) Debtor support programs to help families and corporations service and repay their debts
(iii) Reform of Mexico's deficient accounting principles, banking regulations, and supervisory and
enforcement practices.
The support programs were effective in avoiding widespread bank failures and deposit runs on banks, while
maintaining the course of the tough stabilization program. However, they generated a substantial fiscal
cost, estimated at about 19.3 percent of GDP with only a small part of this total cost having been covered
by fiscal transfers between 1995 and 2000.
(c) Legal Reforms to Improve Incentives in the Banking Sector. New banking legislation approved in
December 1998 created a new deposit insurance agency, the Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings
(IPAB). This law provides a legal framework and a clear timetable to sell the mountain of bad assets
acquired by FOBAPROA and to improve incentives in the financial sector, and creates a mechanism for the
transparent resolution of undercapitalized and insolvent banks, allowing full participation of foreign
investors in existing Mexican banks.Measures taken include: (i) approval in December 1998 of the law
creating the Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB). The IPAB Law established a gradual
phase-out of the universal deposit insurance scheme, replacing it with one with limited coverage, to be
handled by IPAB; and (ii) the adoption of a final debtor relief program ("Punto Final").
(d) Regulatory Reforms to Improve Banks' Capitalization and Soundness. In September 1999, the
regulatory authorities announced a series of regulatory reforms to change the definition of regulatory
capital and require the disclosure of its composition; improve the definition of risk weighted assets;
establish classification and new provisioning rules based on repayment capacity; improve accounting
practices and standards; and improve disclosure.
(e) Bank Capitalization and Resolution Program. The IPAB Law gave IPAB the mandate to handle the
- 9-



restructuring and resolution of troubled banks. It has under its purview the banks that had been assisted by
the old bank restructuring fund (Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings - FOBAPROA).
(I) Sound Fundamentals in Creditor-Borrower Relationships: There must be incentives for all
participants in the financial sector to obey the rules , and have confidence that others will obey them too.
Well drafted laws on contracts must be enforced by an effective judicial system. In this respect, the
Mexican authorities have made major strides in the implementation of sound legal fundamentals with the
approval of the Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act on April 27, 2000; and of the Miscellany
of Secured Lending on April 30, 2000. Passage of these legal reforms will help the banking sector resume
the provision of real credit which has been contracting since the banking crisis of 1995. These reforms will
significantly broaden the access to bank credit to groups so far excluded. In addition, the new Bankruptcy
Law will facilitate the recovery of assets and the redeployment of corporate assets of failed firms. A
complementary reform to the other two major initiatives includes other reforms to the Commercial Code in
order to modemize Mexico's registries to convert to electronic form, improving the efficiency and safety for
pledging commercial assets.
Congress also passed new legislation on loan guarantees, with some amendments to the Commercial Code,
the General Law on Negotiable Instruments and Credit Transactions and the Credit Institutions Law. The
legislation introduces the new principles of collateral without the transfer of ownership and the guarantee
trust.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not Applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The FTAL was initially conceived as a US$23.6 million operation which was later supplemented by an
additional operation of US$ 13.8 million for a total amount of US$37.4 million. The supplement was
deemed essential as discassed in Section 3.2. While the government requested an extension of the Loan for
two years (with June 2000 as the extended closing date), most of the loan funds were disbursed by FY 98.
As discussed in Section 5.1, the extension of the loan did not materialize in significant additional activities
given the government budget constraints in 1999 and 2000 that translated into reduced expenditures for
those years.This resulted in a cancellation of US$ 8.75 million. There were no rejected withdrawal
applications in this loan.
Prior to the banking crisis, the Bank's dialogue with the regulators of Mexico's financial sector was limited.
It was the preparation of the original FTAL that initiated the beginning of a long and sometimes difficult
but respectful relationship with Mexico surrounding financial sector issues. The FTAL was the building
block that allowed the Bank and the Mexican authorities to re-take the dialogue to design and prepare
additional financial sector adjustment loans which culminated in: (i) the 1995 Financial Sector
Restructuring Loan for US$1,000 million; (ii) the 1996 Contractual Savings Development Program
(CSDP) for US$400 million; (iii) CSDP II in 1998 for US$400 million; (iv) the Bank Restructuring
Facility Loan (BRFL) for US$500 million in 1999 and (v) the BRFL II for US$500 million with expected
Board approval by late FY 2001 or early FY 2002.
Similarly, the quick preparation of the supplemental FTAL demonstrated the flexibility of the World Bank
to adjust to changing conditions to deliver a fast-track, well diagnosed and quality product. The Bank
responded in a timely fashion to the GOM's request for financial and technical support for a comprehensive
- 10-



reform and the strengthening of its basic financial infrastructure.
7.2 Supervision:
The project was supervised in the traditional way until the fall of 1996 when FPSI assigned a sector leader
to the field. Since then, direct supervision was carried directly from the field with the responsibilities of task
management, procurement and financial management falling on the specialists located in the Country
Office. Decentralization of responsibilities away from Washington DC proved adequate since closer
contact with the implementing agencies allowed the Bank to provide considerable technical support, both in
the form of advice on relevant training needs and by providing views on terms of reference for consulting
work. In addition, direct supervision from the field allowed the buildup of a "more intense" relationship
with the clients who are just "across the street". Thus, the FTAL is a good example of some of the positive
effects of the recent decentralization efforts of the World Bank. This is further supported by the Overall
Quality of Supervision Assessment of the FTAL performed by QAG for FY00 which was rated
satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory, particularly in the non-lending services area where direct on-off site supervision allowed for
Bank's assistance in planning activities. This positive externality for the Mexican Government also
materialized at the project preparation stage (see Section 7.4 below).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The GOM, through the financial sector regulating agencies, participated actively in the preparation stage of
the loan. In particular, they made substantial efforts to determine "the best road to follow" in terms of
defining what the required training for executives and for the operating personnel should be, as well as how
to build a consensus among market participants to understand and support the needed legislation required
to be passed. The World Bank collaborated extensively with the regulating agencies by transferring the
know-how of best international best practices which served as benchmarks especially for legislation
implementation. The regulating agencies were very responsive to the World Bank's advice which made the
working environment for both institutions a satisfactory one.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Levels of activity among the four implementing units (UIDEP, CONSAR, CNSF and CNBV) varied
significantly. In particular, the activity of the UIDEP of the SHCP was practically insignificant as it hired a
single consulting activity whose cost absorbed only one percent of the total disbursed amount of the loan
(US$293,000). However, this was offset by the dynamic activity of the CNBV which utilized 78 percent
(US$22.4 million) of the disbursed amount. The CONSAR was the second most active player absorbing 19
percent (US$5.5 million) while the CNSF only used US$476,000, representing slightly less than 2 percent
of the total disbursed amount.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
This project highlights the following lessons: (i) A high degree of Government commitment is essential for
successful implementation; (ii) Well-defined Project objectives overall and within sub-components must
- 11 -



accurately assess the country's needs and absorptive capacity to increase the possibility of a successful
operation, (iii) Regular monitoring of Project performance indicators and supervision executed directly
from the field offer substantive, issue-oriented support; (iv) Supervision undertaken directly form the field
allows closer contact with clients and allows relationships to build under more solid foundations.
Financial sector reform cannot be reached overnight. Time is needed to improve the laws on collateral and
bankruptcy, the accounting system, the regulatory and supervisory framework and the capital markets and
pension systems. Improvement in the enforcement of the laws and regulations take even longer and need
time for consolidation. The conclusion of the 1998 OED report Financial Sector Reform (#17454) clearly
states the challenges ahead: "a well-functioning financial sector is an ongoing process, not an event. Such a
system requires a long-term view". The inescapable lesson is that reform of financial sectors will require a
long-term commitment by the Bank and its clients, and the Bank's key role and comparative advantage is to
stay as a policy advisor for the long terrn.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Literally translating from the CNBV's project completion report: "It is important to mention the importance
it had for the CNBV to count with the technical as well as financial support of the World Bank. At the
same time, we must highlight the positive achievement of the objectives reached with this Technical
Assistance Program. Improved supervision and bank inspection methodologies, improved bank analysis
techniques, updated computer platforms and the strengthening of its human capital through local and
foreign training activities, have all contributed to the CNBVs modernization process".
Literally translating the comments from the Bank's financial agent (NAFIN) delivered to the Bank after
their positive review of this ICR: " From the point of view of NAFIN, in its role of financial agent, project
execution by the CNBV, CNSF, CONSAR and the UIDEP of the SHCP, adequately achieved the planned
objectives and established the fundamentals for a stronger and safer financial system in Mexico. This,
through the establishment of more adequate regulatory and supervisory methods combined with stronger
incentives to the financial market participants. At the same time, the FTAL supported the development of
the pension system and the strengthening in the evaluation of government spending and budgetary
techniques.
It is worth mentioning that the activities realized by the CNBV and the CONSAR were the ones that had
the highest financial impact on the project (US$22.4 million and US$5.5 million respectively), representing
97 percent of the total disbursed amount of US$28.6 million.
This Loan demonstrated the willingness of the World Bank to provide financial and technical support to the
GOM in its continued efforts to strengthen Mexico's financial system, particularly after the financial crisis
that initiated at the end of 1994.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No cofinanciers
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No other partners
10. Additional Information
Relationship with other Bank Operations. Prior to the actions taken by the authorities in
December, 1994 which precipitated the collapse of the Mexican peso (i.e.; widening of the
- 12 -



foreign exchange band) and the loss of confidence in the country by foreign investors, the Bank
was aware of the serious legal and regulatory shortcomings and institutional weaknesses under
which the Mexican banks were operating. Responding to the request of the authorities in 1994 the
Bank prepared the FTAL as a precursor of the adjustment operation (FSRL) approved by the
Board in mid-1995.
While both operations were seen as complimentary, the FSRL fell well short of the ambitious
stated objectives of "restoring the solvency and soundness of Mexico 's banking system,
restructure banks and improve confidence in thefinancial system" and "initiate reforms in
development bank lending, accounting practices and regulation offinancial groups, and the
deposit insurance system", among others. The over-ambitious objectives set for the FSRL
underestimated the depth of the crisis and the complexity and broad scope of the measures
required to restore the health of the system, as well as the humongous fiscal cost of the crisis for
the government (i.e.; estimated at 20 percent of Mexico's GDP). For the above reasons the FSRL
was overall rated as unsatisfactory (see ICR: Mexico- Financial Sector Restructuring Loan,
Report No. 18012, May 26, 1998).
A second lending operation less closely associated to the FTAL was the first Contractual Savings
Development Program (CSDP-I) approved by the Board in December, 1997. The CSDP-I
targeted one of the main vulnerabilities of the Mexican economy resulting from the shallow pool
of domestic savings and its "shortermism". The new pension system regulator CONSAR created
by additional legal reforms introduced in May, 1996 was one of the recipients of the FTAL, as
discussed above. The FTAL contributed significantly to the strengthening of the new supervisory
agency and the very successful implementation of the CSDP-I loan (see ICR: Mexico-
Contractual Savings Development Program, Report No. 17771, May 5, 1998).
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatri7x                      P .7t;d0 in last PSR                 Actul/Latest Estimate
1. CNBV - Evaluation and Improvement of                                        1. Eighteen acfivities with studies on
Regulatory and Supervisory Policies and                                        electronic supervision, creditor-borrower
inspection processes.                                                         relationships,bankruptcy and loan
classification, re-engineering of policies and
procedures.
2. CNBV - Methodologies for improved                                           2. Three consultants prepared separate
inspection and supervision.                                                    diagnostic studies on the CNBV's intemal
structure and operating processes and
improvement in the knowledge of the
financial situation of supervised banks.
3. CNBV - Increased capacity of financial                                      3. Eight consultants prepared separate
analysis                                                                      studies on liquidity monitOrtng, valuabon,
probability models for non-payment,
corporate govemance, risk management and
financial structure.
4. CNBV - Modemized information systems                                        4. Nine sub-projects executed including the
and budgetng.                                                                  purchase of office technology, a diagnostic of
CNBVs finance, administrative and legal
departments.
5. CNBV - Improve supervision of                                               5. Four consultants prepared studies on
development banks.                                                             development bank credit risk limits, current
macro-micro situation, interest rate policies
and a specific diagnosis of BANJERCITO.
6. CNBV - Human resources development                                          6. Courses offered in the financial and
information technology areas. 165 activities
performed with 138 beneficiaries. System of
rewards developed to encourage civil service.
7. CNBV - Transparency of informabon for                                       7. Consulting firm prepared study on
market investors.                                                              quantity/quality of information for market
investors.
8. CNBV - Self-regulating organizabons                                         8. Consultant prepared study on feasibility of
(SRO's).                                                                       SRO's in Mexico's financial industry.
9. CNBV - diagnostc studies of troubled                                        9. Detailed diagnostics by extemal
banks and selection of advisors for the their                                  consultants on the following banks: Banpais;
restructuring, liquidation and sale                                            Serfin; Inverlat; Confia; Banorte; Bancentro;
Banamex; Atlantico; Promex and Bancomer.
Consultants also prepared studies on the
methodologies to sell intervened institutions.
10. CNBV - Facilitate voluntary restructuring                                  10. The IMF providing assistance on feasible
of troubled loans.                                                             restructuring processes.
11. CNBV . Asset securitization and secured                                    11. Consultant prepared detailed study on
transactions (feasibility and obstacles).                                      likelihood and issues to be addressed for
successful implementation.
12. CONSAR - Develop legal/regulatory and                                      12. During 1996-2000 CONSAR issued over
supervisory capabilities to manage SAR                                         100 circulars and dispositions. Assets under
accounts                                                                       management of AFORES projected at
US165 billion by 2015. CONSAR regarded
as one of the most efficient regulators of
private pension systems in Latin America.
13. CNSF - Improvement in regulatory and                                       13. During 1995-2000 CNSF issued over
supervisory capabilities.                                                      300 circulars. Insurance and Bonding house
industry growing faster than GDP since
1996. Significant foreign investment by major
international insurance firms.
- 14 -



14. UIDEP - Improvement of evaluation of                                      14. Poor project implementaton performance
public investment projehs and budgeting                                       given that UIDEP's ativities and psotties
procedures.                                                                   changede tothe privatization of state owned
property.
Output Indicators:
tndicator/Matvix                    Projected in last PSRi                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. November 1994: Extemal auditors now                                         1. Evaluation by a third party eliminates
required for banking Institutions.                                            incentives for mis-reporting.
2. March 1995: New reserve requirements.                                       2. Improved provisioning and further hedge
against unforeseen losses.
3. July 1996: New capital requirements.                                       3. Moving in line with intematonal standards.
4. January 1997: New accounting prindiples                                     4. Moving in line with international standards
adopted.
5. February 1998: Revised credit allocaton                                     5. Updated credit risk methodologies.
procedures.
6. September 1998: Additional provisioning.                                    6. Further cushioning against unforeseen
losses.
7. December 1998: Elimination of foreign                                       7. No restrictions on foreign bank entry.
participation in Mexico's largest banks.
8. December 1998: Creation of the Bank                                         8. Legal framework established for the
Savings Protection Institute (IPAB).                                          restructuring/sale/liquidation of troubled
banks.
9. January 1999: Comprehensive and                                             9. Risk management committee's
centralized risk management practices.                                         established reporting directly to the Board of
Directors.
10. June 1999. Corporate govemance rules.                                      10. Initially voluntary and later made
mandatory in September 2000
11. September 1999. New capitalization                                         11. Tier I and Tier 11 capital re-defined closer
rules,                                                                         in line with best international practices.
12. October 1999 . Update of general                                          12. Moving even closer to international
accounting principles.                                                         standards..
13. October 1999. Consumer loan                                                13. More transparent loan classification.
classification re-defined.                                                    Takes into account both micro and macro
risks.
14. January 2000. Mortgage loan                                                14. More transparent classification. Takes
classification re-defined.                                                     into account micro and macro risks.
15. April 2000. Secured lending and                                            15. Borrower/creditor incentives addressed
Bankruptcy laws approved by Congress.                                         to improve repossessing of pledged assets
end encourage payment of delinquent loans.
16. May 2000. Modemization of Public                                           16. Critical for the Secured Lending and
Registries.                                                                    Bankruptcy Laws to effectively operate.
17. September 2000. Commercial loan                                            17. More transparent loan classification.
re-classification redefined.                                                  Takes into account both micro and macro
risks.
End of project
Note: The output indicators shown above represent some of the most important structural changes
implemented by the CNBV during the period 1995-2000. These changes are applicable to the banking
industry which represents more than 80 percent of financial assets in Mexico. In addition, during the period
1995-2000, the CNBV also issued over 180 Circulars related to the capital markets activity.
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  VAptualLatest   Percentaro
Estimatf      EiVtimte      A00riat
Project Cost By Cmnent                U     m$ milion    US$ million   _...___.:_...
1. National Banking and Securities Commission CNBV   19.44          26.10             135
2. National Insurance and Bonding Commission CNSF     1.86            0.50             30
3. National Retirement Savings Commsion CONSAR        1.93            6.00            311
4. Consultants to Support Project Procurement Activities  0.44        0.00              0
5. Public Investment Evaluation and Budgeting Unit    7.69            0.30           0.04
(UIDEP)
6. Cost of new activities envisaged in supplemental FTAL  23.05       0.00              0
to be distributed between CNBV and CONSAR.
7. Less total allocation of released funds           -5.37            0.00              0
Note: Actual/Latest Estimate of item 6 is distributed
between items I and 3.
Total Baseline Cost                                  49.04          32.90
Total Project Costs             49.04           32.90
Total Financing Required              49.04          32.90
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ m.llion equival nt)
Expenditure Category Y               Proureen Mh oco
ICB     f i   Other      N.t.F.      Ttal Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(3.17)       (2.56)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.73)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (22.92)       (0.00)       (22.92)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
_(3.17)       (2.56)       (22.92)       (0.00)       (28.65)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
- 16-



21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate             ActuallLatest Estimate    |
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
T'otal Costs              37.40      11.67                 28.65      4.25                76.6   36.4
Note: Most of Mexico's
counterpart funds were
used to finance the 15 %
VAT on the purchase of
goods and services.
- 17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performanco Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   j Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
1994                       12                                       S               S
Appraisal/Negotiation
1995                       8                                        S               S
Supervision
1995                        7                                       S               S
1996                       13                                       S               S
1997                        4                                       S               S
1998                        6                                       S               S
1999                        2                                       S               S
2000                        1                                       S               S
ICR
2000                        1                                       S               S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           _US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               54.4                       120.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    62.1                       103.9
Supervision                              85.3                       201.7
ICR                                Included in                 Included in
Supervision                 Supervision
Total                                   201.8                       426.1
- 19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
L Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
L Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Financial                              O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
3 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
E Lending                                             OHS*S Ou OHU
II Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
LI Overall                                            OHS * S   O  U  O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. MOP ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$23.6 MILLION TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. DECEMBER 22, 1994. REPORT NO. P-645 1-ME.
2. MOP ON A PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL LOAN IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
US$13.8 MILLION TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. MAY 25, 1995. REPORT NO.
P-6629-ME.
3. MOP ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 1,000 MILLION TO
BANOBRAS. JUNE 1995. REPORT NO.
4. REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT ... ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF
US$400 MILLION TO BANOBRAS. NOVEMBER 13, 1996. REPORT NO. P-7018-ME
5. REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT.. ON A PROPOSED SECOND
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDPII) ADJUSTMENT LOAN OF US$
400 MILLION TO BANOBRAS, S.N.C. MAY 13, 1998. REPORT NO. P-7239-ME
6. ICR - MEXICO - CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDP). LOAN NO.
4123-ME. MAY 5, 1998. REPORT NO. 17771.
7. ICR - MEXICO - FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN. LOAN NO. 3911-ME. MAY
26, 1998
8. ICR - MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDP II).
LOAN NO. 4343 - ME. DECEMBER 22, 1999. REPORT NO. 19676.
9. PROJECT PSR'S 1997, 1998, 1999.
10. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES CORRESPONDANCE WITH THE
MEXICO-COLOMBIA-VENEZUELA CMU.
11. INFORMATION SUBMITTED BY IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES OF ACTIVITIES FINANCED
WITH THE PROCEEDS OF THIS LOAN.
- 22 -



