LOAN NUMBER 3838-ME
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated (V\radi C    ,1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3838-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Y\ 0- "CAA                        , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a new
subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and it the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria" or "CNB" means the Guarantor's National
Banking Commission;
(b) "Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas" or "CNSF" means the Guarantor's
National Insurance and Bonding Commission;
(c) "Comisi6n Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro" or "CONSAR"
means the Guarantor's National Commission of the Retirement Savings System;
(d) "Comisi6n Nacional de Valores" or "CNV" means the Guarantor's National
Securities Commission;
(e) "Commissions" means the Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria the Comisi6n Nacional
de Valores, the Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros v Fianzas and the Comisi6n Nacional del
Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro;
(f) "SAR" means the Guarantor's retirement savings system ("Sistema de Ahorro
para el Retiro");
(g) "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit,
("Secretaria de Hacienda Y Cr6dito Pfiblico");
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this
Agreement; and
(i)  "Workplan" means the workplan referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-three million six hundred thousand
dollars ($23,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-3-
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the Bank
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of such Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this Agreement
is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably determined
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the
Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after


﻿-4-
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as provided
in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of a
calendar year.
(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to the
Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agrelement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with the
Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the
Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the
transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required
to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any
provision of such contractual arrangements.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements
referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by, or shall caused to
be carried out by, the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the reviews referred to in Section
3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i)  have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
procedures consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)  furnish to tie Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special
Account; and
(iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning, said records and
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Eank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the
Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the
Guarantor's obligations under Section 4.01(c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01(a) of this Agreement have been executed.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date  I0U Y1 e-         , 1995 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01
of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Direcci6n Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre IV, Piso 8
01020 M6xico, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:                  Telex:
NAFIN                        NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City                  Mexico City


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Mexico, D.F., United Mexican States, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By              CLk"A    -T        2U 1-k/
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By             i b   torize Rep0 reeave
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Goods                          4,600,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)   Consultants'         -        19,000,000         100%
services and
training
TOTAL                         23,600,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000, may be made
in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 1, 1994.


﻿- 10 -
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not
exceeding $350,000 equivalent, and for expenditures for consulting firms not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants and training services not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the safety and soundness of the
financial system through improved prudential regulation and supervision, and through
greater incentives for self-policing by market participants; (b) to support the development
of the pension system; and (c) to improve public investment evaluation and budgeting.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision
Provision of coordinated technical assistance through SHCP with respect to:
1.     Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria
Analysis and improvement of: authorization policies and procedures; regulatory
and supervision policies; regulatory reporting; regulatory accounting principles;
supervision processes (both in . situ and extra situ); procedures for consolidation of
regulatory reports and consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates; modernization
of the information systems; and institutionalization of human resource development.
2.     Comisi6n Nacional de Valores
Analysis and improvement of: the regulatory and supervisory policy framework
of the organized securities markets; self-regulation, disclosure of financial information by
securities issuers, mutual funds and brokerage firms; the legal, regulatory and supervision
policy framework for new financial instruments such as, for example, derivatives and
asset-backed securities; and regulatory and reporting requirements for brokerage firms
consistent with those adopted in the other Commissions.
3.     Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas
Analysis and improvement of: supervision processes; regulatory and supervisory
policies applicable to insurance companies, insurance brokers, adjusters and reinsurance
companies; CNSF's capacity to evaluate actuarial audits; certification procedures for
actuaries; and regulatory reporting standards and accounting principles consistent with
those adopted in the other Commissions.


﻿- 12 -
4.     Comisi6n Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro
Provision of technical assistance to permit CONSAR to carry out its primary
functions, including: the development of CONSAR's internal communications system; the
development of CONSAR's national information network; the procurement and use of
computer and communications hardware and software for these purposes; and execution
of a study by CONSAR, jointly with CNSF, of the annuities market and its implications
for its further development as the SAR matures, with emphasis on international
experience.
Part B: Public Investment Evaluation and Budgeting
Provision of technical assistance to SHCP's unit responsible for public investment
evaluation and budgeting with respect to: inter-institutional coordination; establishment
of evaluation standards, dissemination of these standards and training in project
evaluation; evaluation of sector- and region-specific public investment projects;
establishment of a national inventory of public investment projects and a system for
ranking and prioritization within and across economic sectors; multi-annual budgeting; and
ex-post monitoring and evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 2000
through  October 1, 2009         1,180,000
And on April 1, 2010                    1,180,000
*      The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.20
before maturity
More than three years but   -                    0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$4,600,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 16 -
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or


﻿- 17 -
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


