Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Badk
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repet NS. P-2296-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 3, 1978
Thisdomeatbe £ ruttdW dIutlbm ud my be md by repie   mly in te pd.mane ofd
their ecllus dties Its cedntemis ma ntberwbe be dbeludi vithtt Wol Book anherbetle. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -    zaire (z)
Z 1                =    1 SDR
z 1                s    US$1.153
US$1               *    Z 0.867*1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
g6ttic System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF                                ftfrican Development Fund
BADEA                              Banque Arabe pour le Developpement
Economique en Afrique
Busira (Busira-Lomami)       =    Entreprises Agricoles et Indus-
ti'ielle2g,de la Busira au Lomami
CCCE                               Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique
CCP                          =    Compagnie de Commerce et de
Plantations
CELZA                        -    Cultures et Elevages au Zaire
ENTRIAC                      -    Entreprises Industrielles,
Agricoles et Commerciales
ONATRA                             Office National des Transports
PLZ                          =    Plantations Lever au Zaire
SOFIDE                       -    Societe Financiere de Developpement
*/   This is the exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report.  The current
exchange rate is US$1   Z 0.842.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Beneficiaries:       -  Plantations Lever au Zaire (PLZ)
- Compagnie de Commerce et de Plantations (CCP)
- Entreprises Agricoles et Industrielles de la
Busira au Lomami (BUSIRA)
- Department of Agriculture
Amount:              US$9.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Co-Lenders:          ADF, BADEA, and CCCE
Relending Terms:    The relending terms for IDA, ADF, BADEA and CCCE funds
would be identical, with a repayment period of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 10
percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The Project seeks to reverse the trend of rapidly declin-
ing production of palm oil and to forestall the need for
Zaire to import this commodity in the near future. The
Project provides for the planting of 12,215 ha. of oil
palm, renewing the equipment of three oil mills, procuring
earth moving equipment, trucks, tractors, staff vehicles;
constructing or repairing staff and workers housing,
schools, clinics; and technical assistance and training.
The Project also provides for feasibility studies and
pilot programs for the development of smallholders
cultivation to raise the standard of living and increase
the agricultural production of the rural population in
the Project areas. The major risk facing the Project is
the shortage of plantation workers due principally to
the inadequate level of incomes they secure from present
levels of wages. Their provision with supplementary
income earning opportunities from small scale cultivation,
the increase in wages, the improvement of social services
and housing, and the mechanization of land clearing.
operations in some of the Project areas are expected to
reduce this risk to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinzation.



- ii1 -
Estimated Cost:                                                             Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange
US$ million equivalent             %
Planting Inputs                           4.8       3.3       8.1            41
Oil mills, Machinery, Vehicles            1.5       8.6      10.0            86
Buildings                                 3.3       1.8       5.1            35
Staff                                     1.9       0.8       2.7            30
Training and Technical Assistance         1.2       2.7       4.0            69
Smallholders Cultivation                  1.2       1.3       2.5            50
Sub-total                             13.9      18.5      32.4           57
Contingencies:
Physical                               1.2       1.5       2.7           55
Price                                  9.4       2.9      12.3           23
Total Project Cost                    24.5      22.9      47.4           48
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
in US$ million equivalent
IDA                                                   9.0
ADF                                                   6.1
CCCE                                                  4.2
BADEA                                                 4.4
PLZ                                     18.5
Busira                                   0.8
CCP                                      1.7
Government                               2.0          0.7 */
Total                                   23.0         24.4         47.4
Estimated
Disbursements
…-------------US$ Million -------------
Bank FY                1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual disbursements  0.9    1.2    1.9    2.0    2.0    1.0
Cumulative dis-
bursements          0.9    2.1    4        6.0    8.0    9.0
Rate of Return        16 percent
Appraisal Report:  No. 1592-ZR dated March 29, 1978
*/   Part of a US commodity import loan to Government.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR AN
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$9.0 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance the planting of 12,215 ha of oil
palm, carrying out a feasibility study and a pilot program for the development
of smallholder cultivation and providing technical assistance for the training
of managers, technicians and researchers in the oil palm sector. The Project
would be cofinanced by a credit from ADF for the equivalent of $6.1 million on
terms similar to those of IDA; by a loan from BADEA for the equivalent of $4.4
million at 2 percent interest per annum, repayable over 25 years including a
five-year grace period; and by a loan from CCCE for the equivalent of $4.2
million, for 12 years, including 4 years of grace and an interest rate of 6
percent. US assistance is provided under a commodity import loan of $16.6
million to Government for an approved list of commodities of which items
costing about $0.7 million will be purchased for use on plantations included
in this project; the US credit carries a term of 50 years at 3 percent includ-
ing 10 years at 2 percent. Except for the funds for the technical assistance
and smallholders cultivation components, IDA, ADF and BADEA loans would be
onlent by the Government, and CCCE funds would be onlent by SOFIDE, to the
Companies (PLZ, Busira, CCP), for fifteen years, with four years of grace at
an interest rate of 10 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Zaire in April-May 1974 and its
report, entitled "Economy of Zaire" (No. 821-ZR), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 8, 1975. An updating economic mission was
made in June 1976, and its report (No. 1407-ZR) was distributed on April 13,
1977. Another updating mission visited Zaire in February 1978, its report
is under preparation but its preliminary findings are incorporated in the
following pages. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Economic Potential
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita was
estimated at about US$140 in 1976, one of the lowest on the continent.
In 1975, approximately one-fourth of its population of nearly 25 million
lived in urban areas, and the population density in rural areas was less
than 10 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of
8 percent per annum, or about three times faster than the growth of popula-
tion. Although agriculture accounts for 16 percent of GDP, it provides
employment and income for more than three quarters of the population. The
mining and processing industry accounts for 20 percent of GDP; it is the
largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of the
country's merchandise exports.



-2-
4.        Zaire is rich in land, forestry, mineral and energy resources,
particularly hydropower resources, nearly all of which are grossly under-
exploited. Even in copper, its share of world "identified resources"
(25 percent by some estimates) exceeds its share of world production and
exports (7 percent and 10 percent, respectively) by a wide margin. The
key constraints to the economic development of Zaire are: (a) shortage
of trained and experienced managerial and technical manpower, coupled with
a serious weakness of development institutions; (b) poor social conditions,
particularly with respect to nutrition and education; (c) semi-landlocked
location, with a coast limited to 30 km on the Atlantic Ocean; (d) in-
adequate transport network, which severely hampers marketing and communica-
tion; (e) a relatively neglected agricultural sector; (f) heavy dependence
on one export, copper, which is subject to wide fluctuations; and (g) inade-
quate savings. These constraints reinforce one another: for example, the
inadequacy of transport coupled with inadequately fixed farm level prices
dampen the farmers' incentive to produce a surplus for the market; and the
adverse impact of the gyrations in copper prices tends to be accentuated by
the institutional constraints to devise and implement appropriate policy
responses.
5.        Although the country gained independence in 1960, it was ill-
prepared for the change, technically and institutionally. The first 6-7
years were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the
economy. Political order and stability were not established until 1967 and
only then could the Government begin the considerable task of reconstruction.
Although GDP attained the pre-independence level in 1967, structurally the
economy was worse off than at pre-independence, with value added in the
productive sectors 30 percent below that of 1959, cash crop agriculture down
by 40 percent, agricultural exports down by 50 percent, and prices 6-7 times
higher than their 1959 level. The domestic product grew by about 7 percent
in real terms annually from 1967 to 1974 -- the year which marks the begin-
ning of Zaire's current difficulties. There were, however, significant
variations during this period in the growth rate of the economy, the financ-
ing of investments, and the distribution of its benefits.
6.        From 1967 to 1970, GDP grew by 10 percent in real terms per annum.
The rate of investment was rather high, as were government savings; deficit
financing amounted to only two percent of government expenditures; the extern-
al current account registered a surplus averaging 11 percent of imports of
goods and nonfactor services; the debt service ratio was low; and real wages
were on the rise. These favorable developments were due to the successful
implementation of the economic stabilization measures introduced in July 1967,
which included a major devaluation and fiscal reforms, and also to a sub-
stantial increase in both the volume and unit value of copper exports. All
sectors, except agriculture, registered significant increases in output
during this period.



-3-
7.        GDP growth decelerated to about 5 percent in the period 1970 to
1973. The leading sectors were mining, manufacturing and government
services; agricultural production expanded by only 2.4 percent per annum --
slower than the rate of population growth. The investment rate increased to
33 percent of GDP but this was not matched by an increase in domestic savings,
and consequently a resource gap developed. Indeed, the contribution of
government savings to financing government capital expenditures declined
from two-thirds to one-fourth, and the ratio of government revenue to GDP
contracted from about 38 percent to 27 percent. Nearly all government depart-
ments registered substantial expenditure overruns, and deficit financing
rose to 8 percent of government expenditures. The situation was aggravated
by the trough in copper prices in 1971/72 which put new strains on the coun-
try's resources.
8.        The 1970-73 period saw the beginning of a policy of reliance on
external borrowing to finance investments which has been at the root of cur-
rent difficulties. In 1971-73, external borrowing for budgetary support
amounted to about 10 percent of government expenditures. At the same time,
credit expansion was such that the exchange rate increasingly favored the
expansion of import demand, while reducing the incentive to export. As a
result, the external current account recorded a large deficit which was
financed by_running down foreign exchange reserves and by medium- and long-
term external borrowing on less and less favorable terms. The debt/service
ratio jumped from 4.7 percent in 1970 to 12.7 percent in 1973.
9.        Nevertheless, Zaire entered 1974 in relatively favorable conditions.
Its credit standing abroad was good; the copper price was high and rising;
and the expansion of Gecamines, the enterprise producing most of the country's
copper, was proceeding forward. The Government saw in this setting an oppor-
tunity to press in a major way for economic development under the control
of its nationals. However, despite a growth of 6.1 percent in real terms
in GDP,_tie year marked the end of relatively stable growth and the beginning
of a severe financial crisis. Although government revenue increased substan-
tially in thE first half of the year with the increase in copper prices,
associated with the commodity boom, government expenditures rose even more
during the year -- current expenditures by nearly 60 percent, capital expendi-
tures by about 90 percent -- and resulted in a budget deficit of more than
US$200 million. While the national savings rate contracted, investment
remained high at around 32 percent of GDP, thanks to external borrowing.
Furthermore, investment was allocated without satisfactory evaluation of costs
and benefits or sufficient regard to economic and social priorities. The
relative ease with which many foreign lenders were ready to extend assistance
during this period contributed to this situation. In 1974 the country's
current account deficit totaled US$660 million, more than twice the level
of 1973; external debt increased by 47 percent, and foreign exchange reserves
declined by 40 percent in six months, following the downturn in copper prices.
Fueled partly by rampant international inflation, domestic prices rose by
nearly 30 percent.



- 4 -
10.       These adverse events of 1974 occurred at a time when production
and distribution were being severely disrupted by the decision to
"zairianize" the economy.  Although the decision was announced in November
1973, its effects were not felt until 1974. The decision proved costly,
especially in the agricultural sector. It affected not only production
and marketing, it also induced transfers of capital abroad and prompted
the Central Bank to lift its credit ceilings to meet the needs of zairianized
enterprises.
11.       The uninterrupted growth of the 1967-74 period was characterized by
serious structural imbalances. The bulk of investment was allocated to the
modern sectors (mining and manufacturing) and to services benefitting largely
the urban centers which expanded considerably during this period. Largely as
a result of underinvestment, agricultural production expanded at less than
half of the rate of GDP. Projects were generally capital intensive and con-
tributed relatively little to employment. The benefits of growth accrued
disproportionately to urban middle and high income groups. Real wages peaked
in 1971. The institutional framework which had started to be put in place in
the late 1960's began to deteriorate with poor budgetary and foreign exchange
management.
12.       The crisis started to be felt in 1975 when GDP fell by 4.6 percent.
The decline in output was especially marked in commercialized agriculture,
manufacturing, transport, and commerce. In addition, the Government's current
budget registered a deficit of Z 70 million, the first since 1965, owing, in
part, to the adverse impact of the cyclical downturn in copper prices. The
share of taxes on international trade and transactions in total government
revenues decreased from an average of 63 percent during 1970-74 to some
50 percent in 1975. Reflecting these developments as well as the overall
decline in economic activity, tax revenues declined from about 30 percent
of GDP during 1970-74 to 24 percent in 1975. The external accounts also
deteriorated in 1975. Despite a decrease in imports of about 36 percent in
real terms, the current account deficit showed little improvement owing largely
to a decline of 39 percent in the terms of trade. In order to finance the
large deficit, Zaire drew substantially upon its international reserves and
accumulated arrears on external payments relating to merchandise imports, debt
service and invisibles totaling about US$330 million. Pending a renegotiation
of Zaire's external indebtedness to both official creditors and private banks,
the authorities suspended most debt service payments, while creditors and
suppliers became increasingly reluctant to continue external credits to Zaire.
13.       In 1975, moreover, the war in Angola not only preoccupied the
Government, it also put pressure on public expenditures. The closure of
the Benguela railroad disrupted and increased the cost of transportation
of the country's major exports. Furthermore, early in the year the Govern-
ment announced the nationalization of enterprises in certain sectors in
order to end abuses by the new owners. Although there were exceptions,
the management and consequently the finances of enterprises deteriorated
further. As a result, in late 1975, the Government announced its intention



to partly de-nationalize; the decision has been under implementation and has
met with reasonable success although more remains to be done.
14.       Faced with mounting difficulties, in early 1976, the Government
adopted a one year stabilization program which, on March 22, 1976, was sup-
ported by a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. Under the stand-by arrange-
ment, the IMF approved an enlarged first credit tranche of US$47 million and
compensatory financing of US$65 million which, together with the drawing of
the 1975 oil facility (US$37.5 million), totaled about US$150 million. At
the same time, a 42 percent depreciation of the zaire in terms of SDR's
was effected in order to establish the profitability of the _^port sector
and increase budgetary revenue.
15.       The program adopted by the Zairian authorities in 1976 was designed
to reduce excess demand pressures and to permit a revival in economic activity
through a limit on wage increases, a considerable reduction in Government ex-
penditure in real terms, a limit on total credit expansion, the renegotiation
of the external public debt, and a commitment not to contract new foreign
loans in the maturity range of I to 10 years, except for the financing of
priority projects underway. Pending debt negotiations, the authorities were
also to set aside in a blocked account 10 percent of export receipts to meet
debt service payments. In addition, the program envisaged a reduction of ex-
ternal payment arrears by about US$73 million during 1976.
16.       The policies affecting wages, incomes, prices and bank credit to
enterprises, as well as the decision to set aside a portion of export receipts
for meeting debt service payments, were all broadly carried out. However,
their beneficial impact was considerably diluted by the fact that performance
departed substantially from the program targets in two major areas, namely,
the government budget and the allocation of foreign exchange. The overall
budget deficit, which was to be limited to Z 60 million, reached a record of
Z 313 million, equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP. Developments bearing on
the balance of payments also departed significantly from the program. As a
result, in 1976, the shortage of imported inputs became more critical; eco-
nomic activity continued to decline; unemployment increased; and inflation
accelerated to some 80 percent. The authorities felt obliged to introduce
new exchange restrictions and new external payments arrears of about $90
million accumulated, raising the outstanding arrears to $420 million at the
end of the year. According to preliminary estimates, GDP declined by about
3 percent in 1976.
17.       In early 1977, the Government adopted another financial program
designed to reduce significantly the domestic rate of inflation and to en-
sure at least a moderate recovery in economic activity, within the constraints
imposed by the foreign exchange resources likely to be available. In support
of this program, on April 25, 1977, the IMF approved a one-year stand-by
arrangement in the amount of US$52 million covering the second and a part of
the third enlarged credit tranches. On the same date, the IMF also agreed
to a purchase of the equivalent of US$33 million under the compensatory fi-
nancing facility. Given Zaire's very low level of foreign exchange reserves
and large short-term external commitments, the new program aimed at limiting



the overall balance of payments deficit -- including a planned reduction in
outstanding external balance of payments arrears -- to US$63 million in 1977.
18.       The main element of the Government's new program was a reduction
in the budget deficit from Z 313 million in 1976 to Z 175 million in 1977.
In order to achieve this target, new tax measures (e.g., on coffee and petro-
leum exports) were introduced and efforts to improve tax collection and
to control expenditures were announced.  On the expenditure side, a limit
of Z 834 million was set by the Executive Council on Treasury outlays, of
which Z 799 million was for current expenditures and Z 35 million for in-
vestment expenditures financed by the budget. With these measures, the
program aimed at reducing the level of total government expenditures by about
20 percent in real terms in 1977. The recent IMF review mission (November
1977) discussed certain policy adjustments for consideration by the Zairian
authorities; it also stressed the need for improvements in the quality of
data, and expressed the Fund's readiness to extend technical assistance to
Zaire.
19.       Partial information for the first nine months of 1977 suggests
that the stabilization program had minimal impact in curbing the rate of
inflation and in improving economic activity. The index of consumer prices
in Kinshasa (1969-100) increased from 461 in April 1976 to 937 in November
1977, or at an estimated annual rate of almost 60 percent. Despite a recov-
ery in mining production of 4.7 percent, a decline in real economic growth
took place for the third consecutive year.
20.       An evaluation of performance under the 1977 program remains to be
completed. It appears, however, that government expenditures were con-
siderably higher than planned and exceeded the IMF target by about Z 170
million.  Although government revenue matched the projected level as a result
of improved tax collection which more than offset the shortfall in import
duties, the overall budget deficit attained Z 310 million. The deficit was
almost entirely financed by the Central Bank and was largely responsible for a
44 percent increase in the money supply. Banking system credit to households
and enterprises expanded at a somewhat faster pace than envisaged in the
program, reflecting partly the unfavorable events in the coffee sector,
including speculation by exporters that the specific tax on coffee exports
would be revised, as in fact happened in September 1977.
21.       The overall balance of payments deficit in 1977 is estimated to
be nearly four times the level of US$63 million targeted under the IMF pro-
gram. In addition to copper prices, which averaged 59.4 #/lb as compared to
an expected price of 68 / on which the stabilization program was predicated,
a contributing factor was the difficulty in repatriating export earnings
especially from coffee, and the failure to obtain an expected $250 million
loan (see para. 24). According to the IMF, by the end of September, out-
standing external payment arrears, including commercial arrears, rose to
nearly US$700 million, or the equivalent of about 60 percent of annual export
receipts. Finally, with a further decline in real wages, the Government
found it increasingly difficult to maintain the wage freeze.



-7-
22.       A series of external debt consolidation and rescheduling agreements
have taken place since the development of arrears in 1975 but these have
not been commensurate with the serious financial situation and medium term
prospects of the country. In 1975, Zaire's external public debt, including
undisbursed was about US$2.7 billion -- five times the 1970 level -- and the
scheduled debt service payments amounted to US$232 million, representing a
debt service ratio of about 24 percent. An agreement was reached in Paris
on June 30, 1976 with the principal creditor governments on the rescheduling
of Zaire's debt service on commercial credits and loans with an original
maturity of over one year, owed to or guaranteed by these Governments.
The payments thus rescheduled (including debt service arrears as of June
30, 1976, and principal payments due until December 31, 1977) amounted to
US$112 million in 1976 and US$137.6 million in 1977, of which 85 percent were
to be repaid over ten years, including three years of grace. At a second
meeting, on July 7, 1977, the Paris Club agreed to provide additional relief
on similar terms for interest payments due during the first semester of 1977,
i.e., an amount of US$42 million. (The rescheduled amounts quoted here are
estimates by the Bank of Zaire and will be revised.) At a third meeting on
November 30, 1977, agreement was reached to reschedule along the lines of the
first agreement payments of interest for the second half of the same year.
The Club did not deal with 1978 payments and decided to meet again in April
1978. The date has not been scheduled yet.
23.       With respect to Zaire's obligations vis-a-vis syndicated non-guar-
anteed bank loans, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in London on
November 5, 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks. In accordance
with this Memorandum, Zaire has reportedly cleared interest payments in
arrears and currently falling due. It has also deposited a portion of the
corresponding principal payments in a special account. These funds were to
be released in favor of the creditor banks immediately upon Zaire's becoming
entitled to draw under a US$250 million medium-term loan that Citibank N.A.,
one of the members in the London meeting, undertook to syndicate on a "best
efforts basis." Total service owed to the banks by Zaire was estimated at
about US$295 million over the 1976-1978 period. The syndication of the loan
mentioned in the London Understanding has been completed though apparently
at about US$210 million and signature is expected to take place on April 17,
1978.
24.       At this stage, it is difficult to determine the amounts of total
debt service payments made in 1976 and 1977 and to estimate the effects of
rescheduling. It is, however, expected that a reliable and complete record
of outstanding debts and current service payments will be available soon.
Since its organization in January 1977, Zaire's Public Debt Management Office
(OGEDEP) has made serious progress in building a set of reliable external debt
statistics. Primarily by contacting directly creditor institutions, a status
of external debt (loans from governments, international organizations, and
banks) as of December 1977 has already been established. OGEDEP's achieve-
ments, so far, are the product of its competent management; however, it has
not yet begun to exercise its policy function, due to the necessity of record-
ing the debt first.



- 8 -
25.       Zaire's difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by e-xogenous factors. Zaire was not alone in underestimating
the weakness of copper prices and its duration. Short- and medium-term
copper price forecasts in the last few years have proved to be consistently
too high. Adjusting to the ensuing resource constraints and other difficul-
ties was seriously hampered by the lack of an institutional foundation for
decision making within the framework of a development plan. Recently, how-
ever, the Government has completed an Agricultural Recovery Program, a com-
prehensive document which was submitted to a special working group on agri-
culture set up within the Consultative Group and which met in mid-March.
The Program covers the next three years and was prepared in consultation
with the Bank. In addition, the Planning Office, which was elevated to a
Ministry in February 1977, has been reorganized along functional lines and has
already undertaken a number of useful pre-planning tasks such as a preliminary
survey of industry, semi-annual surveys of the economy, and efforts to
strengthen the National Institute of Statistics.
26.       With regard to economic performance, the most urgent issues facing
the country are: (i) the need to stabilize its economy in cooperation with
the IMF; (ii) the need to restore its creditworthiness by meeting its debt
service obligations; and (iii) the need to reverse the decline in production,
to raise productivity, and to start new productive investments. The resource
constraints remain quite severe. Scheduled external payments on long-term
public debt are expected to reach US$450 million in 1978, implying a debt
service ratio of about 30 percent. If no further rescheduling were to take
place, and assuming that domestic demand in real terms were to halt the decline
of the last three years, gross capital requirements would amount to about
US$800 million. Although export earnings are expected to increase measurably
with the expected growth of copper production and the eventual recovery of
copper prices, the future burden of external debt and the need for higher
imports will continue to call for a considerable amount of foreign assistance,
including debt rescheduling.
27.        In order to set the stage for medium- and long-term development
a whole set of measures, covering particularly foreign exchange management
and public finance, will have to be taken, preferably in the form of an
integrated recovery program; programs and policies will have to be aimed
at a better utilization of existing capacity and agricultural resources;
and an investment program will have to be prepared focusing on high-priority
productive projects. More extensive and persistent efforts will be needed
before the imbalances in the economy can be corrected and the impact of
development policies felt in the lives of most Zairians.
28.        Such measures have been under serious consideration by the Govern-
ment as part of the on-going effort to draw up an economic recovery program
known as the Plan Mobutu. The Plan was announced by the President in his
speech to the Party Congress on November 25, 1977 in which he spoke with
greater candor and force than ever before of the seriousness of the economy's



- 9 -
predicament. In the same speech, the President condemned corruption, mis-
management and over-centralization as being at the root of Zaire's economic
difficulties; he reaffirmed and broadened certain decisions announced earlier
such as the reform of the customs service; he specifically promised the
repatriation Uf coffee export proceeds; and he announced measures to
strengthen the Central Bank.
29.       It is expected that the Plan Mobutu, which is not yet available,
would comprise a three-year (1978-80) recovery program focusing on agriculture
and transportation and encompassing a major effort to restore the productive
capacity of the economy and, at the same time, to address the urgent task of
diversification. The Government has been collaborating closely with Belgium
in this endeavor and intends to seek concerted external assistance for its
implementation. Although much remains to be done by the Government itself
to both implement policies and to generate confidence that it can and will
do so, the useful work of OGEDEP to date, the preparation of an Agricultural
Recovery Program, and improved tax collection in 1977 can be considered posi-
tive first steps. Furthermore, the Government has expressed its intention to
rely on external assistance in key areas of management.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
30.       From 1969 through 1977, Zaire received 15 IDA credits totaling
US$192.5 million for transport, development finance company operations,
water supply, agriculture and education projects. The Bank has also ex-
tended grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of
US$100 million for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (LAFB),
and which provided for special repayment arrangements linked to the proj-
ect's export earnings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 participation in
the Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), the development finance
company, is currently appraising an offshore oil production project in Zaire.
31.       To date, Bank Group assistance to Zaire has been limited compared
to the needs of the country. An important restricting factor was the inade-
quate project preparation and implementation capability of the Government,
but this has been largely overcome. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1978, and
notes on the status of ongoing projects. As of December 31, 1976 the Bank
Group's share of Zaire's disbursed debt outstanding was about 2.7 percent
and the share of current debt service during 1976, 1.0 percent. By 1980
they are expected to rise to respectively, 7.1 percent and 9.3 percent.
32.       Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a long time,
have accelerated and amounted to US$87.1 million as of January 31, 1978.



- 10 -
Certain entities which have benefitted from IDA credits and Bank loans, the
development finance company (SOFIDE), the National Water Authority (REGIDESO)
and GECAMINES, are executing projects in a satisfactory manner. For other
projects, implementation has been poor, due primarily to the country's in-
adequate supply of trained manpower and management capacity but progress is
being made. For example, execution of the First Education Project (1972)
was delayed because of administrative weakness, and faulty selection and
coordination of foreign consultants. Following a reduction in the scope of
the project, approved by the Executive Directors (see Memorandum of the
President to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1976), implementa-
tion of this project is now improving. In the case of the Second Highway
project, civil works progressed much slower than anticipated due to the
failure or weakening of several contractors following the "radicalization"
and "zairianization" measures of 1973 and 1974, which led to cost increases
and to cancellation or revision of some contracts. The implementing agency,
the Office des Routes (Bureau of Roads) has established a revised completion
plan and the project is now expected to be completed by mid-1979.
33.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established
in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The River Transport Project (1971)
helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways, i.e., the Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), the Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), and
the Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM). The Railway and River Transport Proj-
ect (1975) continued this assistance and provided funds for a major manage-
ment training program for ONATRA. The First, Second and Third Highway
Projects (1969, 1972 and 1975) provided technical assistance to establish
and operate the Bureau of Roads. The Education Project (1972) included
a manpower survey to furnish data for a review of the educational system,
and the Livestock Project (1973) helped establish the National Livestock
Development Authority, which has since acquired responsibilities beyond the
project area.
34.       The Bank Group's main efforts are directed towards assisting in
the rehabilitation of the agriculture, transport, and education sectors
and in the design and implementation of appropriate policies. However,
the thrust of our assistance to Zaire will focus on coordinating and rein-
forcing the efforts made to reverse the trend of declining agricultural out-
put, decrease reliance on agricultural imports, and promote the export of
selected agricultural commodities so as not to aggravate the country's dif-
ficult balance of payments situation over the next few years. Some empha-
sis has also been given to industry and water supply.
35.       Inadequate transport is the major physical impediment to the coun-
try's development. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the
improvement of its river/rail arterial network, and the Association is helping
to finance both studies and new investments designed to extend and improve
this system which is essential for inter-regional commerce, agricultural



- 11 -
development and as a feeder network for the river/rail system. Agriculture
is receiving increasing attention from the Government and the Bank Group's
efforts have emphasized increasing agricultural production through the re-
habilitation and expansion of existing agricultural exploitations such as
ranches, oil palm plantations, and smallholder cattle and cotton. A project
for increasing smallholder maize production is being appraised and projects in
mixed farming, forestry, fisheries, and sugar are under preparation or iden-
tification. In education, there is a need for curriculum reform, and emphasis
on non-formal and vocational education, especially agricultural training. In
this area our objective will be to assist the Government in framing appro-
priate policies through project formulation. In the area of public utilities,
our assistance would be directed toward assuring broader access to these
essential facilities and strengthening the executing agencies. The Bank is
also assisting the Department of Planning through the UNDP Planning Assistance
Project, for which the Bank is Executing Agency.
36.       A Consultative Group Meeting for Zaire was held in Paris from
June 8-10, 1977 after a hiatus of more than three years. There was a con-
structive discussion of Government economic policy and past errors. The Group
expressed its concern about the shortage of Government funds to execute
ongoing projects and criticized the failure to assure repatriation of the
windfall profits on coffee. The Group strongly supported the Government's
intention to give highest priority to the development of agriculture and
decided to create a Working Group on Agriculture chaired by the World Bank
to facilitate donor coordination, advise the Government on appropriate poli-
cies and identify new project possibilities. The first meeting of the Working
Group took place in Kinshasa, during mid March, to review the Government
1978-80 Agricultural Development Plan. A request for coordination in
Transport has already led to some informal arrangements for this purpose.
The Consultative Group may be reconvened after the Government completes
its final draft 1978-80 Economic Recovery Plan and agrees with the IMF on a
short term stabilization program.
37.       A fourth highway project continuing assistance to the Office des
Routes is scheduled to go the the Board during the summer. A railway proj-
ect and a smallholder maize project were appraised in December 1977 and are
scheduled for Board presentation in FY79.  A third education project and a
pipeline project are scheduled for appraisal in May 1978 and September 1978
respectively.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
38.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.  The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in several climates, which make possible a variety
of cropping patterns. Approximately 75 percent of the population derives its



- 12 -
livelihood directly from agriculture, and much of the remaining 25 percent is
indirectly dependent on it for employment. Zaire also has the world's largest
reserve of tropical hardwoods, and fishing could be developed considerably
more in the country's extensive river and lake network.
39.       There are, however, a number of constraints confronting the pace
at which the sector can be developed: the quality of soils, which is only
average for tropical Africa; the great distances over which goods have to be
carried; the lay-out of the transport system, which was initially designed
to facilitate the flow of minerals and plantation crops to ports and the
return haul of imports; the neglect of interregional connections, especially
between north and south; and the low density of population in some rural
areas, which compounds the problem of distance mentioned above. These dif-
ficulties have been accentuated by the decreased efficiency of the transport
and marketing system since independence.
40.       Agricultural production in Zaire is organized along dual lines
consisting, on the one hand, of traditional cash and subsistence farming
(cassava, maize, rice, plantain, groundnut, livestock, coffee and cotton)
and, on the other, large scale commercial agriculture (palm oil, rubber,
sugar, coffee and ranching). Family labor is the main input in the tradi-
tional sector. Land ownership follows the tribal pattern in which the right
to cultivate specific plots is granted by the chief, but the crops produced
are considered the property of the farmer. In contrast, commercial agriculture
consists mainly of large, sometimes capital-intensive units employing modern
concepts of crop husbandry and management. Palm oil, coffee and rubber are the
main export crops, while sugar and livestock are produced for the domestic
market.
41.       The Department of Agriculture is responsible for formulating agri-
cultural policies, supervising parastatal bodies and providing extension
services. The Department is headed by a State Commissioner with a Director
General as its senior official. It has five divisions: Administration,
Agricultural Studies and Policies, Agricultural Production, and Animal Health
and Production. The most important problem facing the Department is a
shortage of qualified staff for the formulation, implementation and evalu-
ation of agricultural policies and projects.
42.       Until recently, the Government gave low priority to the agricul-
tural sector and, as a consequenceo agricultural production has deteriorated
substantially since independence, causing among other things, an accelerated
migration of the rural population to the urban centers. Output declined even
further as a result of the "radicalization" and "zairianization" measures
of 1973 and 1974 and production is now far below 1960 figures. In 1976, the
agricultural sector accounted for only about 15 percent of GDP and agricul-
tural exports were only 14 percent of total exports. Production of some
commodities which the country used to export has decreased to the extent that,
in a number of cases, such as palm oil and cotton, there will soon be a need
to import to meet local demand unless the current decline is reversed. Food



- 13 -
accounts for about 20 percent of merchandise imports. The effects of this
situation on the balance of payments have been serious.
43.       There are several additional problems facing agriculture in Zaire:
(a) too little attention has been paid to rural development, education and
training; (b) until very recently, farm prices were set at levels which pro-
vided no incentive to producers; (c) applied research, once a strong aspect
of industrial agriculture in Zaire, has deteriorated to the point where much
of the planting material is of inferior quality; (d) extension and marketing
services are insufficient and sometimes costly to develop in view of great
distances and sparse population densities involved; and (e) there is a lack
of trained technicians and manpower resources are inadequately mobilized.
44.       The Government has started to give increased emphasis to agricul-
ture in order to raise the standard of living of the rural population, to
achieve foodstuff self-sufficiency, to increase agricultural exports and to
slow the rural exodus. A new Department of Rural Development has been estab-
lished in 1977, agricultural policies are being improved, and a significant
program of agricultural development is planned with assistance from bilateral
and multilateral aid agencies organized under the Consultative Group.
45.       To date the Bank Group has financed only three agricultural proj-
ects in Zaire - two Livestock Projects (Credit 398-ZR, for $8.5 million, of
June 21, 1973, and Credit 697-ZR, for $8.0 million, of August 2, 1977) and a
Cotton Rehabilitation Project (CR 660-ZR for US$8.0 million, of December 28,
1976). In response to the new efforts of the Government in the sector, we
expect in the future to have at least one agricultural project a year in
our lending program.
The Oil Palm Subsector
46.       Zaire was the world's second largest producer and exporter of palm
oil in the fifties and early sixties; its exports amounted to 160,000 tons in
1960. The country has progressively relinquished this position as other
countries stepped up their production programs. Zaire's production capacity
declined in its northern and southern regions, due mainly to unfavorable
price policies and to political uncertainties that brought investment to a
virtual standstill on the plantations and also caused a serious interruption
in the maintenance of natural palm groves and of the infrastructure associated
with them in the southern region. -Zaire will have to import about 80,000
tons of palm oil by 1995 unless efforts are made to rehabilitate and expand
productive capacity in the sector.



- 14 -
47.       There are two main oil palm producing areas in Zaire:  the northern
region, mainly the Cuvette Centrale in the Haut Zaire and Equateur Regions,
where production is principally from industrial plantations, presently
covering around 55,000 ha; and the southern region, consisting of the Mayumbe
and Bandundu regions, where production centers around natural palms (around
200,000 ha in the Mayumbe and around 400,000 ha in Bandundu). In addition,
Bandundu still has about 20,000 ha of old industrial plantations.
48.       From 1970 to 1976, the production of village processed palm oil
remained at about 45,000 tons while commercial production decreased from
168,000 tons to 125,000 tons. During the same period, the quantity absorbed
by the local market increased from 80,000 to 98,000 tons, while the quantity
destined to outside markets declined from 133,000 tons to slightly over 70,000
tons. The rise in the local market's absorptive capacity is expected not only
to continue, but even to accelerate due to population growth in the near term
and to income growth too once the economy recovers, so that the country would
cease to have an exportable surplus sometime in the mid-eighties and would
have to import some palm oil thereafter unless substantial efforts are made to
expand production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       A report entitled, "Zaire - Oil Palm Development Project" (No.
1592-ZR, dated March 29, 1978) is being circulated separately. The Project
was identified by a Bank consultant and was prepared in 1976 by three compa-
nies (representing about two-thirds of Zaire's commercial oil palm industry)
which drew up investment proposals for the rehabilitation of their existing
plantations, at the request of Government and with the assistance of an IBRD/
FAO Cooperative Program team. The Project was appraised in January 1977.
Negotiations were held in Paris in December 1977. The Government delegation
was led by Mr. Mukendi, Director General of the Department of Agriculture.
Representatives of ADB, BADEA and CCCE and of the three Companies included in
the Project (PLZ, Busira Lomami, CCP) participated in the negotiations. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Background and Purpose
50.       Because of the rapidly deteriorating state of the existing oil
palm plantations, the Government, in early 1976, formulated a "Plan d'Urgence"
which focused on the rehabilitation of existing commercial oil palm planta-
tions. Parallel courses of action including the establishment of large new
industrial plantations and the improvement of production in the natural palm
tree areas were considered as relatively costly alternatives for bringing
about substantial production increases within a reasonable time period. The
Government Plan constitutes an effective strategy for investments in the
immediate future because full use would be made of the existing management
capacity of the Companies and the existing plantation infrastructure. Where
necessary, oil mills, roads, social infrastructure, means of transport and
other equipment would be replaced, renewed or improved.



- 15 -
Project Description
51.       The Project is based on the estates of three Companies:  PLZ,
Busira Lomami and CCP, which are located in Zaire's northern provinces of
Equateur and Haut Zaire. These areas are better suited for the cultivation
of oil palm as compared to the southern regions of the country. Over a
five-year development period (1978-1982), the Project would provide for a
planting program of 12,215 ha, of which 9,585 ha would be replanting and
2,630 ha new plantings. To carry out this program the Project also provides
for complete renewal of the equipment of one oil mill, partial renewal of two
mills, and procurement of land clearing equipment (PLZ only); construction or
repair of workers' and staff houses, schools, health clinics and stores;
procurement of fertilizers for young but not yet productive plantations (all
Companies except PLZ); procurement of trucks, tractors and staff vehicles;
training for plantation staff and for government researchers in the oil palm
sector, and employment of additional internationally and locally recruited
staff; and technical assistance for the Department of Agriculture. The
Project also provides for a feasibility study and a pilot program for small-
holder cultivation.
Project Execution and Supervision
52.       Except for the technical assistance and research components which
would be executed by the Department of Agriculture, the Project would be
implemented by the Companies (PLZ, Busira Lomami, and CCP) under the super-
vision of a Government Coordinating Committee, assisted by the Societe Finan-
ciere de Developpement (SOFIDE). The Coordinating Committee would consist of
Government and Company representatives and would be established to discuss and
coordinate Project-related matters; its creation would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Sections 3.05 and 6.01(d) of the draft Credit Agreement). It would
meet at least four times per year, would be chaired by the Director-General of
Agriculture and have as its permanent members senior representatives of the
Departments of Finance, Portfolio, Rural Development, Transport, Planning and
National Economy, the Bank of Zaire and the Office for the Management
of the Public Debt, the managing directors of the three Companies, and SOFIDE.
Government officials responsible for labor relations, health, social affairs
and local administration would be invited to the Committee's meetings on an
ad-hoc basis as required. The Government would appoint a senior official to
act as the Committee's secretary and to maintain relations with the Companies
on a regular basis.  The Committee's tasks would specifically include making
reviews and recommendations on: (i) the Project's progress and problems;
(ii) annual work programs and investment budgets and performance of the
Companies; (iii) the adequacy of labor wages, which have been eroded in real
terms in the past years due to high inflation; (iv) the adequacy of palm oil
prices on the domestic market; and (v) progress of the operations as well as
the annual work programs and budgets of the joint PLZ-CELZA research and seed
multiplication Center. In addition if one of the parties were to withdraw
its support for the research and seed multiplication Center, the Government
would cause the other party to provide all necessary support and funds for
the Center and would take appropriate measures to assure the uninterrupted



- 16 -
production of good quality seeds to meet the demand of the oil palm sector,
if necessary, through imports (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Companies would adjust the level of wages of plantation workers, as
deemed necessary to maintain their labor force at the required level, pro-
vided these adjustments are in accordance with Government policy (Section
4.02 (d ii) of the Credit Agreement).
53.        SOFIDE would be responsible for the administration of external
lending to the two smaller Companies (CCP and Busira-Lomami), namely: as
the intermediary for the CCCE loan and as an agent of the Government for the
IDA funds.  SOFIDE's tasks would include the following:  inspection of the
physical execution of the Project through field visits of the two Companies'
plantations at least twice a year; verification of all tender documents,
disbursement claims and the annual costs of Project components implemented
by the Companies; assistance to the Companies on procurement and disburse-
ment matters; and participation in meetings of the Coordinating Committee.
As an intermediary for CCCE funds SOFIDE would be entitled to a 3 percent
margin to cover its expenditures and risks. For its services in administering
the other on-lent funds SOFIDE would receive an annual fee of about Z 80,000
from Government. The Project provides funds (US$200,000) for the Department
of Agriculture to pay SOFIDE's costs in respect of the first two years of the
project. An administration agreement between Government, SOFIDE, CCCE and
IDA with regard to the administration of the on-lent funds would be signed
before the IDA Credit Agreement becomes effective (Section 6.01(c) of the
draft Credit Agreement). Signature of the subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and the Companies executing the Project and between SOFIDE (for
the CCCE funds) and the Companies executing the project would also be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement (Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 (a)
of the draft Credit Agreement).
54.        The three Companies executing the Project have had considerable
experience in producing palm oil.
(i) PLZ started its operations in Zaire in 1911 and has been
the largest plantation company there ever since. It owns
four oil palm plantations in the northern Equateur and
Haut Zaire regions and three in the Bandundu region and
it now cultivates some 34,400 hectares of oil palm in
addition to about 12,000 hectares of rubber, cacao, and
tea; about a quarter of its oil palm production comes from
fruits collected in the natural palm areas as compared to
about one half coming from the same area in the 1950's.
Unilever Ltd., which owns PLZ among other industrial and
commercial investments in Zaire, is now negotiating a 40
percent participation by Government in PLZ and it wishes
to divest itself of its southern operations (Bandundu)
outside the project area which are no longer suited to
the new high yielding varieties of oil palm.



- 17 -
(ii)  Busira Lomami is owned by the Belgian Group AGRICOM.  Prior
to independence, the company cultivated about 12,000 hec-
tares of oil palm in the Cuvette Centrale on lands where
productive capacity was regarded as the best in Zaire;
prczuction declined following the political upheavals of
the mid-1960's; it now cultivates about 3,800 hectares
of oil palm, 4,300 hectares of rubber, and some 400
hectares of coffee in addition to buying coffee from
villages adjoining its plantations.
(iii)  CCP is owned by the Belgian company OLFICA and has no
interest in plantations other than oil palm; it grows
about 4,300 hectares in the Equateur region and it oper-
ates four oil mills in the southern Bandundu region where
the company still collects fruits from the natural oil
palm groves. The parent companies of CCP and Busira
Lomami are subsidiaries of the Belgian holding company
Compagnie Generale which has extensive interests in
Zaire.
55.       The Government would supervise the implementation of the Project
and, as stipulated under the subsidiary loan agreements, cause all companies
to: (i) adequately staff and operate their social services including basic
health and primary education facilities and supply stores in order to attract
and retain agricultural workers in sufficient numbers (Section 4.02(d) i of
the draft Credit Agreement); (ii) maintain their existing staff at current
levels and adequately t,ain locally recruited staff (Section 4.02(c) of the
draft Credit Agreement); (iii) assist the Government in identifying and pre-
paring smallholder schemes for oil palm and other crops and to operate pilot
projects where appropriate under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(Section 4.02(e) of the draft Credit Agreement); and (iv) implement changes
in the wages of plantation workers, on the basis of recommendations made by
the Project Coordinating Committee, as deemed necessary to maintain their
labor force at the required levels (Section 4.02(d) ii of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Projet Cost and Financing Plan
56.       Total Project costs (see page ii of Credit and Project Summary)
would be US$47.4 million, including sales and excise taxes of about US$1.7
million; import taxes on items expressly imported for the Project would be
waived by Government and have therefore been excluded from Project cost
estimates. Foreign expenditures are expected to account for US$22.8 million,
or 48 percent of total Project costs. Provision for expected price increases
occurring after the mid-1977 base period would be US$12.3 million or 35 per-
cent of base cost estimates plus physical contingencies. Based on calcula-
tions of the Companies' ability to contribute to the cost of the project, at
least 51% of Project cost (US$24.4 million) requires external financing; the
rest would be financed by the Companies themselves except for US$2.0 million
to be financed by Government for the research training and smallholders
cultivation components. Zaire's Investment Code would be applied in respect



- 18 -
of all investments to be made under the Project (Section 4.04(e) of the draft
Credit Agreement). 74 percent of total Project cost would be invested in
PLZ which accounts for about half of Zaire's oil palm plantations and which,
unlike the other companies, needs substantial investments to rehabilitate its
oil mill equipment.
57.       In addition to an IDA Credit of US$9.0 million, the African Devel-
opment Fund (ADF) will contribute US$6.1 million, the Banque Arabe pour le
Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) will contribute US$4.4 million
and the Caisse Centrale (CCCE) US$4.2 million. USAID will provide through
Government US$0.7 million worth of spare parts and equipment which PLZ ordered
in 1977 to start its 1978 planting program. IDA and CCCE will cofinance on a
joint basis, with pari-passu disbursement, project components for all three
companies. ADF will finance separately technical inputs and machinery for PLZ
only. BADEA will finance part of the oil mill equipment required by PLZ and
will cofinance with IDA the smallholder cultivation and research training
components of the Project. The IDA, ADF, BADEA, CCCE, and USAID contributions
would together finance 52% of all project costs and thus cover all the foreign
exchange requirements (US$22.8 million) and about 7 percent of local costs.
Local cost financing is presently justified by the Government's difficult
budgetary situation.
58.       IDA, ADF and BADEA would lend to the Government and CCCE would
lend its funds to SOFIDE. All funds of the different agencies would be
onlent to the participating Companies, except for an amount of US$4.0 million
which would be used by Government to finance the technical assistance and
smallholders cultivation parts of the Project. The onlending terms for IDA,
ADF, BADEA and CCCE funds would be identical, with a repayment period of 15
years, including 5 years of grace, and an interest rate of 10 percent per
annum. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement that
all conditions precedent to disbursement of the loan agreements between the
Government and the African Development Bank and the Arab Bank for African
Development and between SOFIDE and the Caisse Centrale for parts of the
project to be financed by those institutions have been fulfilled (Section
6.01 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). It was agreed during negotiations
that the Companies would bear the foreign exchange risk on the direct foreign
exchange expenditures (offshore costs) and Government would bear this risk on
all project expenditures in local currency to be financed by IDA as will be
specified in the subsidiary loan agreements between the Companies and Govern-
ment. SOFIDE would administer all on-lent funds under the terms of an Admin-
istration Agreement (para. 53).
59.       To ensure the efficient utilization of resources invested in the
oil palm sector, the Government would allow all participating Companies to:
(i) buy the foreign exchange needed to operate their existing oil palm plan-
tations and installations efficiently including social services (Section
4.04(d) of the draft Credit Agreement); and (ii) permit non-Zairian nationals
employed by the Companies to remit abroad such portion of their salaries as
shall be necesary to attract and retain them (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft
Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Smallholder Cultivation
60.       The Project provides for US$0.5 million for studies and US$2.0
million for pilot schemes to determine the feasibility and effective design
for the development of smallholder cultivation within and adjacent to the
plantations. Such schemes would help the Companies attract and retain suf-
ficient labor by supplementing wage income with food crops and livestock. It
would also promote agricultural production and raise the standard of living
of the rural population in the Project areas by making full use of the exist-
ing infrastructure and technical expertise on the nucleus estates. Funds for
this Project component would be made available to Government which, as would
be agreed, would reimburse the Companies for the cost of additional expenses
they incur in identifying, preparing and implementing these pilot projects.
The Companies with their resource base in Zaire and backup facilities over-
seas are well placed to carry out this task in which they have considerable
experience. The scope of the pilot projects program would be defined with
Government, the Companies, and the cofinancing agencies, the role and respon-
sibilities of the Companies would be established, and a work program would
be agreed as a result of the feasibility studies undertaken. The submission
of detailed proposals, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of disburse-
ment against expenditures under this component (Schedule 1, para 4(ii) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Training and Research
61.       The Project would provide for three training programs to develop a
local cadre of skilled personnel in management and technical positions and
to reduce reliance on expatriate staff. The first training program would be
organized on PLZ's plantations and would provide 50 man-years of formalized
one-year practical training courses for plantation sector and division chiefs;
housing, transport and cost of living allowances would be provided to the
trainees. The second program would ease the shortage of qualified mechanics
for the maintenance of oil mills and transport fleets by expanding the curri-
culum of an existing secondary school run by a Catholic mission near PLZ's
Lokutu plantation to include a course in mechanics; a teacher, a classroom,
a dormitory and instructional equipment would be provided. PLZ would be
responsible for executing these two training programs and graduates would
be available to any oil palm company. The third program provides for two
additional expatriate oil palm researchers to train eight Zairian researchers,
over the five-year period covered by the Project, at the joint PLZ/CELZA re-
search station; housing, transport, scientific instruments and other facili-
ties would be provided.
Technical Assistance
62.       In order to strengthen the Department of Agriculture's capacity
to respond more effectively to the demands of the oil palm sector (formula-
tion of policies, preparation and supervision of projects) the Project would
provide funds (US$500,000) which would be used for: (i) recruitment of an
expert; and/or (ii) ad-hoc consultancies; and (iii) training of Companies and
Government staff, either by the expert mentioned under (i) and/or through
study trips abroad to other palm oil producing countries. The submission by



- 20 -
Government of a detailed technical assistance plan, acceptable to the Associa-
tion, would be a condition of disbursement under this component (Schedule 1,
para 4(ii) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
63.       For the parts of the Project to be financed jointly by IDA and CCCE
or by IDA alone, the following procurement arrangements would apply.  The oil
mill equipment, valued at about $5.7 million, would be procured through ICB.
Construction of houses and social buildings, valued at US$1.6 million (Busira
and CCP), and civil works and erection of equipment for the oil mills, valued
at US$0.9 million (PLZ) would be undertaken on force account by the oil palm
Companies themselves. Vehicles, trucks, tractors, tools, fertilizers, and
pesticides, valued at about US$1.2 million, in orders exceeding US$50,000
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines (orders would be bulked whenever possible); local
procurement procedures, acceptable to the Association, would be followed for
orders under US$50,000 (Busira and CCP). Expert staff, with an estimated
foreign exchange cost of US$1.1 million (PLZ and CCP), would be recruited
directly by the Companies themselves.
64.       The remaining items to be financed by IDA and CCCE would be for
planting inputs such as labor, oil palm seeds, vehicle operating costs and
sundry expenditures. None of these items would be suitable for any form of
competitive bidding and would therefore be procured by the Companies through
direct purchase. Technical assistance, research training and pilot programs
for smallholder cultivation, valued at US$4 million, are not expected to
involve procurement suitable for ICB; all goods and services for these com-
ponents would be procured by Government in accordance with its normal pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to the Association. ADF funds will be used to
finance on a parallel basis PLZ's expenditures for fertilizers and chemicals,
heavy land clearing equipment, vehicles, buildings and training. BADEA will
finance part of PLZ's oil mill equipment and part of the research training and
smallholder cultivation components of the Project.)
Disbursement
65.       IDA and CCCE would disburse over six years (1978-1983), pari-passu
in the ratio 65/35, against Project expenditures to be incurred by the oil
palm companies.  Excluding unallocated contingencies, disbursements would be
as follows:
(a)  For the PLZ Company:
(i) 65% of cif cost of oil mill equipment, including
engineering cost (US$3.5 million);
(ii) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of expert staff
(US$0.6 million);
(b)  For the Busira and CCP companies:
(i) 65% of cif cost of fertilizers, chemicals, and
transport equipment (US$0.3 million);



- 21 -
(ii) 65% of the foreign exchange cost of expert staff
(US$0.1 million);
(iii) US$450 for each ha planted under the Project
(US$1.0 million);
(iv) up to US$1,500 for each new worker or staff house,
school, clinic, store, workshop and office to be
built under the Project (US$0.5 million);
(v)  US$750 for each worker's house rehabilitated under
the Project (US$0.5 million).
In addition, IDA would disburse 40% of the foreign cost of expenditures to be
incurred by Government under the technical assistance component of the Project
(US$1.1 million) and 40% of the smallholders cultivation component of the
Project. The number of buildings to be constructed or rehabilitated by the
CCP and Busira-Lomami companies and the areas to be planted by them are
specified in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement. Disbursement against foreign
exchange expenditures would be fully documented. Disbursement against plant-
ings and constructions would be made on presentation of evidence, certified by
SOFIDE, that the particular stage of the works is completed. Reimbursement
claims would be countersigned by SOFIDE and the Department of Agriculture.
Marketing and Prices
66.       Both internal and external marketing of palm oil products is in the
hands of the private sector, while the Government regulates internal market
prices and sets export quotas.  In the past, Government determined fixed pro-
portions of palm oil for sale on the local market and for export, but since
1976 exports are authorized only on an ad-hoc basis, depending on the needs of
the domestic market. Total domestic consumption of palm oil produced by the
industrial companies increased from about 47,000 tons in 1970 to about 73,000
tons in 1975. Some 47,000 tons of the 1975 consumption were sold to the
manufacturing industry, mainly for making soap and margarine, while the other
25,000 tons were sold to licensed private traders. In addition, 45,000 tons
of village palm oil was produced in 1975 and half of it is believed to have
been sold to traders outside the producing areas. An unknown part of the oil
marketed through traders is believed to have been sold illegally to neighbor-
ing countries, while the balance wAs sold for household usage within Zaire.
According to some estimates, oil smuggled to neighbouring countries was about
25,000 tons in 1975.
67.       Palm oil was sold on the local market at the export parity price
prior to 1967. Since then, the Government fixed producer prices and whole-
sale and retail prices for palm oil sold on the domestic market. The offi-
cial prices were consistently below the world market prices. This policy,
designed to protect the consumer, was not effective because at the retail
level the oil was unofficially sold at prices far exceeding the official
price. At the producer level, however, and also at the wholesale level ex-
Kinshasa, the low official prices were enforced, which seriously discouraged



- 22 -
producers from making necessary new investments. In 1976, Government cor-
rected the situation by increasing the domestic wholesale price to a level
almost equal to the corresponding world market price, net of export duties
and other taxes. The Government and IDA shall exchange views annually on
the level of the internal prices for palm oil in order to make such changes
as recommended by the Project Coordinating Committee on the basis of changes
in production costs and world market prices (Section 4.05 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Economic and Financial Benefits and Justification
68.        The direct benefits from the Project would be the incremental
production of about 33,000 tons of palm oil and about 10,000 tons of palm
kernels per year, with a value of about US$18 million (1977 prices), at full
maturity in 1990. In that year, the Project's output would represent about
18% of Zaire's total palm oil production (186,000 tons) and it would sub-
stitute for imports which would otherwise be required.
69.       The internal financial rate of return for PLZ's part of the
Project is estimated at 18 percent, for Busira's at 21 percent and for CPP's
part at 16 percent. The net income of the Companies is estimated to be about
20 percent of gross revenues from the sales of palm oil and kernels. Of this,
52 percent would be paid to the Government as company taxes, i.e. a maximum of
about US$1.3 million per year from 1987-97. The remaining 48 percent (US$1.2
million per year from 1987-97) would represent the Companies' net profits
which would partly be retained in the Companies and partly distributed to
the shareholders. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole Project is
estimated at 16 percent. For the individual Companies' parts of the Project
the EER varies between 18 percent for Busira and 14 percent for CCP. Foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at 127 percent of the official exchange rate
to reflect its economic value. Import parity prices for palm oil were used
in the economic analysis. The official price of oil, ex-Kinshasa, which is
adequate at present, has been used in the financial analysis.
Risks
70.       The major risk facing the Project is that the planting program
would need to be reduced if the Companies failed to recruit sufficient num-
bers of plantation workers. A lesser risk is the uncertain river transport
situation which could impair the delivery of essential supplies and the ship-
ment of the Companies' palm oil and palm kernels. Delays in the planting
program and transport would result in higher overhead costs per ton of oil
produced and possibly also in lower revenues. Both the financial and the
economic rates of return would decrease by about two percentage points if
for the above (or any other) reasons the costs were to increase by 10 per-
cent; a further reduction by another two percentage points would occur if
simultaneously the Project's benefits were to decrease by 10 percent. Recent
measures to strengthen ONATRA's management and operational staff are expected
to reduce the river transport risk significantly. The Project provides for
several measures to ease the present shortage of plantation laborers: (a)
land clearing operations on a large part of PLZ's plantations are being



- 23 -
mechanized; (b) the level of the needed increase in wages for plantation
workers is now being discussed between the Government and the Companies; (c)
the feasibility study and pilot projects for smallholders cultivation should
indicate the most effective manner in which plantation laborers can supplement
their wage income with subsistence and cash cropping, and livestock; and (d)
the improvement in housing and social services would constitute an added
incentive.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
73.       The following conditions would be fulfilled before the IDA Credit
becomes effective (Section 6.01 of the draft Credit Agreement):
(a) onlending subsidiary loan agreements between Government
and the three Companies and between SOFIDE and the three
Companies would have been signed (para. 53);
(b) loan agreements between Government and the African Devel-
opment Fund and BADEA, and between SOFIDE and the Caisse
Centrale for parts of the Project to be financed by those
institutions would have become effective (para. 58);
(c)  an administration agreement between Government, the Caisse
Centrale, the Association, and SOFIDE with regard to the
administration of the on-lent IDA and Caisse Centrale
funds would have been signed (para. 53);
(d) Government would have established the Project Coordinating
Committee (para. 52); and
(e) IDA is informed of the specific measures which have been
or will be taken by the Government and the Companies in
order to enable the Companies to recruit and maintain the
labor force necessary to carry out the project successfully
(para. 52).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 3, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE                - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                       ---
---------------                       ZAIRE                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2345.4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     326.2                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE          ETHIOPIA _NIGERtIA              BRI**
ONP PER CAPITA (USS)                      60.0*      90.0*  140.0*                 70.0*      190.0*      S50.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
__ ___________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            16.6       21.6      25.4                24.8        66.2        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         7.0       9.0 1a..A                     20.0        72.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         52.0      67.0       /O.U                31.0       146.0        49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          47.3      46.6       45.2                50.3        49.8        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           26.0      23.2       20.5                26.7        24.5         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        104.0/a       ..        ..                  ..          ..       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       39.5       42.0       43.5                38.5        38.5        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ,.        2.6       2.9                 2.9         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   *-       2.7        2.7                 2.1         2.5         2.9
URBAN                                   ..       3.6        8.0                 6.0         5.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           19.7       21.6      26.4                 9.6        23.0        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.7       44.4       44.2                43.0        44.8        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.5       52.8       53.0                54.3        53.0        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.8        2.6       2.8                 2.7         2.2         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9       0.9                 0.6         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0 /b     1.1/a      1.1/a              1,0/a       1.2/8       1 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOUJ)           ..        ..         ..                   ,        12.9       250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7900.0    9700.0   10800.0              10800.0    25600.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          83.0      79.0       77.0/b              85.0        67.0        40.4
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..        ..                 2.9          ..         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        ..                                        35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        ..                                        62.0/a
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                           ..       ..                  .. 
LOWEST  40% OF NOUS6HOL"S               ..        ..         ..                  ,.          ..        10.0 /
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ,.   30040.0   27900.0/c            73300.0    24660.0/b   1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..   13230.0   11eSO.O/C            23640-0/b   5070.0/b   3220.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               ..     320.0      220.0              2980.0      2220.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          92.0      92.0       85.0               94.0        89.0       104.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              33.0       33.0       32.0                69.0       60.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       16.0/b   12.5                 25.0         16.0       39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                  ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       60.0       90.0       88.0/c              17.0       34.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       3.0       9.0       11.0                 4.0         4.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                ..      13.0       12.0               12.0        14.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     27.0       10.0       14.0                4.0         8.0        17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..       13.0      15.0                  ..          ..       64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         ..      89.0/c    gi.o/d                 ..         ..        73.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..        2.0/C                ..          ..       46.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        S.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0         ..     101.0                 6.0        23.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       3.0        4.0                 2.0         1.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           137.0     141.0      146.0                21.0       28.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..       0.02       0.05               0.04         0.3        2.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2  of   5
Vnire   otherwia  octed, data for 1960 refer to any year btom.e  1959 and 19AI, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for M!ot Rocant Ectimata between
1973 and 1976.
a  CNP par capita data  re baced On the World Sank Atla  nethodolgy (1974-7a  baais).
Brazil h.a been aelected .a an objective country for Zaire became ef the CtmarabilLty of ae  and uatural reaooree  ndo,snnt of the two
countria, plus the faet that Brazil has a high greetb rats _ t at a higher imrt level.
ZAIRE         1960    I!  1955-58, African population only;    /b  RAtio of population und-r 15  nd 65 wd over to total labor force.
1970    /.  Ratio of population Mder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    lb  194-66                 /c  Percentage of population without
Occe.s  to cafe wter.
MOST REC7NT RSTntATE       /a  Ratio of popeletima u'S  r 15 ed  65 cad ever to total labor force;    /b  As porcentage of eaploynent;
/c  1972;    /d  Ptee teg- of ppnlatino  without -c-ase to aafe weter.
ETHIOPIA      1970    /n  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ib  Includig eidwis.
NIGERIA       1970         RatIo of populaon under 15        635 and over to total labor force:    /b  Ragietered, not .11 practicing in the country.
BRAZIL        1970    Eo ioonmicslly  ctivc pOpUlation;    /b  Hompital pereomel;    /c  Iaide only.
R8, April 10, 1978
DvI7ITIDPS OF SOtCAL INDICATORS
Laod Area (thbon                                                                          Poulation por noreina v r-on - Popolation dicidcd by nunber of practicing
Total  -T        -orface     -pi ccrieiog land area ad inland wacra.                        n-1. end fi1ae gerdoate ourea, "traind" or "certified" nureec, and
Agric.  -ion  rocact e-timate Of agricultur-l  re- u-ad twaporarily or pea-                 auiliary pOrconnl with training or aperience.
nently for ceopa, pacturec, narkot A kitchen gardena  or to lie fallo.                  Populatino ner hanPital bed - Pnpnlation divided by  nubr of hoapitcl bed
availble in poblic and private gener-l and apecialiced hoapital and
GNP per caPit. (uS$) - GNP per capita netina-te  ca currant narkat pricce,                   rebilitation centers; ancludc nureing ho-e. and ectablieheote for
celoolactd by ce,n  con-erei. - thod aa World Bank Atlac (1973-75 basis);                 cuaodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Par ac>it. euPPl, of olorize ft of roquirinantc) - COiputed frn energy
equivalent of not food zoppliec available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital atati-tic;                                                             evilabla eUpplice  omprien da*atic prodootion, iportc Iee.  enporta, and
Population mid-year nillion)   us of Joly firet:  if not vailabl,  verage                   c _han    in etok; net aupplie  -nciuda animal feed, aeadc, quantities uaed
of twO end-year aetinatet; 1 t0, 1970  nd 1975 data,                                      in food prccaing and loaca in diatrlbution; rrquir-n.t  nr. eatinced
by FA0 bheed on Phynilgical needs for coral activity  nd health coid-
Population d-naicy - nor aquare kn - Mid-year populatim  par aquar  kilctr                  acing _ilre_al imperature, body nighta, age and ... di tributione of
(100 hacterei) of total res                                                               populion, and allmwing 10  for wact at household lvl.
Ppo.lation density - n            r acu  ra kn of aric. land - Ciputed aa above for       Per Ceelta eufI of erocin (cram  par day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                   -c  eupply of fend per d y; ntc eupply of food i  defined a  bove; require-
nncst for a11 onmtria eatabliahed by USDA ftonmoic Rea arcbh SIvice.
VitaI etatistics                                                                             prenida for a ninia alioanca of 60 gra  of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate pnr thoa-cod. avraga - Annual lIio  births par thouand of                   20 gra   af anial " ad pulac protein, of which 10 gSn  ahould bh  anical
nid-year population; ten-year arithiatic averge  ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; Chea  acandarde are 1vr than thoae of 75 gr_ of total protein
and five-year average onding in 1975 for m-t r-cant e*ticate.                              and 23 gr     of anial pretein a  an  verage for the vorld, peopoaed by FA0
Crode death rate par thouaand  sveraa - Annual da8the per thoo-nd of mid-year                in the rhird World Food survy.
population; ten-year ariclactic averagee ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per caeit  erot m iunel, fr-n  nimal and pule  - Prottin *upply of food
year average  n ding ir 1975 for no. t       coent eatlmate                               dented fro  ania   end pule-a  in gra  per dy.
Infnt norialiry rotc (/thou) - Accual deaths of icfanct  under one year of age            Death rate  (/tbou) sac  1-4 - Annual deaths per thoueand in age group 1-4
per thouSand live births.                                                                  year, to children in this age group; suggested as  n indicator of
Life enneccancy *c birth lyre) - Average ounbar of y--r- of life renaining at                ealn-trition.
birth; uually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1971 and 1975 for deveiop-
ing  countries.                                                                         Ed-otion
Groac retroduction race - Average nwubr of liv- daughtar  a .von  w vill bear              Adjusted enrolLn-t ratio - nrimarY achool - Enrollent of a11 ages as p r-
in her torn81 reproductive peciud if she enperteine prezent aga-epecific                   centage of prinary school-ago populatim; include children aged 6-11 yeare
fertility rates; us- lly five-year  ver-ges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but djuted for different lengths of pripary education; for countri.e vith
for developing couotria..                                                                  universal education, *nrollnet nay emceed 100I% cine  oe puple are belon
PoNulation aroed, rate (E1 - total - Coipound annu-l grouth racee of nid-year                or sbove the official echool age
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 197-75Adtd   r                                                       antratio  - econdary chool - Corpced ac above,; econdary
PoPulatioc grc-th rate (%) - urban - imputed like grouch rete of total                       education reqaires at least foor year of pprovd priary icatructio;
p.pulatioc; different dofititions of urb-c sr.ai may affect  omp-rability of               providon general, vocational or teacher training inetructiona for pupils
data eoonf oouctriee                                                                       of 12 to 17 yeare of age; corroapadence  coraaa arc generally ancIuded.
Urfhn populatton (% of tot-l) - Ratio of vrban to total popultion; different               years of achoolima eovided (firet and second lavela) - Total yar  of
defioitiont of orb-t -rean -y  ffc t conparability of data  nong -ountrie.                 echooling; at cecondary level, vocational instruction nay be partially or
ompletcly secluded.
/ 6tructucr lorcoot) - Childrrn (0-14 yours), working-age (15-64 years),              Vonationni enrollment (Y of aecondery) - Vocational ir titution  includ
a      i retired (65 years sod over) on perce-tage- of mid-year population.                technical, industrial or other progre wbich operate indendeotly or en
ARe depedcocv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 -nd ooer to thoan                  depatcenta of .eowcdary in titutione
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult liteMcac  rate Ct) - Litirstc adol1t  jable to resd and wits) c)   p-
Etoonmic dependency  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 acd 65 and over to                 cantage of total adult popultion aged 15 years ad eer.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 year.
Fmily olau -ino -      pccc tore  cunolative, thou) - iCtnlative n- nber of acceptors      gou"ilg
of birth-control d-vicee under auspice- of national fenily planning progr-n              Pesmn  pr rmor (urban) - Average ,nubr of para-o    per re  in oncapind
circe inception.                                                                           oonv-ntional dwllinga in urbhn aresa; dwelling- eclude con-pernnent
FilI, plcniug - usera  Xf of mried               Protge of married           n of            ateuctros ad unaccupisd parts.
child-bearing  age (15-44 yearn) who use birth-control devicee to all married             eanpied dllimga without piped water Ct) - Occupied con-entional dwlling
wanD in e*ns age group.                                                                    in orbhn  nd raral ara"  without inaide or outeide piped watsr failltiet
aa percentage of .11 oncupind dwelling.
iDelo.enent                                                                                uccasa to elctricity fT of a11 dnllngm l) - Conventional dwellings  ith
Total labor force (thousand) - EconoaicaIly active persons, iDclading a.ned                  elotricity in living quarter  s percent of tetal dwellings in arban end
forcee ed unployed but -ocluding housives, student, etc.; definitions                      rural *r--
in osria' countries ar  not consparble                                                   lvrgl dnllinRM connected to electricity (1) - Ciputed  s cbore for  -eal
Labor forts in agricltucre (t) - Agric -lturl labor force (in farning, forestry,             dwelling  only.
bunting nd fi-hing) ac percentage of total labor force.
Un-ployed (t of labor force)  -                    -nployed are uually defined -  persona who  Conuption
fre able ed willing to tabk  a job, ouc of a job on a gives day , reind out              Radio receivers (lar thou Pg) - All type of reciver  for radia broadc..ts
of a Job, and caking work for   s pecified ninin  period not exceding oe-                  to general public per theeaMnd of population;   nludea unlicaad receiver
week;  y  not be cU aparable between couqtriea due to different definitiona                in countriec and in  -r   an  registration of radio *at w   in affct;
of uniployed  nd amure of data, eg.   ploywamt office statiteic-, ample                    data for recent yars wy not be tnparable  Jie  oat noontrie  aboliehed
a-veyc, cpulieay Onmployent inarence                                                        licena 0ig.
Peea=aer cars t e    bthen sow) - Peasenger oars  rria -wter nan canting
7ncti  diatributim  - Percnwtage of private irns- (both in cash  nd bind)                    lnc than eight Preew ; a uclade  _bulnc_ae, hearees  nd nilitcry
recetied by richest 57, rihbect 20, pooret 20X, nd poewet 401 of hmea-                    vehicl.
holda.                                                                                     lactrticit  (hb/Tr war n-) - Asa-l cowacption of induatritl, crcial,
publie and private clntsicity in kilo_tC bore per c_pIta, gSrlly
Dintribution of land o rehie - Psrcentagee of land owd by  Cltbi_t 102                        bed on prdutioe data,  ithout allownce for Iowan in gride but  ll-
and pooreat 10% of land oers.                                                              i-g for hePrt  and port   of eectricity.
_ rain (kCmyr war ned  - Por capita   -           --a ca wtimo  in kilegr_
hldt end lltrition                                                                            rai eted Ere    datic prnduction plus o t Sparta of n_eprit.
Population pr ehysician - Population divided by r.ber of practicing
phycicca quslfied fre a medical ehool at  nivereity lel.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Acttl                                Est.        -       Growth rates                                Share of GDP
196  1970                1974                1970         1974             1976
1970          1973          1974          1975         1976       1974                1976
A.  Iaci.on.a1 AccouLncs
(21.11. L'A$ at 1970 prices)
1.  GDP                                   1904.2         2208.6       2344.0       2235.8       2171.4                           -3.6              100.0          100.0                .
2.  Gains from TT                            --128.6                  -168.7       1441.08-389.                                   87                100.0          92.8             82.1
. Gross Do. Income                       1904.2         2080.0       2175 .3      1794.8        178. 78        8                192                43'°           479              299
In?arta835.0                                           1017.4       1123.8        720.4         650.0      7.8                -1.9.                43.8          42.1             29.93
5,.  Empir tS -olre826.6                                  966.6        986.8         897.2        908.0     40.3                -36.9                43.4          342.1            219
5.  Exports -    aoluuse                    826.6         838.0        818.1        456.2         518.4    14506                -26.9                -0.4          34.9             21.9
7.  Resourct  GAP - T T adjust                8.4         179.4        305.7         264.2        13.6 
7.  Reoua consueGpTioa                     1394.4        1531.2       1764.2       1480.6        1363.4      6.1               -10.8                 73.7          75.3             62.8
9.  Invtat nentm518.2                                     720.6        753.0        578.4         550.0      9.8               -1.2.7                27 .2         32.1             25.3
10.  i~oinvezen Sai1s 7.6                                 42.           2S2.6        230.9        319.1    -7.0                   6.3                19.8           12.1             114.7
11.  DorcstiC Savings                        509.8         548.8        411.1         323.8        418.4     -5.2                  0.9                26.8          17.5              19.3
12.  GDP at current US$                     1904.2        2753.9       3591.8       3586.2        3832.3
Sect-r  D-tout
iSnare of GDP at 1970 prices)
1.  Prlsary Sectors                          16.7          15.3          14.9         15.5        15.0        2                  -2.5
.  Secp ndary Sectors                        35.0          35.2         34.9          35.1        35.0       5.2                 -3.2
2.  Tertiary Sectors                         48.3          49.5         45.4          45.1        45.0       6.8                 -5.2
C.  Ffices (1970=100)
1.  Export price index                      100.0         115.2        149.0         108.3        120.2
2.  Isport price ;ndex                      100.0         132.9        179.8         213.2        210.5
3. Tertrso prade index                      100.0          86.7         82.9          50.8         61.9
G'DP deflator                          100.0          124.7        154.2        164.T        250.2 _l
5.  Aver. Exchange Rate (Z/$)               100.0           0.5           0.5          0.5          0.79
D.  Selec.ed  Indicators                       1970-74       1974-76
1.  IcC'R                                     5.9         -7.71
2.  Import Elasticity                         1.47         5.33
3.  Avcr. Natl. Savings Rate                  0.18         0.15
4.  Marg. Natl. Savings Rate                 -0.35        -0.09
5.  IrmnortsIGOP                              0.46         0.31
6.  Invest=ent/GDP                            0.32         0.26
7.  Resource Gap/GDP                          0.09         0.09
E.  ?:blic Finance 1/                          1970          1973          1974         1975         1976
(as 7. of GDP)
1.  Current revenue                          33.1          27.4         30.0          24.1         16.0                                                                                             (D
.1.1 Iax revenue                             30.0           26.9         28.1         21.8          15.6                                                                                            L
2. Current expenditures                      27.2          24.4         2948.206-
3.  Capital expenditures                      6.6           7.6.         11.1          4.7          5.1                                                                                             0
1/ Budgetary operations
IT .   increase in the implicit GDP deflator is equal to 52% basei on zaires.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(MiLlions of DoLLars)
Actual                                  Est.
1970           1973           1974           1975            1976
A.  Summary Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (inc. NFS)                       826.6          1113.6         1470.2          971.6          1091.1
2.  Imports (inc. NFS)                       835.0          1352.2         2020.6         1535.8          1368.2
3.  Resource Balance                          -8.4          -238.6         -550.4         -564.2          -277.1
4.  Net factor service income               -132.2          -167.4         -231.1         -195.6          -189.9
1.  Direct investment income             -29.6          -23.1           -21.9          -11.7           -4.9
2.  Workers remittances (net)            _97.7          -99.3         -115.4           -86.4          -80.0
3.  Other factor service income           -4.9          -45.0           -93.8          -97.5         -105.0
5.  Current transfers (net)                    77.2          126.2          118.9          103.2           130.0
6.  Balance on current account                -63.4         -279.8         -662.6         -656.6          -337.0
7.  Private direct investment                 42.2            75.6          125.4           37.5             -
8.  Public M & LT loans
9.  Disbursements                             34.8           370.0          494.9          493.4          440.1
10.  Amortization                               29.5           62.3           97.7           73.6            93.9
11.  Net disbursements                           5.3          307.7          397.2          419.8           346.2
12.  Short-term capital                         38.0           75.8          143.8         -172.4             -
13.  Arrears Anet)                               -              -              -            329.0           89.0
14.  Errors and omissions                     -30.1          -110.3          -96.8         -135.3         -165.2
15.  Change in net reserves (-=increase)         8.0          -69.0           93.0          178.0           67.0
(of which IMF)                          (-)            (3.4)          (0.5)         (51.2)         1l24.1j
B. Grants and loans commitments
1.  Official grant                            79.3           119.8          146.7          167.1          169.6
2.  Total public M & LT loans                257.2           987.0          916.4          324.5          337.9
1.  IBRD                                   -              -               -            100.0            -
2.  IDA                                    5.0            8.5           10.0            52.0           42.5
3.  Other multilateral                     _              3.9           30.2             2.0           27.2
4.  Governments                           10.0          284.0          252.8           102.0           87.2
5.  Supplies                             189.1          106.7          102.2             -             16.8
6.  Financial institutions                53.0          546.7          521.2           68.5             -
7.  Bonds                                  -              _              -               -
8.  Other                                  --            37.2            -               -            164.2
C.  Memorandum items 1/
1.  Grant element of total loan               23.9             25.4         15.3            22.4           47.6
commitments
2.  Average interest (percent)                 5.o             6.0           7.2             6.6'           4.9
3.  Average maturity (years)                  11.7            15.4           13.0           18.7           20.0
4.  Average grace                              3.0            4.8            4.5             4.7            5.3
1/   Includes debt relief.



DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
(millions of US dollars)
Actual                                                       Est.
1970             1971             1972             1973             1974             1975             1976
A,          zi.id I. ng-Term Debt (Disbursed only)
1.  Iut.il I.ebt outstanding (DOD  end of period)  311.6                352.0            576.6            894.2           1310.3           1684.2           2081.7
In,luding undisbursed                             618.1            632.1            760.6           1678.5            2561.1           2737.5
A.  -odb ic debt service                                38.6             39.6             60.7             95.9            175.1            164.3             198.3
1. lrnerest                                          9.2              9.4             17.3             33.6             77.4             90.7            104.4
' ic debt service ratio                         4.7              5.3              8.0              8.6             11.9              16.9             18.2
P tubiic debt service/GDP                                2-0              2.0              2.8              3.5              4.9              4.3               5.1
3.   .bic debt service/Govt revenue                 6.1              6.8             10.2             12.7              16.3             19.0             32.0
C.    te .s
i.  'rert C-l total DOD/total DOD                        3.0              3.0              4.9              5.8               8.7              6*9              5.1
2.  I. C1 cobz service/total DOD                        12.6             12.7             17.2             16.6             19.6              12.5              9*8
--lios for M & IT Debt
I.  ,ross disburserments/Impcrts (inc. NFS)              4.2             19.8             25.0             27 4             19.7              32.1             32.2
' ransfer/ImDorts (inc. NFS)                   -0.5             15.7             19.3             20.2             15.8              21.4             17.7
3.  ;    ransfer/0ross disbursements                   -10.9             79.0             77.3             74.1             64.6              66.7             54.9
E. xrosu--e
.. dis./CrOss total disb                          -                -                -                -                 -               2.4              5.9
, b':  rou    isb./Gross total disb                  2.1              1.1              1.9              1.8              2.0              4.7              11.5
3. -'R D DOD"Tct.cl DOD                                  1.6              1.0              0.4              0.2              0.1               0.7              1.6
4   ra. Gr.up DOD/Total DOD                        1 8               1.8              1.9              2.0              2.0              2.9              2.7
5.  IC:D debt service/Total debt service                 4.4              4.5              2.0              1.1               0.6              0.8              0.8
6   Bank Group debt service/Total debt service           4.4              4.5              2.0              1.2               0.7              0.9              1.0
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount              Percent
External Debt (Disbursed only)
1.  l-gD                                                                32.4                  1.6
2.  Ba kLl Group                                                        54.6                  2.8
3.                                 O                          i .- ;mitil.':e-l  38.4        2.0
4.  G ov r rLrn_. .: ts                                                395.1                 20.1
of :w>.ich centrally planned economics                           2.5                  0.1
*.  Sulliers                                                          413.2                  21.0
6.  F nsncial institutions                                           1049.0                  53.3                                                                    Fd
7.  Bords                                                              16.1                   0.8                        
S.  Oilhr                                                                                                                                                            Uq2/  (
9.  1otal public M & LT debt                                         1966.4 -               100.0                                                                    VX
0
1 ,al 6zbt service 1977-81/Total DOD end of 1976:          1.16
1/  Includes debt relief
2i  - statistical discrepancy of US$b4 millior exists with the DOD based on balance of
panrments data (item A.1).



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (AS OF JANUARY 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit       Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ Millions
Number        Year      Borrower       Purpose        Bank      IDA 2/  Undisbursed
Prior to   Congo and  Transport           91.6 1/
June 1960  Otraco       Infrastructure
Two credits fully disbursed                                      11.0
255          1971     ZAIRE       River Transport    -           7.0         1.4
271          1972     ZAIRE       DFC II               -        10.0           0 3/
272          1972     ZAIRE       Education            -         6.5         3.9
292          1972     ZAIRE       Highway II           -        19.0         1.5
398          1974     ZAIRE       Livestock I          -         8.5         3.4
463          1974     ZAIRE       DFC III              -        10.0         1.3
1090          1975     ZAIRE       Gecamines         100.0         -         39.6
536          1975     ZAIRE       Highway III          -        26.0        12.8
571          1975     ZAIRE       Rail-River II        -        26.0        17.1
624          1976     ZAIRE       Education II         -        21.0        20.8
625          1976     ZAIRE       Water Supply         -        21.5        17.2
660          1977     ZAIRE       Cotton I             -         8.0         8.0
697          1977     ZAIRE       Livestock II         -         8.0         8.0
710         1977      ZAIRE       DFC IV               -        10.0        10.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):            191.6      192.5       145.0
- of which has been repaid:           91.6         -           -
TOTAL now outstanding:                 100.0      192.5       145.0
Amount sold:                    54.4
- of which has been repaid 54.4
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA: 2/  100.0         192.5       _
TOTAL undisbursed:                      39.6      105.4       145.0
1/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Undisbursed balance of $22,331.76.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                 Type of          Amount in US$ Millions
Year           Obligor                Business        Loan     Equity      Total
1970     Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)         DFC              -       0.76       0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                       -       0.76       0.76
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                     -       0.76       0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1090      Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project consists of expanding the production facilities of
the state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce
an additional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per
year of cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Project execution is
proceeding well, but the production performance of GECAMINES which accounts
for 95 percent of the country's copper-cobalt and zinc output has been 10
percent below normal levels following an acute shortage of imported spare
parts, materials and supplies. However, despite military events last
year in Shaba, production performance did not deteriorate further and is
slowly recovering as spare parts supplies improve. Due to the backlog in
overburden stripping, Gecamines is not expected to regain its normal output
level of 480,000 tons per annum before the end of 1979. Transport bottlenecks
have not restricted exports so far despite the closing of the railroads
through Angola and Mozambique.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Credit 255      River Transport; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a) re-
habilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e) a feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between
the mining areas of Shaba and Zairian sea-ports. The river agencies have
been set up as autonomous public entities, and all contracts for goods and
services under the credit awarded. Progress continues to be delayed, prin-
cipally in respect to: the completion of two buoy tenders for RVF, both
of which remain undelivered due to the Government's failure to meet required
local currency costs; and in the completion of rehabilitation of navigation
aids on the Kasai River due to a decision to complete the work on force
account. There are still financial constraints and management shortcomings in
the Government agencies executing this project, which delay its completion and
impede the achievement of operational objectives and financial objectives
envisaged. The closing date has been extended to December 29, 1978.
Credit 571      Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing for a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway im-
provements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings for the Regie des
Voies Fluviales; (d) port studies; and (e) engineering studies. Declared
effective in November 1975, the project has made slow progress due to a
combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints. In March
1977 an expatriate Delegue General was appointed to ONATRA. He has estab-
lished control over ONATRA's finances, and is in the process of assembling a
management team of expatriates, most of which are being provided through the
Belgian Government's technical assistance program. Recruitment has been slow
due to lengthy administrative processing but a total of 30 was to be in place
as of the end of March. With the arrival of this personnel, needed emphasis
will be placed on the operational arteas (river transport, port operations,
railway operations), and associated maintenance activities. Efficiency and
productivity in the operational areas - railway, river transport, shipyard, and
ports - is low due principally to long standing managerial deficiencies.
Significant improvement in operational efficiency can be achieved in 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit 292      Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972;
Effective Date: September 11, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The project, financed in parallel by IDA, UNDP, CIDA, FAC and
USAID, consisted of a comprehensive program to strengthen highway admin-
istration and maintenance, and to rehabilitate high-priority roads. All
project components, except some of the rehabilitation works, have been
completed. The main institutional objective of the project, the estab-
lishment of the Office des Routes (OR) as an effective countrywide organi-
zation responsible for highways, was achieved. Contracts have progressed
much slower than anticipated due to the failure or weakening of several
contractors which followed the radicalization and zairianization measures
of 1974; these delays have led to cost increases and some contracts had
to be cancelled or revised. The OR has established a revised completion
plan which provides for the betterment of about 1600 km of roads with project
financing (as against 1,900 km stipulated in the credit agreement). The
project would be completed by mid-1979.
Credit 536      Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19,
1975; Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (OR),
to continue developing the local expertise in highway administration and main-
tenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. It consisted
of the following elements: (a) establishment of a countrywide logistic sup-
port system for highway maintenance; (b) rehabilitation of the Kabinda-Kindu
road (about 600 km); (c) organization of a pilot highway maintenance scheme;
(d) provision of technical assistance to the OR; (e) a highway traffic survey;
and (f) feasibility studies affecting about 1,700 km of roads. The total
cost of the project, estimated at US$40 million including taxes, was to be
financed by IDA, UNDP, the Belgian and French Governments, and the Government
of Zaire. Consultants carried out a feasibility study of the Kikwit-Kananga
road and other consultants have been retained to assist with the establish-
ment of the logistic support system for highway maintenance. The pilot pro-
gram for Bas Zaire is progressing satisfactorily. The maintenance program
has been reduced because of the need for spare parts and fuel which the Gov-
ernment can not finance with its own\funds due to the prevailing shortage
of foreign exchange. The Government asked for modifications in the project
to include inter alia a ferryboat maintenance program, and the necessary
modifications to the Credit Agreement for this project were submitted to the
Executive Directors on March 20, 1978 (IDA/R 78-35).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Credit 271      Second DFC; US$10 Million Credit of September 24, 1971;
Effective Date: February 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Credit 463      Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date: July 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit 710      Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: October 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE) was established
in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a substantial share of its ini-
tial resources through an IFC investment of US$750,000 and an IDA credit of
US$5 million. SOFIDE has provided medium and long term financing for invest-
ments in manufacturing, transport, agriculture and tourism. The first and
second lines of credit are fully disbursed and the third line of credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1978.
Credit 398      Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project is intended to develop three large government ranches
in the Shaba Region, and to help establish a National Livestock Development
Authority (ONDE). The project also provides assistance for training and
studies. Project implementation continues to be slow due mainly to serious
technical and financial management problems. However, ONDE is continuing
its efforts to strengthen its technical management including the recruitment
of expatriate ranch managers and of an Animal Production/Range Management
Adviser, and the preparation of an accounting and budgetary control system.
ONDE has agreed to slow down the cattle purchase program until it improves
its technical and financial performance. The Government has agreed to pro-
posed changes in disbursement categories and percentages to support ONDE's
efforts and to ensure that IDA funds are used to the maximum advantage.
Credit 697      Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project's objectives are to rehabilitate the veterinary and
animal production services in Ituri, establish a training program for staff
and farmers, improve marketing, rural facilities and the Bunia and Kisangani
abattoirs, and provide technical assistance for project management. The
project manager, the financial manager and the infrastructure expert have
arrived. The financing agreement between the Government and ONDE which is
a condition of disbursement of the credit funds is being finalized.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 660      Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 Million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims to help the Zairian Government to rehabilitate
cotton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the
buying, transporting and ginning operations of the National Textile Fiber
Authority (Office National des Fibres Textiles, ONAFITEX) in the project
area. It also includes rehabilitation of the network of roads linking the
production areas. The project is being executed by ONAFITEX and the Office
des Routes. Most of the management team have taken up their duties but a
shortage of vehicles will inhibit their efficacy for the 1977/78 buying sea-
son. Differences of opinions between the project management and the head-
quarters of ONAFITEX are severely hampering the operation of the project
and efforts are continuing to resolve the issues.
Credit 625     Water Supply Project; US$21.5 Million Credit of June 18,
1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976: Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
The project, which is cofinanced by ADB and BADEA, comprises con-
struction and expansion of production and distribution facilities in six
major cities, the rehabilitation of existing facilities, engineering con-
sultant services for the six cities, comprehensive training program and
feasibility studies for additional water supply projects. REGIDESO, the
state corporation responsible for water supply and electricity in Zaire, is
the executing agency. Procurement and construction of works has started in
the six cities but is progressing slowly, mainly because of constraints out-
side the control of the implementing agency (shortage of fuel and building
materials). The works are still expected to be completed by March 30, 1979,
as estimated in the Credit Agreement because the original schedule made an
eight-month allowance for delays during implementation. Total project cost
estimates are to be increased by 5 percent because the bulk of construction
work would be undertaken later than anticipated. The beneficiary is trying
to obtain additional financing from the African Development Bank.
Credit 272      Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971; Effec-
tive Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of construction and rehabilitation of three
teacher training colleges, a demonstration school and four technical sec-
ondary schools, a management study and a survey of manpower requirements.
At the end of 1975, implementation of the project was more than two and
a half years behind schedule and a cost overrun of 150 percent over the
appraisal estimate was likely. Since the cost overruns could not be fi-
nanced on the government budget, the Government asked for a reduction in
the scope of the project and this was approved by the Executive Directors
(memorandum from the President to the Executive Directors of December 15,
1976). Rehabilitation work of one school in Kinshasa has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
At the sites of the other schools, a number of new buildings have been com-
pleted. Construction of the remaining schools is progressing. Equipment
and furniture for one school has been installed and the equipment for the
other schools is expected to be delivered shortly. Delays are being ex-
perienced in the payment of government counterpart funds.
Credit 624      Second Education Project; US$21 Million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is intended to provide facilities for training rural
primary teachers and agricultural technicians. It comprises: (a) construc-
tion, equipping and furnishing of five rural primary teacher training insti-
tutes; (b) rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural technician training
institutes and one higher institute of agricultural studies; (c) a fellowship
program to aid the efficient functioning of the project institutions; (d)
the evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project institutions; (e)
the carrying out of preinvestment studies in preparation for a further educa-
tion project. Some initial delay in project implementation was caused by the
Government insisting that a school design unit within the Department of
Education be used to design the buildings rather than the private consultants
agreed at negotiations. However, this unit is working well and designs for
four of the agricultural institutes are well advanced. Serious problems are
expected,however, due to the shortage of counterpart funds and of construction
materials.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Project Identification
by Bank Consultant                            August 1975
(b) Project Preparation
by Companies with FAO/CP assistance           May 1976
(c)  Appraisal Mission                              January 1977
(d)  Negotiations Completed                         December 1977
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                     July 1978
SECTION II
Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Government and the Companies would submit to the approval of
the Bank and BADEA, by the end of May 1978, the terms of reference of the
feasibility study for the further development of smallholders cultivation.
The feasibility study would be completed by August 1978 and would be reviewed
by the cofinanciers so that implementation of the Pilot Projects could com-
mence before the end of the year.
SECTION III
Special Conditions
(a) Progress of the operations as well as the annual work
programs and budgets of the joint PLZ-CELZA research
and seed multiplication Center scheme would be reviewed
by the Project Coordinating Committee; if one of the
parties were to withdraw its support for the Center,
the Government would cause the other party to provide
all necessary support and funds to assure the continuous
operation of the Center, and it would take appropriate
measures, including importing seeds, to assure the unin-
terrupted production of good quality seeds to meet the
demand of the oil palm sector (para. 52);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(b) Zaire's Investment Code would be applied in respect of
investments to be made under the Project (para. 56);
(c) The Government would allow all participating Companies
to buy the foreign exchange needed to operate their
existing oil palm plantations and installations effi-
ciently, and it would permit the non-Zairian nationals
employed by the Company to remit abroad an adequate
portion of their salaries (para. 59);
(d) The Government and IDA shall exchange views annually
on the level of the internal prices for palm oil in order
to make such changes as recommended by the Project Coor-
dinating Committee on the basis of changes in production
costs and world market prices (para. 67);
(e) The Government would appoint SOFIDE as its agent to
administer the on-lent funds to CCP and Busira Lomami -
an Administration Agreement between the Government,
SOFIDE, CCCE and IDA would be signed before the Credit
becomes effective - (para. 53);
(f) The Government would supervise the implementation
of the Project and, as stipulated under the subsi-
diary loan agreements, cause all Companies to: (i)
adequately staff and operate their social services
in a manner satisfactory to IDA, including basic
health and primary education facilities and supply
stores in order to attract and retain agricultural
workers in sufficient numbers; (ii) maintain their
existing staff at current levels and adequately train
locally recruited staff; (iii) assist the Government
in identifying and preparing smallholder schemes
for oil palm and other crops and to operate pilot
projects where appropriate, to be agreed with IDA;
and (iv) adjust the wages of plantation workers on
the basis of recommendations made by the Project
Coordinating Committee, as deemed necessary to
maintain their labor force at the required level
(para. 55).
Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) onlending subsidiary loan agreements for the IDA
Credit between Government and all three Companies
would have been signed (para 53);



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of
the loan agreements between Government and the African
Development Bank and the Arab Bank for African Devel-
opment and between SOFIDE and the Caisse Centrale for
parts of the Project to be financed by those institutions
(para. 58);
(c)  an administration agreement between Government, the Caisse
Centrale, the Association and SOFIDE with regard to the
administration of the on-lent IDA and Caisse Centrale funds
would have been signed (para 53);
(d) The Government would establish the Project Coordinating
Committee (para. 52); and
(e) The Association has been informed of the specific measures
which have been or will be taken by the Borrower and
the companies in order to permit the companies to recruit
and maintain the labor force necessary to the success of
the project (para. 55).
Special Conditions of Disbursement would be:
(a) detailed proposals, acceptable to IDA, would be sub-
mitted by the Companies and Government for the small-
holders cultivation schemes, and by the Government
for the technical assistance and research training
components of the Project (para 52).






IBRD 72834R
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~ ~ ~~FfA Y 1~
-  f                                                               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,iI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5iro
H  A  U            -~',Z A   )IR-
0Kmngambi
A ~~~UAD



