Report No. PID8467
Project Name                     Albania-Education Reform Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Health, Nutrition and Population
Project ID                       ALPE69120
Borrower                         Republic of Albania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Mr. Et'hem Ruka, Minister of Education and
Science
Durresi Street, No.23, Tirana, Albania
Tirana, Albania
TEL:     (355-42) 348 45/263 07
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           November 29, 1999
Appraisal Date                   December 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives
The proposed project is a US$7 million Sector Investment Credit whose
main objective is to support development of a broad reform strategy for the
education sector, and to continue support to rehabilitation of primary
schools in Albania, including improvement of standards and maintenance.
2.      Description
The TER Project would include measures to reinforce the gains from the on-
going School Rehabilitation Project, as well as investments to support
reforms in the education sector as part of the overall medium-term reform agenda,
plus an evolving set of policy changes to promote a more sustainable fiscal and
financing framework for health. An important part of this strategy will be a
phased series of studies that will be essential to various reforms.
Project components would include:
1) Institutional Strengthening. This component would support
institutional strengthening of the MOES to help the Ministry take charge
of education sector policy design and implementation.     Support would be
given to developing those common function capacities - policy and
strategic planning, financial planning and management, human resources
management, and design of specific educational reform programs.
2) Capitalizing on Achievements under on-going School Rehabilitation
Project. This component would continue support to activities initiated
under the School Rehabilitation Project, and has four subcomponents:
a School rehabilitation. This subcomponent would support rehabilitation



of selected schools nation-wide, as well as development of building
codes, and design and construction standards.
a Education Management Information System. This subcomponent would
provide support to development of a management information system for
the MOES.
a Learning Assessments and Examinations. This subcomponent would
continue to build the capacity of the Center for Educational Assessment
and Examinations.
a Textbooks. This subcomponent would provide support to the
privatization of the textbook industry.
a Project Management. This subcomponent would support establishment of a
Project Implementation Unit to manage the project activities.
3.      Financing
Government of Albania            US$2.5 million
IDA                              US$7.0 million
TOTAL                            US$9.5 million
4.      Implementation
The Project would be implemented over a three year period by the
Ministry of Education and Science (MOES) in close collaboration with related
authorities at the central and local levels. Overall responsibility for
implementation of the Project would rest with the MOES. A Project
Implementation Unit would be established in the MOES to implement the
project.
5.      Sustainability
The Project will build upon and expand the scope of successful
activities carried out under the on-going Schools Rehabilitation Project. The
TER Reform Project will establish a basis for medium- to long-term
sustainability by supporting a rational approach to sector planning and by
professionalizing sector management. Its focus on improvement of existing
institutional framework - both capacity building and rehabilitation aspects -
is not expected to lead to increased recurrent budgetary outlays, per se.
6.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A School Rehabilitation Project for Albania was approved by the World Bank
Board on February 1994. Experience gained and lessons learned from the
project demonstrate the critical importance of context-specific
implementation activities and arrangements, as well as the need for full Government
commitment to the project objectives. The limited achievement in capacity
building aspects under the School Rehabilitation Project points to the
importance of supporting strengthening of planning and management functions
of the Ministry. The school rehabilitation carried out under the School
Rehabilitation Project was of variable quality. To improve overall quality
of construction, the project will support development of standards and oversight
capacity within the Ministry.
7.      Poverty Category
Program of targeted interventions.
-2-



8.      Environmental Aspects
This is a Category B Project. Appropriate safeguards have been built into the
school rehabilitation subcomponent to protect the environment.      The
remainder of the project will focus on financial, management and organizational and
managerial factors, the school rehabilitation sub-component could potentially
have an impact on the environment. To Appropriate Bank guidelines, however,
will be followed with regard to
9.      Program Objective Categories
The Project falls into the Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction and
Human Resources Development (100%).
10.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:          (202) 522-1500
Sue Berryman, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W., H7-115
Washington, DC 20433
TEL:     (202) 473-2359
FAX:     (202) 477-1996
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 10, 1999.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



