Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20019-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9 MILLION(US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
April 18, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Albania and Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchanige Rate Effiective November 1993)
Currency Unit = Albania Lek (XDR)
Lek 100 = US$ I
US$ I = Lek 100
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEDP    Albania Education Development Program
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEAE    Center for Educational Assessments and Examinations
CIS      Center for Information Statistics
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
CW       Civil Works
DC       Direct Contracting
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
ECHO    European Communities Humanitarian Office
EMIS    Education Management Information System
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ER       Education Reform Project
FSL      Fixed-Spread Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross National Product
GPN      General Procurement Notice
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC       Individual Consultants
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IDF      International Development Fund
IIS      International Implementation Specialist
ILO      International Labor Organization
IS       Intemational Shopping
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS      Least Cost Selection
MOES   Ministry of Education and Sciences
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MoLG    Ministry of Local Government
MW       Minor Works
NAEC    The National Assessment and Examination Center
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGOs   Non-Governmental Organizations
NS       National Shopping
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAS      Procurement Adviser Specialist
PCP      Public Contact Point
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMR      Project Management Reports
PMS      Procurement Monitoring System
PTL      Program Team Leader
QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SA       Special Account
SOEs    Statement of Expenditures
SFB      Selection Under a Fixed Budget
SIDP     Second Irrigation and Drainage Project
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SRC      Statistical Report Card
SRCAE   Statistical Report Card on Albania Education
SRCB    School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project
STPH    State Textbook Publishing House
TA       Technical Assistance
TDE      Textbook Distribution Enterprise
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  United Nations Children's and Education Fund
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WB       World Bank
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:    Annette Dixon
Program Team Leader     Sue Berryman



ALBANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..2......................2
1. Project development objective ..2......................2
2. Key performnance indicators ..2......................2
B. Strategic Context ................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ............. .................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy: .................. ...........................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .....................................................9
C. Project Description Summary ............................................................. 11
1. Project components ............................................................             11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: ........................................................ 15
3. Benefits and target population: ............................................................  18
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: ............................................................  19
D. Project Rationale .............................................................                21
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: ............................................................  21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............. ............... 23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: .................................. .......................... 25
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership: ............................................................   27
5. Value added of Bank support in this project: .................. .......................................... 28
E. Summary Project Analysis ...........................                                           28
1. Economic .........................                                                          28
2. Financial ......................... 30
3. Technical: ......................... 30
4. Institutional: ......................... 31
5. Environmental .........................                                                     31
6. Social: .........................                                                           32
7. Safeguard Policies ......................... 34
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................... 34
1. Sustainability: ......................... 34
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: ......................... 36
G. Main Credit Conditions ........................... 37
1. Effectiveness Condition ......................... 37
2. Other .........................                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................... 38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................... 38
- iv -



ANNEXES
Annex    1: Project Design Summary  ............................................................. 39
Annex  2: Project Description .............................................................                                                                 43
Annex   3:  Estimated Project Costs ............................................................. 53
Annex  4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ........................... 54
Annex  5: Financial Summary .............................................................                                                                   61
Annex   6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................................................                                            62
Annex  7: Project Processing Schedule .............................................................                                                         79
Annex    8: Documents in the Project File ..............................................................                                                     80
Annex   9:  Statement of Loans and Credits ............................................................. 82
Annex  10:  Country at a Glance ............................................................. 84
Annex  11:  Environmental Management Plan ............................................................. 86
Annex  12:  Monitoring  Indicators ............................................................. 89
MAP(S)
Albania - IBRD 28467R



ALBANIA
Education Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Human Development Sector Unit
Albania and Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: April 18, 2000                                  Team Leader: Sue Ellen Berryman
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartmann           Sector Manager/Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P069120                                   Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Loan             X   Credit              Guarantee            Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 12.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                  Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee:                                           Service charge: %
Financing Plan:        Source                                Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                      2.88           0.00           2.88
IBRD
IDA                                                             4.77           7.23          12.00
Total:                                                          7.65           7.23          14.88
Borrower: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCES
Ministry of Education and Science
Address: Durresi Street, No.23, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Et' hem Ruka, Minister of Education and Science
Tel: 355 42 348 45/263 07              Fax: 355 42 320 02               Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY             I           2        3               4 4
Annual      1 .8        3.7         4.6          1.9
Cumulative     1.8          5.5        10.1        12.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2000  Expected closing date:  07/31/2004
OCS PAO Fonn- Re March. 2x0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to assist the Ministry of Education and Sciences (MOES) in
planning and managing the delivery of educational services and strengthening its accountability to
stakeholders for that delivery.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outputs:
* A Council of the MOES that functions as a priority-setting and program-designing policy body
* A technical policy analysis/planning unit that is operating as the "technical secretariat" to the Council
* Completion of a reform plan for the sector that meets specified criteria
* Completion of at least one instance of program design that meets specified criteria
* Completion of a first annual reform workplan that meets specified criteria
* MOES staff trained to cost policy alternatives and to assess the fiscal sustainability of reform
packages
* Enhanced statistical and information network to support policy analysis and planning function
* First interpretable assessments of student learning to inform policy makers and stakeholders of the
performance of the sector relative to its basic mission (student learning)
i  Administration of objective examinations for university entry
• Publication of first "Statistical Report Card on Albanian Education" (SRCAE) for stakeholders
• Taking the State Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and Textbook Distribution Enterprise (TDE) to
the point of sale
* Fiscally rationalized and transparent textbook procurement and distribution
* Rehabilitation of schools based on: a) community involvement; b) the development and use
of school and school furniture design and construction standards; c) the application of a transparent
and rationalized model to allocate school rehabilitation financing among districts; and d) the use
of private architectural fms or NGOs for design and quality assurance functions.
Outcomes:
* More effective Ministerial leadership and management of sector improvement
* Enhanced civic support for sectoral reform
* Statistical and information databases that are: a) routinely used for decision-making by policymakers
at the central level of government and by managers in pilot education districts; b) routinely updated;
and c) routinely published in the form of education indicators for the broader public
• More rational and persuasive budgetary processes for the sector
* Increased and better-used international aid resources.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 181610-ALB                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/98
This project is strongly consistent with two strategic priorities of the July, 1998 CAS for Albania.
a) The CAS Progress Report approved by the Board on March 21, 2000, specifically cited the Education
Reform Project (FY00) as one of the vehicles for supporting cornmunity-based activities that build
institutions and social cohesion from the bottom-up.
b) The CAS Progress Report also specifically cites the FY00 Education Sector Review's assessment that
the root problems of Albania's educational system are poor management and accountability, and notes
- 2 -



that these problems will be addressed through the Education Reform Project (FYOO). Also noted in the
CAS Progress Report was that the Education Reform Project would support the first national assessment
of student learning.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Context for education. Albania has a weak central government, and concepts of citizenship and the
rights and obligations of citizens vis-a-vis each other and government are poorly developed. The
institutions for resolving group differences peacefully are weak. As a result, differences between groups
in the civil society, between citizens and government, and between political parties still tend to be
resolved through violence, with blood feuds in the North, periodic widespread riots (1991 and 1997), and
the use of force to try to gain political power (attempted coup against the elected government in 1998).
Sector issues. Albania's education system is functioning, but not well. The point of any country's
education system is learning by students of the skills and knowledge that position them to participate
fully in domestic and regional labor markets and in an increasingly open civic society. If the system fails
at the level of the classroom, it fails overall. The acid test for learning is trends in student learning,
against specified learning standards. Since Albania has neither assessments of learning nor learning
standards, evaluations of inputs to teaching and learning have to be used (see Table 1).
The assessments in Table 1 raise grave questions about the delivery of education services, and these
delivery problems are more pronounced for educationally disadvantaged locations and subgroups.
* The most pervasive inequities in the system are organized around urban versus rural locations.
Rural families, whether poor or non-poor, are subject to greater problems of access and quality.
* Using participation rates in school as an indicator, family poverty constrains participation after basic
education. Poor families, although even willing to borrow money, have trouble paying for their
children's school supplies, especially textbooks, and especially if they have more than one child in
school simultaneously. They cannot finance the private tutoring that is becoming necessary for
their children to gain access to universities. Even if their children do gain a university place, they
cannot afford the formal and informal costs of university.
• Peri-urban areas are expected to become a new source of inequity. They are being peopled by
families migrating from rural areas--especially from the impoverished northeast, whose children
have much weaker academic preparation than their urban counterparts. Urban residents and
teachers regard these migrants with disdain and fear. They are felt to bring with them their
traditions of blood feuds. Their youth are seen as violent, and, if still enrolled in school, as
aggressively disruptive in the classroom.
Table 1. Assessment of Inputs to Teaching and Learning
Required Inputs                               Status of Inputs
Curriculum and learning          1. There are no nationally agreed learning standards.
standards                        2. There is no curricular choice at local or school levels
3. The curriculum lacks courses key to emerging
opportunities, such as foreign languages and computer
science, or if these subjects are taught, they are taught only
abstractly because of a lack of language and computer
laboratories
4. A content analysis of the textbooks shows that the
curriculum still reflects several of the educational and
ideological assumptions of the pre-transition era.
Measures of student learning     These measures do not yet exist.
against learning standards
-3 -



Required Inputs                               Status of Inputs
Textbooks and teacher guides     1. Officially ideology has been stripped out of textbooks.
However, social science and humanities textbooks remain
politicized, with party-related pressures to promote one or
another interpretation of history and society.
2. Textbooks are overburdened with theoretical treatments of
content
3. Material is not presented clearly, reducing the potential for
textbooks to enhance teaching and learning
4. Books are printed on poor quality paper, resulting in
blurred or barely visible illustrations and graphs
5. Poor binding means that books fall apart quickly
6. Poor quality control means that textbooks can be
distributed with whole sections missing
7. There are no teacher guides.
Teaching materials; science,     Vandalism of 1991 and 1997 stripped most schools of the
foreign language, and computer   minimal equipment and learning materials inherited from the
equipment and laboratories;      pre-transition period. In general, these goods have not been
libraries                        replaced or upgraded.
Schools with structural integrity,    Initially poor quality construction, vandalism of 1991 and
basic sanitary facilities, sufficient   1997, lack of maintenance, and interrupted electricity and
warmth in winter, adequate       water supplies have left many schools damaged, often
school furniture.                without doors or windows, and with broken furniture, no
heat, non-functioning toilets, or, especially in rural areas,
with no toilets at all. These problems directly affect the
learning process--for example, in schools with no heat or
windows, parents tend to keep children at home during the
coldest days.
Skilled and knowledgeable        1. Students report memorization and recollection of facts, not
teachers                         inquiry, as the modal pedagogy. A survey of Albanian eighth
grade students found that of the average of 2.9 hours spent
per day on homework, almost 50 percent was spent on
memorization.
2. Students report that teachers cannot be questioned. They
find both older and younger teachers authoritarian and harsh
and are afraid of them.
3. There is virtually no system of in-service training.
4. Teachers are neither hired nor promoted on the basis of
assessments of their subject matter knowledge and teaching
practice.
5. Although data for 1995/96-1997/98 show no decline in the
percent of teachers with higher education, 22 percent of
teachers at all levels are unqualified. At the lower secondary
level this percent increases to 33.
-4 -



Table 1. Assessment of Inputs to Teaching and Learning (cont.)
Required Inputs                                 Status of Inputs
Motivated teachers               1. Teacher salaries are below the already low average public sector
wage, having declined from being 35 percent above the average
public wage at the transition. Salaries today do not cover the
teacher's living expenses.
2. In terms of teachers' annual instructional load, it is comparable
to that of counterparts in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, but other
working conditions are atrocious. Teachers have to work with
acute shortages of teaching materials and support services and in
schools that are often unheated, without toilets, and sometimes
structurally dangerous.
3. Consequences:
. Low salaries undermine teachers' status and authority in the
community
. Qualified teachers emigrate abroad or start businesses
. Teachers take second or third jobs, such as selling chewing
gum. Teachers, especially of mathematics, chernistry, biology,
physics, and foreign languages at the upper secondary level,
engage increasingly in private tutoring at 300-500 lek/hour,
sometimes of students in their own classes. In the latter cases,
parents often report threats that if they do not hire the teacher for
private lessons, their child will not get a good grade.
. Without data on teacher accessions and separations, it is not
known if a process of "adverse selection" has started for the
teaching force.
Capable school director          1. Appointments are politicized. The party in power--sometimes
(headmaster/mnistress)           even the Minister of Education in power--may appoint school
directors.
2. School directors have no budget, even for minor repairs or for
paying to get goods transported to the school.
3. School directors have no power to hire or fire teachers. The
District Education Offices usually appoint teachers without
consulting school heads.
4. Directors usually have no training to equip them for their
positions.
Classes of manageable size       The average class size is reasonable.
Protection of the education      1. Teachers are threatened with violence or their own children's
system from violence             employment opportunities are threatened unless they give
particular students good grades
2. Schools have hired guards and built walls around the school to
protect students from incursions by unemployed youth from
neighboring villages.
3. Parents do not let boys and girls attend evening events out of
fear of kidnapping and rape of their daughters and their sons'
exposure to weapons and criminal gangs.
5-



Required Inputs                                          Status of Inputs
Students attend school                 1. The average years of school that an Albanian child can expect to
complete is 9.4 years, in contrast to the average for OECD
countries of 15.4 years.
2. Enrollments are declining at all pre-tertiary levels, especially in
upper secondary vocationalltechnical education. Between 1989
and 1998 pre-school enrollments declined from 57 to 36 percent;
basic education, from 103 to 92 percent; upper secondary, from 76
to 41 percent. Enrollments in tertiary education are stable, but
considerably below the average enrollment rate for the Europe and
Central Asia (ECA) region (7 versus 16 percent). Reasons:
. Low quality education. Studies show that when teachers are
good, attendance is high, regardless of the geographic location of
the school. Low educational quality increases the attractiveness of
alternative uses of time, such as work.
. Poor preparation in feeder schools, with the result that students
are overwhelmed at the next educational level and drop out
. Significantly reduced supply of vocational/ technical training
and irrelevance of some of the offerings still available
. Employment opportunities
. Parents' fears of violence against sons and daughters
. Structurally unsafe, unsanitary, and unheated schools
. Costs for university that poorer families cannot afford
Sources. Geremia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec. "Efficiency, Equity, and the Fiscal Inpact of Education in Albania." Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, 1999; Nora Dudwick and Helen Shariari. "Education in Albania: Changing Attitudes and Expectations." Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, December, 1999; Clarissa De Waal. Draft reports on raral education in Mirdita; Mansoora Rashid and Vajeera Dorabawila.
"Poverty, the Labor Market, and Public Programs: Household Welfare in Pre-Crisis Albania." Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, December,
1999; Sue E. Berryman. "Sector Strategy for Albania Education: Briefing Note." Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, December, 1999; Yael
Duthilleul, Artan Hoxha, Stavri Llambi, linda Gjermani, Ilir Kokomori, and Lida Kita. "Albania: Issues and Challenges in Education
Governance." Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, November, 1999.
The root causes of the problems with Albanian education are its management, financing, and its
governance and accountability.
Management. During the first post-transition decade, the MOES made some efforts to improve the
system. However, in the main these efforts did not suceed. For example, early attempts to revamp the
curriculum and teacher training did not get beyond (or even to) the design stage. The fact is that the
managers of the sector have been unable to take sustained action to remedy problems that are under the
control of the MOES. Individual leaders and staff of the MOES have recognized and struggled to
mitigate many of these difficulties. However, the MOES itself is not structured to design, implement,
and sustain improvement.
The Ministry lacks the policy analysis, policy planning, budget management, and consultative processes
required to construct a strategy that will be credible to those it affects, to those who have to implement it,
and to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), donors, and the Bank that might fund its implementation. The
Ministry is small and understaffed. At both central and district levels it has suffered substantial staff
turnover. Ministers change frequently in many countries, and Albania is no exception, having had
several ministers in 8 years. However, in Albania the practice has been for a new minister to fire staff
down through the technical level. As a result, the Ministry has lost institutional memory, donor- or Bank-
financed investments in staff training, and credibility with donors. As part of the civil service, the
Ministry cannot pay salaries that attract and retain scarce skills or that legitimate efforts to hold staff
accountable for their performance. The Ministry's budgeting office does not have the skills to estimate
initial and downstream costs of policy alternatives. The lack of these skills not only makes it difficult for
the Ministry's leaders to rationalize the use of their resources, but reduces the credibility of this line
ministry with the Ministry of Finance. Although a good school mapping data base has now been
- 6 -



completed, the Ministry lacks important data--or reasonable access to the data that exist--about the sector
on which policy analyses and planning must rest.
As a result, the Ministry has been unable to lead and implement reform of the sector. "Reform" has
amounted to scattered, poorly linked projects that add up to substantially less than the sum of their parts
and that fail to represent a coherent attack on the sector's problems. The sector has been more vulnerable
to donor preferences than is healthy.
Financing. As a percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), financing of the sector has been declining
since 1993, with 1999 being 2.6 percent and the estimated budget for 2000 being 2.7 percent. It had been
increasing as a percent of total public expenditure across the decade. However, in 1998 it declined to 9.8
percent of total public expenditure. Expenditure per student declined 21 percent in real terms between
1990 and 1998. Even if differences in enrollment patterns between OECD countries and Albania are
taken into account, the 1998 expenditure on education in Albania as a percent of total public expenditures
is still substantially below the average for OECD countries.
The recurrent, not the investment, budget has absorbed the declines in total education expenditures. In
1998, wage expenditures constituted 83 percent of the total recurrent budget, 8 percentage points more
than the average for OECD countries. This left 17 percent of the recurrent budget to cover all other costs
of running the system, such as utilities, textbooks, teaching materials, school maintenance, scholarships,
welfare services, and in-service teacher training. The high percent going to staff salaries in Albania
reflects, not an inefficient use of staff resources, but a recurrent cost budget that is very constrained.
First, staff resources are used intensively. Relatively high student/teacher ratios and a very low percent
of non-teaching staff place the total staff in the system as a percent of the total employed population well
below the average for the OECD countries. Second, staff salaries are very low, having declined for those
with 15 years of experience from 35 percent above the average public sector wage in 1989 to 8 percent
below the average public sector wage in 1997.
A tight budget constraint forces policymakers to reduce spending on "unprotected" or "not immediately
necessary" budget lines--for example, teachers' in-service training. However, in Albania's
circumstances a tight budget constraint does not represent savings. It represents a transfer of costs:
*  to future generations--for example, low maintenance expenditures translate into high future
rehabilitation costs that even today are estimated at $270 million; and
*  to current generations, in terms of greater private financing of education and in the quality and
quantity of education available to students. Poor and rural students, especially, suffer under
conditions of tight budget constraints.
Governance and accountability. It will take years to build accountability of the public education sector
to a civic society because both sides of the accountability equation--the state and the civic society--are
weak. However, even at this embryonic stage, early building blocks of accountability are not yet put
into place. For example, beneficiaries and other players in the civic society, not just the public managers
of the sector, need and do not yet have trustworthy data for judging the performance of the sector. Since
the Ministry is not well-equipped to construct a reform strategy for the education sector, it cannot realize
opportunities to involve different groups in the society in such an exercise. A civil service with the
professional norms and pay levels sufficient to work for the public weal depends on civil service reform.
Sectoral studies show the following:
V  Stakeholders largely view schools as institutions divorced from the community and functioning
primarily as agents of the state. Not only was it the socialist regime that fully instituted the public school
system throughout the country, but the state, through the MOES, continues to exert almost full control
over most aspects of education. The workings of the education system exemplify the polarization and
politicization of Albanian society. Thus, power shifts in Tirana result in personnel changes all the way
down to the level of school principals, with a resulting disruption of the education process.
- 7 -



*  In this centralized structure, school "collectives," principals, and teachers have little autonomy or
authority. Principals, most of whom have had no specialized training for their role, have little authority
beyond day-to-day management. They do not know their school budget, and have virtually no input into
curriculum design or staffing decisions. Teaching staff have little input into curriculum, content of
courses, or choice of textbooks.
*  Most school-level stakeholders feel that they have very little voice in the education process. They
interpret school-related decisions and actions as the result of personalistic relationships and
"connections". They are convinced that all principals and many teachers are selected on the basis of
party or social group affiliation, not professional qualifications.
*  Parents also lack voice in the education system. They are not expected to exert any influence over
curriculum or course content--nor do they feel that they have the right to do so. At most, parents try to
intervene individually to insure fair (or special) treatment for their own children, and to help raise funds.
Parents' lack of voice is particularly marked in rural areas, where parents tend to be less educated,
encounter disdainful attitudes from the teaching staff, find it difficult to come to school during working
hours, and may be less inclined to see the value of education for their children. Although urban, educated
and more prosperous parents have more choice--where to enroll their child, to pay for private lessons, to
informally influence teachers' treatment of their children--even they have little voice in the education
process itself.
*  Schools do not serve any function in the community, except for educating the youth. Although
schools serve as polling stations, in only a few cases do schools engage with the neighborhoods in which
they are located. The only exception, noted in Shkodra and several other communities, occurred during
the Kosovo refugee crisis, when schools became collection centers for assistance.
*  The Albanian social structure makes it difficult to mobilize people to pursue common interests.
Social relationships in Albania are structured around families, and the non-kin relationships that structure
communities and civil society in other countries are relatively underdeveloped. Common acquaintance,
rather than shared interests or activities, is used to define "community". Given the familial basis for
social relationships and the history of forced "cooperation" during the socialist period, Albanians are
reluctant to combine forces to demand voice or to work together on joint projects, such as cleaning the
area around the school or making playgrounds for the children.
Government priorities. The priorities of the Ministry of Education and Sciences include:
a)   Rebuilding a viable alternative to academic secondary education for occupationally-oriented
students, thus reversing enrollment declines at the upper secondary level;
b)   Improving the quality of pre-tertiary education;
c)   Arresting the physical decay of the schools and making sure that other fundamental inputs required
by the sector are financed;
d)   Improving the governance and management of the system, including participating as a pilot line
ministry in Albania's civil service reform; and
e)   Modernizing tertiary education by improving the quality of programs, faculty, and infrastructure.
At a very general level, the MOES priorities fit the reform needs of the sector. For example, the Minister
of Education formally asked and was granted approval by the Cabinet of Ministers to include the MOES
as a pilot ministry in the Bank-financed civil service reform. However, these priorities are simply a list.
They have not been translated into a feasible strategy around which the support of stakeholders and
donors can be built. The Ministry leadership is trying to create a credible strategy and is looking to the
Education Reform (ER) project to support this process.
-8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Education Reform (ER) focuses on these issues:
* increasing the planning and managerial capacities that the Ministry needs to set reform priorities for
the sector and to design and implement programs for improving the sector;
• improving the financial position of the sector and its budget management capacities;
* rehabilitating schools in order to pay down Albania's deferred debt and procuring textbooks in ways
that improve the sustainability and transparency of textbook financing; and
• addressing these three issues in ways that begin to lay the foundations for the accountability of the
state to the civil society for the delivery of educational services.
Strategic choices. The service delivery problems detailed in Table 1 argue powerfully for focusing the
project on particular locations (e.g., rural areas), subgroups (e.g., poor students), or inputs, such as
improving the curriculum, establishing an in-service teacher training system, or expanding
vocationaltechnical education at the upper secondary level. However, the Bank's and donors' past
experiences have shown that the sector's very weak management and budgeting capacities and virtually
missing governance/accountability nullify efforts to improve teaching and learning for students, whether
advantaged or disadvantaged. For example, the MOES has lacked an organizational arrangement that
brings policymakers together for purposes of priority-setting and program design, such as curricular
reform. Problems of educational quality and access have to be handled through an attack on the sector's
capacity to frame and implement improvement. Thus, although the project includes school rehabilitation
and textbook procurement, these components are included less for their obvious benefits for teaching and
learning than for the opportunities they present for addressing problems of financing (including deferred
debt reduction), management, and accountability.
Table 2 shows the connections between the sector's issues and project activities.
Table 2. Relationships between Sector Issues and Project Activities
Issue                                Project Activity
Governance         Support the development of the Council of the MOES, consisting of
department directors and the deputy ministers, as a priority-setting,
strategy-devising, and program-developing body that will forward
recommendations to the Minister.
Management         Planning and implementation:
1. Support the development of a permanent policy analysis and planning
unit in the MOES that acts as the technical secretariat to the Council of the
MOES and that monitors the implementation of reform programs
2. Help develop the capacity of the MOES to cost policy alternatives and
assess the fiscal sustainability of alternative program initiatives.
3. Reserve a share of Bank funding for the MOES to implement initiatives
that flow from a sector strategy acceptable to IDA and that meet specified
design criteria.
4. Where possible, use the Bank-supported civil service reform to help
create a more efficient functional organization within the MOES, a more
rational distribution of functions between levels of government, and new
rules for hiring and firing the technical cadre.
9-



Issue                                    Project Activity
Data and statistical support to planning:
1. Institutionalize the use of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) in the Ministry, gradually adding applications, extending
data bases, and piloting the system's use in 2-3 education districts.
2. Support the Center for Educational Assessment and Examinations
(CEAE) to conduct the first interpretable assessment of student learning to
give policymakers feedback on the sector's performance of its basic
mission.
Financing            1. Increase the efficiency with which resources are used and the credibility
of the MOES with the MOF by increasing the ability of the MOES to cost
out policy alternatives and their fiscal sustainability.
2. Reduce the deferred debt for school rehabilitation.
3. Reduce costs of new school construction and future maintenance and
rehabilitation' by:
a) developing and using building and design guidelines and specifications
for bills of quantities; and
b) using private architectural/engineering firms or NGOs to provide design
services, write tendering documents, and oversee construction quality.
4. Reduce the costs and increase the quality of textbooks by procuring
them through international competitive bidding, thus being able to reduce
or elimninate the current Government textbook subsidy andlor to reduce the
textbook price to parents.
5. Reduce the costs and increase the quality of textbook publishing by
bringing the STPH to the point of sale and by increasing the percent of
new textbook titles that are competitively bid (internationally bid where
realistic).
6. Increase the efficiency of textbook distribution by bringing the TDE to
the point of sale.
Accountability       1. Support the Council of MOES in using participatory processes for
arriving at reform priorities and programs, especially for those such as
curricular reform whose design and implementation will benefit from
extensive consultation with teachers, families, and other stakeholders.
2. Publish learning assessment results and other data from the EMIS in the
form of education indicators.
3. By increasing the ability of the MOES to cost out policy alternatives and
their fiscal sustainability, increase the efficiency with which public money
is used.
4. Support the CEAE to develop and administer objective examinations for
university entry that will reduce the corruption now surrounding university
entry.
5. Allocate school rehabilitation funds to districts equitably, using a model
based on the school mapping data base.
6. Use school rehabilitation activities to involve communities in their
schools.
7. Provide beneficiaries with higher quality textbooks that cost the state
less.
8. Create the opportunity to revisit the pricing of textbooks for parents.
The term "maintenance" refers to preventive repairs to keep a new or rehabilitated facility from deteriorating. The term
"rehabilitation" refers to repairing a seriously damaged facility.
- 10-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has five components. The first three are closely related, with components 2 and 3 (Education
Management Information System and Assessments and Examinations) being designed to support
component 1 (policy design, management, and educational improvement). Components 2-5 build on or
extend work started in the first IDA-financed project, the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building
Project.
1. Policy Design, Management, and Improvement of the Education System
2. Education Management Information System
3. Assessments and Examinations
4. School Rehabilitation
5. Textbooks
1. Policy Design/Management. This component is an institution-building and organizational reform
component. It will be managed by the Council of the MOES. It will fund the strengthening of the
generic functions required for the Ministry to improve the sector: policy analysis and strategic planning,
financial planning and management, human resource management, and the design, implementation, and
monitoring of specific educational reform programs.
The point of this component is not to strengthen these generic functions per se. The point is to support
better education. To achieve this objective, the component will:
* Support the strengthening of the basic functions that all ministries have to carry out, such as policy
analysis, planning, financial planning and management, and the management of human resources.
This sub-component supports the establishment of the Council of the Ministry of Education and
Sciences to set sector strategy and priorities and of a technical unit to act as a technical secretariat to
the Council. The technical secretariat will conduct needed policy, planning, and financial analyses.
0 Support the MOES and its associated units, such as the Pedagogical Institute (IPS), in identifying
priority needs for programs to improve the quality of education, establishing policy frameworks for
the design of such programs, analyzing their costs, and recommending actions needed to implement
them.
* Provide funds to start to implement programs to improve the quality and administration of
education. These funds would finance programs that meet agreed criteria. The criteria for an eligible
program will be that the MOES and the World Bank agree that the program is of high priority in
accordance with the MOES strategy, that it has been costed, that its cost effectiveness has been shown
to be satisfactory, that a satisfactory action plan exists showing how and by whom the program is to
be implemented, and that the other resources needed for program implementation are available.
In addition, funding will be provided for the Project Implementation Unit (PIUJ) to manage the defined
activities of the project. PIU staff, comprising the Project Director, Financial Officer, Procurement
Officer, Architect/Engineer, and Interpreter/Assistant, will be financed as local consultants. Additional
funding will be provided for necessary office refurbishment and equipping, technical expertise for project
management (on a declining basis), office supplies and staff training.
The key outputs are: a) the establishment of a Council of the MOES that functions as a priority-setting and
program-designing policy body; b) the establishment of a technical policy analysis and planning unit
- 11 -



that, as technical secretariat, supports the Council; c) development of financial analysis skills and tools
in the technical secretariat; d) completion of a reform plan for the sector that meets specified criteria; e)
completion of at least one instance of a program design that meets specified criteria; f) a first annual
reform workplan that meets specified criteria; and g) establishment of a PIU to manage the
implementation of the project.
2. Education Management Information System (EMIS). This component is an institution-strengthening
component. It builds on the school mapping data base completed under the Bank's first education project
in Albania and will be managed by a newly-established department within the MOES, the Center for
Information and Statistics (CIS). It will support a management information system that will ultimately
link all branches of the Ministry, including district offices and universities. It builds on the hardware and
electronic network capacities funded by the Italians. Under ER, establishing the EMIS will proceed very
gradually, on a step-by-step basis, with an initial creation of a Local Area Network for the Ministry,
testing the system with basic software applications, linking on a pilot basis 2-3 District Education Offices,
and training of staff at both levels of government.
The key outputs are: a) a simple EMIS that can be easily extended in terms of data, applications, and
users, that has been introduced and tested in at least two pilot education district offices, and that is
used routinely by policymakers and managers at Ministerial and district levels; and b) publication of
the first "Statistical Report Card on Albanian Education" (SRCAE) for stakeholders.
3. Assessments and Examinations (Assessment/Examinations). This component is an institution-
building and policy reform component and builds on activities begun under the Bank's first education
project in Albania. It will be managed by the Center for Educational Assessment and Examinations
(CEAE), an agency under the auspices of the MOES. International experience shows that it takes
about five years to build a fully competent learning assessment and examinations center. Thus, the
component is designed to reach selected targets by the end of ER and additional ones under any
follow-on project. Under ER, the component will fund the following activities:
Examinations
•  Improve the current examinations administered at grades 8 and 12. The CEAE currently is not
involved in setting these exarninations, which accounts for their low quality and lack of public
credibility.
•  Continue the development and administration of high quality and fair entrance examinations to
university.
Assessments
• Using the curriculum, define the learning performance standards that will be assessed.
* Carry out a sample-based assessment for grade 4 in three subjects that will provide baseline data
for monitoring performance trends.
The key outputs are: a) creating and administering a university entrance examination that meets
international standards for quality and fairness; b) conducting and analyzing the results of a national
grade 4 learning assessment in Albanian language, mathematics, and science and publishing these
results; and c) preparing for activities to be completed under a follow-on project, including
administering national examinations for grades 8 and 12 and developing diagnostic assessment
materials for teachers to use in the classroom.
4. School Rehabilitation. This component is a physical goods, policy reform, and debt reduction
component. It funds: a) the development of building and design guidelines and specifications of bills
of quantities for schools and furniture; and b) the rehabilitation of about 35,000 school places (about
5,500 schools) at an average estimated cost of $200 per school place.
- 12 -



The Directorate of Investment of the MOES will manage the development of the guidelines and their
enforcement in all rehabilitation and new construction activities, whether funded by Government,
donors, or the World Bank. The Project Implementation Unit will manage the rehabilitation of
schools through competed contracts with two types of firms: a) architectural/engineering firms or
NGOs for the following services: design, bidding documents for procuring construction services,
community consultation and participation, and quality oversight of construction; and b) construction
firms. Schools will be selected for rehabilitation on the basis of criteria for allocating funds between
districts and within districts. The Directorate of Investment will allocate project funds among the 37
districts by using the school mapping data base to assure equitable distribution. District education
offices now rank-order priorities for rehabilitating schools within their districts on reasonably
transparent and defensible grounds. Project funds will be allocated within districts according to each
district's rank-order.
The key outputs for this component are: a) building and design guidelines and specifications of bills
of quantities for schools and furniture are developed; b) 35,000 school places are rehabilitated, using
the new design guidelines and specifications; c) a transparent and rationalized model to allocate
school rehabilitation financing among districts is applied; d) private architectural firms or NGOs are
used for design and quality assurance functions; and e) communities participate in the rehabilitation
of the schools and their grounds in limited ways.
5. Textbooks. This component is a policy reform and physical goods component and will be managed
by the MOES. Registering the State Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and Textbook Distribution
Enterprise (TDE) as joint stock companies is a condition of project effectiveness. In addition, in the
Legal Agreement for the project, there is a dated covenant (October 31, 2000) by which a detailed
action plan for bringing the two state enterprises to the point of sale shall be furnished to IDA. The
component funds: a) procuring textbooks, using international competitive bidding to reduce the costs
and increase the quality of the textbooks being purchased by Govermnent; and b) publishing
textbooks for the new curricula in vocationaltechnical education as a trial for privatizing publishing.
The key outputs for this component are: a) STPH and TDE brought to the point of sale; b) technical
assistance for the STPH and TDE and equipment for the STPH to create a level playing field during
the privatization process; c) contracts for publishing vocational/technical education textbooks
transparently competed; d) textbooks procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB); and
e) on the basis of savings realized through ICB, revisiting the percent of total textbook costs paid by
Government versus parents.
- 13 -



1. Policy Design/Management.        Institutional       3.59       24.1       3.37       28.1
Support institutional strengthening of   Development
the MOES to help the Ministry
improve the sector's policy design
and implementation: (a) targeted
policy advice and training would be
provided; (b) the statistical and
information data bases for the sector
would be expanded to support
planning and priority setting and to
publish a "Statistical Report Card on
Albania Education" (SRCAE) for the
broad public; (c) the accounting
department would be converted to a
budgeting department; (d) a Project
Implementation Unit would be
established in MOES to manage the
project (minor civil works, office
equipment and materials, technical
assistance and training).
2. EMIS. Support for establishment of  Institutional    0.80         5.4      0.63         5.2
a management information system for   Development
MOES. Software applications will be
developed, and staff trained (minor
refurbishment, equipment, technical
assistance and training).
3. Assessment/Examinations. Build    Institutional      0.57         3.8      0.43        3.6
capacity of CEAE (minor             Development
refurbishment, office equipment,
technical assistance, training).
4. School Rehabilitation.           Primary             7.30        49.1      5.40       45.0
Selected schools will be rehabilitated,   Education
based on criteria determined by
MOES. Building codes, design
standards and specifications for bills
of quantity will be developed for civil
works and school furniture (civil
works, school furniture, technical
assistance).
5. Textbooks. Bring to the point of  Privatization      2.62        17.6      2.17        18.1
sale the State Textbook Publishing
House and the Textbook Distribution
Enterprise. Support raising standard
for textbook printing (Technical
assistance, training), and publishing
and printing of textbooks.
Total Project Costs                     14.88      100.0     12.00       100.0
Total Financing Required                      14.88      100.0      12.00      100.0
- 14 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
"Key policy and institutional reforms" is interpreted as changes in the rules of the game that the
project seeks. For each component, the table below shows the key policy and institutional reforms
sought and the incentives marshalled or planned to sustain these reforms. Note that the policy
changes sought under the first component (policy design/management) are related to the civil service
reform supported by the Bank. ER is designed to initiate these changes independent of the civil
service reform, and it is expected that any follow-on project will be structured to reinforce them.
However, even a modestly successful civil service reform will help to "lock in" or institutionalize
these reforms.
Policy and Institutional Reforms Sou ght
Component            Policy/Institutional Reforms Sought         Incentives to Sustain Reforms
Policy design/    A Council of the MOES assumes the functions of:  The MOF, WB, and, increasingly,
management        a) priority-setting; b) program design; and c)  donors begin to tie new funding to
approving strategic plans and annual workplans.    the creation of strategic plans and
annual work plans for which the
Council is ultimately responsible.
A policy analysis and planning unit is created that   Performance pressures on the
operates as technical secretariat to Council of  Council create the need for the
MOES.                                         services of a technical secretariat.
Civil service reform "locks in"
positions for these functions as part
of the technical cadre of the civil
service. As such, occupants are
protected from political changes, as
well as being hired on merit and
compensated on the new civil service
salary scale.
The sector strategy and annual workplans to   1. The MOF, WB and, increasingly,
improve the sector are based on:              donors tie new funding to the
creation of strategic plans and annual
1. statistical analyses relevant to the selection of    work plans that meet these criteria
priorities;                                   2. ER supports building the
2. estimated initial and recurrent costs of policy  capacities that the MOES needs to
alternatives and fiscal sustainability of the total  meet criteria (1), (2), and (3):
reform program;                               a. extending the EMIS data base and
3. analyses of the effects on equity;         assessing student learning; and
4. consultations with: (a) relevant line offices  b. strengthening the budget planning
within the MOES; (b) other ministries germane to   and management functions of the
the issue; (c) relevant levels of Government; and    MOES
(d) private sector stakeholders and beneficiaries;    c. supporting a technical policy
and                                           analysis and planning unit
5. reasonable implementation plans.           3. ER reserves a share of the Credit
for the MOES to implement
initiatives that flow from strategic
priorities and that meet certain design
criteria
- 15 -



Component            Policy/lnstitutional Reforms Sought        Incentives to Sustain Reforms
4. Any follow-on project may be
designed as an Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) with a fairly long
time frame. If so, it can make
tranches for implementing annual
workplans contingent on cost
analyses.
5. ER encourages consultations
horizontally across the line
departments of the MOES by
supporting the Council of the MOES
6. ER is a 4 year project. If any
follow-on project is designed as an
APL, it will have a fairly long time
frame. Between the two projects, the
time period should be sufficient to
institutionalize new patterns of
consultation and participation, in part
because players should begin to
expect and demand their inclusion in
major planning activities.
The Council of the MOES oversees the design of   ER reserves a share of the Credit for
educational initiatives that meet certain criteria:    the MOES to implement initiatives
that flow from strategic priorities and
1. alternative ways to achieve a particular  that meet these design criteria
strategic objective are explicitly considered
2. the alternative selected is the simplest to
implement and most cost-effective in meeting the
objective
3. a workplan to implement the initiative has to
have been developed, including the outputs
sought from the activity.
Policymakers use the strategy to lead reform of  MOF, WB, and, increasingly, donors
the sector.                                   invest in components in a credible
strategy.
Sector perseveres with implementing the reform  1. Broad consultation during the
strategy through changes in top leadership.  planning process creates at least
modest ownership of the reform
strategy that constrains the effects of
changes in the sector's top
leadership.
2. WB and donors make their
investments contingent on reasonable
continuity of the reform.
3. Civil service reform begins to
protect technical policy
analysis/planning unit from turnover
in leadership.
-16-



Component            Policy/Institutional Reforms Sought        Incentives to Sustain Reforms
EMIS              1. Routine use of EMIS by policymakers and    Demand for current, policy-relevant
sector staff to manage planning and          data is the key to a usable and high
implementation of sector improvement         quality EMIS.
2. Routine updating and improvement of the    1. MOF, WB and, increasingly,
EMIS.                                        donors require reasonably current
3. Annual or biennial publication of "Statistical  data to support budget and
Report Card on Albanian Education" (SRCAE).    investment requests.
2. In response to the MOF and
international funders' requirements,
MOES policymakers, such as the
Council of the MOES, pressure
appropriate players in the sector to
improve and extend the EMIS.
3. Public sector and private
stakeholders and beneficiaries
gradually come to demand the
"SRCAE" .
Assessments/      University faculties use results of objective  Publication of statistical relationship
Examinations      national examinations as one basis for accepting    between applicant performance on
or rejecting applicants to university.       entrance examinations and
acceptance to university by faculty
and university.
Policymakers increase their focus on teaching and   Publication of results of learning
learning.                                    assessments in "SRCAE" and in the
Albanian press.
School            MOES allocates rehabilitation funds transparently   Encourage district education offices
Rehabilitation    among 37 districts by using an allocation model    and relevant representatives of
based on the school mapping data base.       communes and municipalities to
demand the transparent application
of the allocation model to distribute
Government and donor rehabilitation
funds by holding a workshop on the
allocation model.
The MOES and district offices use newly      1. WB and donors require
established building and design guidelines and  Govemment to use these guidelines
specifications for bills of quantity for schools and   in all internationally-funded
school furniture in tendering for all fiew   construction and rehabilitation
construction, rehabilitation, maintenance, and  activities.
furnishing services.                         2. The guideline-setting exercise
minimizes costs by analyzing the
tradeoffs between initial investment
and recurrent costs and by realizing
economy of scale savings with
uniform standards for building
elements. The cost implications of
these guidelines are briefed to the
MOF.
Design and quality oversight of rehabilitation are    Architectural/engineering firms and
privatized through competitive tendering for  NGOs will be selected through
architectural/engineering or NGO services.   competitive bidding that will take
__________________ _______________________________________________account of their past performance.
- 17 -



Component           Policy/lnstitutional Reforms Sought        Incentives to Sustain Reforms
Communities are routinely involved in design  1. The tendering process for
decisions for new and rehabilitated schools.  architectural/engineering firms and
NGOs includes the requirement that
the winning firm consult with the
community for each school listed in
the bid.
2. MOES Buildings Department
surveys these communities to assess
their satisfaction with their
involvement in the design activities.
Textbooks         Bring STPH and TDE to point of sale.         1. Formation of both enterprises as
joint stock companies is a condition
of project effectiveness for ER.
2. Submission to IDA of detailed
action plans to take STPH and TDE
to point of sale is a dated covenant in
the legal agreement for ER.
3. Transparent competition for
publishing services to write new
textbooks for new
vocational/technical curriculum.
Use of international competitive bidding to  Publication in Albanian press of cost
procure textbook printing services.          savings and textbook quality benefits
of using ICB.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project Benefits and Target Populations
Component                        Benefits                           Target Population
PolicyDesign]    An established process for setting priorities,  Council of Ministers, MOES, other
Management       designing programs, and monitoring program    stakeholders
implementation
Better use of public funds, WB credits, and donor   All stakeholders, including
grants because policies are costed and       international funders
investments occur within a more coherent reform
framework.
Greater willingness of MOF, donors, and multi-    All stakeholders
national financial institutions to invest in the
sector or to protect it fiscally during adjustment
operations.
Better implementation of reform plans because  All stakeholders
relevant players and beneficiaries participate in
their design.
Modestly greater civic trust in Government   Civic society
because representatives of the civil society are
included in framing the sector strategy.
- 18 -



Component                        Benefits                            Target Population
Greater accountability of Government to the  Civic society
society because the planning process requires
better data on the performance of the system that
is then published.
EMIS              Better and more accessible information on the  Education and other policymakers
status and performance of the sector for policy  and managers; civic society
planning, management, and accountability
purposes.
Assessments!      More objective and potentially less corruptible  Students and their families; civic
Examinations      grounds for entry into university.            society
Interpretable information on students' learning  All stakeholders, especially students
performances and therefore ability to monitor the
quality of the teaching and learning process
School            Healthier and safer schools.                  Students and teachers in rehabilitated
Rehabilitation                                                 schools
Savings realized by rehabilitating schools before    Taxpayers, MOF
more extensive and expensive damage occurs.
Better value for money by introducing uniform  Local communities, students,
design, construction, and school furniture   teachers, taxpayers, MOF
guidelines and more stringent oversight of
construction quality.
More accountability of central to local      Local communities
governments by using equitable criteria for
allocating funds for new construction and
rehabilitation among districts.
Modestly greater civic trust in government by  Local communities
including local communities in design decisions
about new and rehabilitated schools.
Textbooks         Cheaper and higher quality textbook services:  Taxpayers, MOF, students, teachers,
publishing, printing, and distribution.      and parents
Procurement of existing textbooks.           Students, parents, and teachers
Publishing of new textbooks.                 Students, parents, and teachers
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period for the project is four years, with the Project Completion Date set for
January 31, 2004 and the Project Closing Date for July 31, 2004. The implementing agency for the
project will be the Ministry of Education and Sciences. Project management will be the responsibility
of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOES. The project management unit established to
implement the first IDA-financed education project in Albania, the School Rehabilitation and
Capacity Building Project, will be expanded to manage ER. PIU staff will comprise: Project
'Director, Financial Officer, Procurement Officer, Architect/Engineer, and an Assistant/Interpreter to
support the PIU Director and staff. All these positions will be on a full-time basis. The PIU will hire
the services of short-term consultants, e.g., additional procurement expertise, as needed. The PIU
staff will be contracted as local consultants. A project management consultant will be hired during
the initial phases of the project to assist the PIU in overall management of project activities.
The World Bank os one of several financiers involved in rehabilitation of schools in Albania. Largest
donors, besides the World Bank, are: Soros Foundation, OPEC, and Italian Cooperation Program
(DGCSj). The Director of Investment, MOES is responsible for coordination of all financiers
- 19-



involved in school rehabilitation. To promote collaboration and exchange of expertise and
experience, the MOES will provide sufficient adequate and adjacent office space, including telephone
lines, water and electricity, for the various donors involved in the rehabilitation process. The
Director of Investment will be responsible, with support from technical expertise under the Project,
for preparation of a design standards manual for construction, furniture and materials. The
Department of Investment will be responsible to ensure that all work performed through the MOES
meets these standards and guidelines.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The project management will be overseen by the PIU in the
MOES that will build on capacities already developed under the carried School Rehabilitation and
Capacity Building Project. The Bank's designated Financial Management Specialist out an accounting
and financial management assessment of the existing PIU and found that the capacity of the PIU is
still weak. An action plan was agreed upon to strengthen its still weak capabilities. It is anticipated
that by the date of Board presentation (May 11, 2000), the financial management system will be fully
and satisfactorily in place, and will result in a 4-B certification.
Accounting systems: The PIU already has in place an accounting and financial management system.
However, under the proposed project, this system will need to be substantially improved with the
assistance of a short term Accounting Consultant that will support the PIU accountant in: (i) the
design and implementation of the Project's accounting and financial management system; (ii) the
drafting of the accounting and financial manual; and (iii) computerization of the accounting and
financial system with an appropriate software. The new system will therefore enable the PIU
accountant to produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) on a timely and accurate
basis.
Staffing: The current PIJ already employs an accountant, but since the accounting management
system needs to be established prior to Board presentation, the Unit will be supported during this
phase of the project by a short term Accounting Consultant.
Audit arrangements: The PIU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the
Bank the audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The accounts
and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and
utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing. The appointment of the auditor will be handled under a portfolio-
wide basis agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
Disbursement arrangements: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association.
- 20 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several project alternatives were considered.
1. A focus on improving inputs to the teaching and learning process versus a focus on developing the
capacities of the sector to plan, finance, and manage those inputs. Section B.3 on Strategic Choices
discusses the reasons for this fundamental choice of project design.
2. The use of adaptable project lending with a longer time frame and triggers versus a standard sector
investment credit to be followed by a project that might use an APL instrumentality. Originally, it was
expected that the WB would build on the first education project in Albania with a second, longer-term
project that might use an adaptable lending instrumentality. This possibility was rejected in favor of
staging the Bank's involvement. It was decided to use a four year sector investment credit (ER), designed
on the assumption that it might be followed by a project structured as an APL. Any follow-on project
would be contingent on good progress under ER. It could overlap ER in time, depending on how fast the
sector is able to implement ER, especially the Policy Design/Management component.
The reason for the decision to stage projects was that the Kosovo refugee crisis showed the MOES
leadership, the Bank, and the donors the depth of the capacity problems in the Ministry. The MOES
leadership worked tirelessly to cope with the educational implications of the influx of Kosovo refugees.
However, the crisis overwhelmed a Ministry that was understaffed and lacked the capacities to collect
basic information and plan quickly. Low salaries for MOES staff made them vulnerable to job offers from
donors and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). It became clear that the capacity to create and
manage a credible reform strategy had to be built slowly and solidly, with a subsequent project designed
to finance the reform programs that emerged from the sector's priority-setting.
3. Extendinzg thle EMIS to all 37 education districts versus piloting the EMIS in two or three districts. It
was decided to build the EMIS slowly, both in terms of applications and geographical coverage. This
meant starting with simple information data bases for Ministerial personnel and piloting these in two or
three districts. Education management information systems often fail to achieve their objectives in
developing (and developed) countries. These systems become integrated into the routine operations of
public (or private) agencies only when they meet users' perceived information needs and users can access
up-to-date and reliable information easily. The significant technical and training tasks implied in meeting
these conditions argued for a strategy of "securing the base" with a smaller group of users before
extending it outward or introducing new applications.
4. Setting up co-financing of the EMIS versus co-ordinating with other donors informally. Initially, the
team considered a complex co-financing arrangement for the EMIS with the Italian Government, the
Albania Education Development Project (AEDP)/Soros, and the Japanese Government. This option was
rejected because it was not considered feasible. A complex co-financing arrangement with donor
interdependencies was expected to result in implementation delays and possible failure. In fact, as late as
December, 1999, it had been thought that the Italian Government would finance certain elements of the
EMIS in addition to the local area network that it had already installed. This financing is now unlikely,
and ER has now assumed the financing of these additional elements.
5. Using versuts not using the school rehabilitation component to mobilize more resources for preventive
maintenance. The team considered whether ER could be used to mobilize more resources for preventive
maintenanice. The large accumulated deferred bill for school rehabilitation partly reflects under-financed
maintenance of schools. One option was a covenant agreement with Government that they would
increase their investment in school maintenance. However, in the absence of a public expenditure review
or medium term expenditure framework, it was difficult to set a feasible expenditure goal. Another
- 21 -



option was to work out an agreement between the Bank and Government that the counterpart contribution
to the civil works component would be used to maintain the schools being rehabilitated under ER. There
were two problems with this alternative. One was enforcement of the agreement: maintenance
requirements for the rehabilitated schools will increase through time, with the need for the counterpart
funds being greater after ER has closed. The second was equity. Schools selected for rehabilitation
would also be guaranteed adequate maintenance, in stark contrast to schools that would be neither
rehabilitated nor maintained.
6. Using the textbook component to write new textbooks versus using it to secure reforms in the
procurement of textbook services. It was decided to focus the textbook component on the reform of
procuring textbook services. Albania's textbooks need major revision, but this revision has to be based on
a modernized curriculum. For reasons stated under Strategic Choices (B.3), it was concluded that the
effort required to revise the curriculum had to emerge from the increasing capacity of the MOES to plan
and manage an activity such as this. It was also felt that the significant textbook investment required by a
modernized curriculum should only be made if the procurement of textbook services (publishing,
printing, and distribution) were transparently competed so as to reduce prices and raise quality.
Reforming procurement provides the foundation for the investment required for a new generation of
textbooks.
7. Introducing a textbook rental scheme in ER versus deferring this activity to a later education project.
Textbooks are expensive, and not all children get them. The use of ICB to procure textbooks may result
in savings that allow Government to reduce the price for parents. Such a reduction may put textbooks
within the financial reach of all parents. However, if not, a textbook rental scheme should be considered.
It was decided not to pilot such a scheme in ER for several reasons. It may not be necessary. And if it is,
even implementing a pilot scheme requires considerable lead time--pricing has to be analyzed, the
delivery of books to parents who have paid rental fees has to be reliable, and supervisory staff, head
teachers, and teachers have to be trained to administer the scheme.
- 22 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
-_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____   ____ _-_ _:_ _ . _   (Bank-fianced   proiects only)
Implementati  Development
Bank-financed                                                    on Progress   Objective
-      ~~(IP)       (DO)
Basic Education                      School Rehabilitation and        S            S
Capacity Building
Other development agencies
USA USAID                            Education Planning and
Management
Management Training
EC Phare National                    Vocational Education and
Training, Higher Education
EC Phare Multibeneficiary            Higher Education TA for
Distance Learningi                             * 
EC Special Assistance                Primary Education
European Communities Humanitarian    Pre-Primary Education
Office (ECHO)                        Children's Outreach Program
Primary Education
Rehabilitation and Supplies for
Schools                            *lll  
UN--UNDP Country Framework           Education Planning and
Management Promotion of
Sustainable Hurnan                  -*l   
Development in Albania
Education-Master Plan
UN--United Nations Fund for Population   High Education, Population
Activities (UNFPA)                   Studies Unit in the Economics
Faculty                               *      ll_
Greece                               Secondary Education, Support
to the Social Sector Health and     *l      
Education                                       * 
Higher Education,                   *l      
Development Assistance              --lill_1
Projects in Education Sector*                 ll  
Netherlands                          Primary Education, Human
Rights Education School             *||ll|l
Secondary Education, Surmrner**                 * 
School Tirana, Albania    *MORNll
- 23 -



Italy Direct Financing              Secondary Education, Medical
.                       ~~~~~~~~~Training Course
Education Planning and
Management, European
Council-School Sector Support
to the School Sector-Printing
Books
Switzerland                         Primary Education, Prevention
of Children's Marginalization
Vocational Training and Scale
Industry Promotion (incl.
Durres Vocational School)
Higher Education, Education
and Formation in Alternative
Austria                             Primary Education,
Rehabilitation of Schools
School and Community Based
Infrastructure
Schools Rehabilitation in
Rural Areas I+11+111
Secondary Education, School
of Hotellery
British Government KHF              Primary Education, Integration
of Children with Learning
Difficulties into Mainstream
Primary Education
Secondary Education, Albania
Vocational Education and
Training Project, NVQ' s Phase
2
Germany Financial Cooperation       Higher Education,
Improvement of Tirana
Student's City
Germany Technical Cooperation       Secondary Education,
Promotion of Vocational
Training for Business and
Artisanship
- 24 -



~~~~~~~~~Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-fmanced pro' eot Iy
Albanian Education Development Program Improving the Quality of
Teaching and Learning
Governance and More
Effective Decision Making
Decentralization
Addressing the Educational
needs of Less Empowered
Sectors of Society
OSI Network Programs
Refugee Response in
Education
Construction13
Community 
Canada                                School Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction 
UNICEF                                Pre-primary Education
Primary Education, Education      
Policy                                    @
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Both the hardware and educational elements of the project reflect the lessons and experiences of past
Bank-financed projects.
1. The lack of a credible sector strategy is exacting a high price. Section D.2 shows considerable donor
activity. However, in the absence of a coherent Government strategy for reforming the sector, these
activities have been a patchwork of investments poorly coordinated with each other. They have not
cumulated to move the sector forward in discernible ways. One of the components of ER supports
increasing the MOES's capacities to plan, manage, and finance sector improvement, and any follow-on
Bank project will be contingent on evidence of greater capacity--for example, the development of a
reform strategy and detailed annual work plan acceptable to IDA.
2. The lack of stability in the technical cadre is exacting a high price. High turnover of the MOES
leadership and technical cadre has undermined efforts to improve the planning and implementation
capacity of the MOES. Unless the technical cadre can be stabilized, strategic planning and the orderly
implementation of a multi-year reform strategy will fail. The ER project is coordinating closely with the
Bank's project Public Administration Reform to achieve civil service reform in the MOES in order to
stabilize the technical cadre.
3. Albania's political instability results in reforms that lurch in different directions. Political instability
in Albania has disrupted the continuity of reform, as well as created turbulence in the technical cadre.
The ER takes several actions to protect the continuity of reform implementation.
- 25 -



Building broad-based support for the strate2y that will withstand political instability. The ER
requires  that the players who benefit from, who implement, and who finance the reform be
involved in the development of the reform strategy. Broad-based ownership of the strategy
makes it harder for new political leaders to abandon or disrupt its implementation.
Stabilizing the technical cadre of the MOES. Civil service reform will hopefully begin to create a
technical cadre that is politically insulated and that therefore represents a force for continuity.
Reducing the scope for political ideology by basing the strategy on published data about the
sector. The ER requires that the strategy reflect empirical data about the sector. International
experience shows that as data on the performance of the sector improve, the scope for a
politically motivated reinterpretation of issues is constrained.
4. Weak capacity in the MOES has made it difficult to separate the responsibilities of the PIUfrom those
of the MOES. The PIU should coordinate all project activities and handle all procurement and
disbursement actions required by the project. The MOES and its associated agencies, such as the CEAE,
should implement the project. High turnover among line staff in the MOES has made it virtually
impossible to realize benefits from project-funded training of MOES staff or to internalize responsibility
for project components within the MOES. As noted above, the ER project is coordinating closely with
the Bank's project on Public Administration Reform in order to achieve civil service reform in the MOES
that can stabilize the technical cadre.
5. Experiences with the school mapping data base under the Bank'sfirst education project in Albania
and experiences with education management information systems internationally both affected the design
of the EMISfor Albania. These lessons included: a) the importance of the continuous support of the
MOES executive management; b) a managerial location within the MOES to lead and coordinate the
establishment of the EMIS; c) a clear definition of goals, objectives and strategies; d) a focus on planning,
policy support, and training; e) availability of the databases, the specialized software and the user manual
in the Albanian language; f) public-private partnership; g) using flexible contracts that allow adjustments
in the component midstream; and h) setting up a system of education indicators within the EMIS that
follows a recognized and verified international model, such as the OECD's system of education
indicators.
6. Extensive international and regional experiences with building capacities to assess learning and
conduct examinations are reflected in the design of the learning assessment and examination component.
The extensive international experience with building these capacities has, in general, been successfully
applied in ECA countries such as Romania and Moldova. These lessons are integrated into the design of
the assessment/examination component: a) clear elaboration of goals, objectives, and an overall strategy
for the component; b) continuous training and assistance for CEAE's staff; c) pre-testing and piloting of
all important activities before extending them nationally; d) emphasis on a public information campaign;
e) producing teacher materials for classroom use; and f) using standardized international procedures for
conducting and administering assessments and examinations.
7. A lack of construction guidelines and oversight of construction quality compromises the value of
investments in rehabilitation. The Bank' s first education project, School Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building, anticipated the need to resolve the problems of construction guidelines and quality assurance.
However, during its initial years, the first project made little progress in solving them, in large part
because the MOES was unwilling to use international technical assistance to support the process. For
example, the first project used engineers in the district education offices to assure construction quality,
resulting in wide variations in construction quality. A lack of clear construction guidelines and variations
in the knowledge and incentives of district officers to enforce construction quality all contributed to the
variance in the quality of the final products. ER funds the development of building and design guidelines
and standard specifications for bills of quantity. As part of project preparation, the PRI is preparing draft
procurement documents for hiring an architectural/ engineering firm to establish guidelines related to the
- 26 -



construction and furnishing of schools. ER will also contract with private architectural/engineering firms
or NGOs to design the rehabilitation plans, to write the bidding specifications for the PIU to use in
tendering for construction firms, and to oversee the quality of the work.
8. Inadequately funded school maintenance increases the rehabilitation bill and devalues investments in
rehabilitation. For reasons discussed under section Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for
Rejection (D. 1.4), ER will not address the problem of funding school maintenance. However, a public
expenditure review, nearing completion, will provide Government with possible fiscal strategies for
redressing the shortfall in funds for school maintenance.
9. International competitive bidding results in lower cost and higher quality textbooks. The Bank's first
education project did not procure textbooks and thus had no leverage over procurement methods. Printing
was privatized, but the State-owned Textbook Distribution Enterprise conducted the competitive bidding
among Albanian printers solely. At the end of the Kosovo crisis, a small Bank-funded Post-Conflict
Grant, co-financed by UNHCR, purchased textbooks using international competitive bidding. A Greek
printer won the bidding, supplying textbooks at half the cost of the bids of Albanian printers. Cost-
savings of this magnitude will let Government revisit textbook financing--reducing or eliminating the
Government subsidy or reducing the cover prices for parents.
10. Moving towards privatization of state-owned textbook services should be conducted in ways that
equalize their chances of competing in the market. Privatization should not seek to dismantle state
enterprises, but make their capacities available to Government in a competitive market environment. In
Albania, the roles of the STPH and TDE will change, but it is intended that they have a chance of
surviving as strong and professionally-run private sector businesses. Thus, the textbook component
includes training, especially for the STPH, to support their entry into the market. The first competition
for publishing and book manufacture is modeled on those successfully carried out in a WB-financed
project in Romania and will serve as a pilot experience for both the STPH and private publishers.
4. Indications of borrower comniitment and ownership:
Albania does not have the broad-based public sector and civic commitment to improving education that
exists in some countries and that is a better guarantee of persistent Government support across the life of a
project. There is component-specific commitment, as evidenced below. It should be also noted that the
current leadership of the MOES did understand that a second Bank project was contingent on getting the
Bank's first education project back on track after the civil unrest of 1997 and the disruptions caused by the
high turnover of ministers and technical staff. The Minister took a number of actions to improve project
implementation.
Policy Design/Management. The Cabinet of Ministers is now asking the MOES for a reform
strategy. As the MOES tries to respond to this request, its leadership has become acutely aware of the
costs of inadequate data and the lack of capacity in the Ministry to put together such a strategy. The
leadership is also aware of the costs of turbulence in the technical cadre. When offered the
opportunity to participate as a pilot ministry in the civil service reform, the leadership promptly asked
the Cabinet of Ministers to include the MOES in the first group of line ministries to pilot the reform.
The will of individuals to lead and manage the sector better is clearly greater than the capacity
(organizational culture, structures, skills and knowledge) to do so.
EMIS. The EMIS component was introduced at the specific request of the MOES leadership. In the
last 18 months the MOES has continuously supported the development of the school mapping data
base that will become the platform for the EMIS. The borrower had a significant role in preparing the
component. The Director mobilized a group of local specialists and an international consultant to
design the component. The Minister of the MOES established a new unit to coordinate and develop
the EMIS, designating the current Director of the Scientific Research Department as its head.
- 27 -



0  Assessments/Examinations. At this juncture, the MOES is actively and primarily committed to
establishing fair university entrance examinations. Learning assessments and their importance for
improving the sector are still not well-understood, a problem common to the region. In centrally
planned economies, controlling the inputs to education were seen as controlling the outcomes. At
the same time, in countries such as Romania and Moldova, commitment has been found to develop as
the first assessment is conducted and analyzed.
•  School Rehabilitation. The Borrower requested this component. The physical state of Albanian
schools is, in general,. very poor, and inhibits learning, especially during the winter months. The
political benefits to Government of visibly improving community schools are positive.
*  Textbooks. The MOES, working in collaboration with the Ministry of Privatization, is in the process
of converting the STPH and the TDE to joint stock companies. The Borrower's commitment to WB
procurement guidelines for the purchase of textbooks was established by the encouraging--and widely
publicized--results of the first two rounds of International Competitive Bidding. The Minister of the
MOES specifically requested the introduction of competition in the development and production of
new titles.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
a)   The WB mobilizes substantial technical knowledge to inform and support sectoral improvements,
whether the issue is school construction, teaching and learning incentives, EMIS, financing,
accountability to the civic society, good practices in textbook procurement, or sectoral
management.
b)   WB support of this project lets the Bank coordinate investments in the education sector with Bank-
funded cross-sectoral reforms that will benefit the education sector, such as the civil service reform
and the public expenditure review.
c)   WB support of this project and the Bank's broad involvement in Albania position the Bank to help
Government coordinate donor activity in education.
d)   The Bank's procurement requirements enlarge the competitive market for textbooks.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O  Cost benefit       NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O  Other (specify)
Rates of Return to Education in Albania: Implications for Investment Decisions
Estimates of private and social returns to education for a particular country indicate the payoffs from
public and private investments in education by level of education. Calculations of private returns and
social returns to education in Albania show that investments in basic education yield substantial returns,
but that returns to post-basic education are quite low. Returns to post-basic education seem to reflect
both demand and supply factors. On the demand side, the Albanian economy is, in general, not yet
structured to make effective use of--and thus to reward--higher levels of human capital. On the supply
side, the relatively low quality of Albanian education probably means that more years of schooling do
not translate into the skills and knowledge that employers require when they need workers with post-
basic education. Higher quality education should increase the profitability of investments in education
as economic activity increasingly requires higher levels of skills and knowledge.
Estimates of returns suggest that investments in basic education make sense and that those in post-basic
education do not. However, using returns to education as a basis for investment decisions has a serious
- 28 -



disadvantage: they are a rear-view mirror. Certainly ER will benefit basic education. However, the
fundamental point of ER is better sectoral management that will benefit all levels of education. If it is
assumed that Albania's economy will gradually modernize and thus begin to reward the higher levels of
skill and knowledge required by a modernizing economy, improving the sector to be able to deliver
higher quality education should start now. Education systems both deteriorate and improve very slowly
for the same reason: service delivery is broadly distributed geographically.
Project Components: Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The cost effectiveness of components can be assessed in two ways. One is whether the expected benefits
from the components exceed their costs. All components of the project are designed to improve the
quality of education in Albania (see sections A, B, and C of the PAD), and their total fiscal impact is
estimated to be comparatively low (see Fiscal Impact, E.2, below). The second basis for assessing
benefits and costs is to ask whether each component has been designed to secure the greatest benefits at
the least cost. The question here is whether alternative designs were evaluated from the perspective of
securing similar benefits at less cost.
*  Policy Design/Management. A major objective of this component is cost-effectiveness. It will help
the MOES plan in ways that assess cost tradeoffs between policy alternatives and the fiscal
sustainability of candidate reform programs. Given the weak international knowledge base for
designing this kind of component and the fact that the functions targeted by it are the core functions
targeted by the Bank's civil service reform project, the design of this component capitalized on the
substantial design work already conducted for the Albania civil service reform project.
• EMIS. Section D. 1 (project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection) presents the
cost/effectiveness thinking for this component. Essentially, the decision was made to build the EMIS
slowly, both in terms of the number of applications and geographic coverage.
* Assessments/Examinations. In terms of reducing public sector costs, the preferable design option for
this component is to privatize the assessmentiexamination function. This design possibility is not
feasible at this time. Some capacity has to be built before the longer-term objective of using at least
a mixed private-public arrangement to deliver these services can be entertained.
* School Rehabilitation. Several design decisions were made to maximnize benefits relative to costs.
The first problem was to establish a basis for assessing the economic rationale for rehabilitating a
school--as opposed, for example, to closing it. The school mapping data base helps rationalize the
physical infrastructure for the country and will be used to allocate funds between districts. The
second problem was assuring that Government gets value for its rehabilitation "dollar". Two
decisions were made here to maximize effectiveness relative to costs. One was to require the
development and use of economically rationalized school and furniture design guidelines and bills of
quantities for all rehabilitation activities. Analyses of cost-effectiveness tradeoffs among building
and design guidelines and specifications for bills of quantity are internalized in the tasks of
developing these standards. Second, it was decided to competitively bid among private
architectural/engineering firms or NGOs the following services: the provision of rehabilitation
designs, the preparation of tendering documents for the PIU for construction services, and quality
assurance.
* Textbooks. The main goal of this component is to drive down costs and drive up textbook quality by
competing publishing services for a small number of textbooks, and by using International
Competitive Bidding to procure textbooks.
- 29 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable.
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal sustainability arises as an issue for only two of the five components: the EMIS and Assessment/
Examinations. The first component, Policy Design/Management, will establish a new unit (a planning
unit) and new positions. However, the financing of these generic units and positions is already scheduled
under the civil service reform for all Albanian core and line ministries. The School Rehabilitation
component will reduce the accumulated deferred deficit and, for the first few years after the schools are
rehabilitated, will reduce maintenance costs for these schools. The Textbook component will reduce, not
increase, costs.
The incremental recurrent costs of the EMIS are estimated to average US$125,000 per year for the first 3
years and US$155,000 per year in subsequent years. The incremental recurrent costs of a fully
functioning CEAE are estimated to average US$150,000 per year. This figure includes staff, maintenance
and repairs, and the administration and logistics for all examinations (university and grades 8 and 12) and
national assessments. Since the CEAE is expected to be fully functioning only after ER has closed, the
recurrent cost impact of the CEAE will emerge gradually over the next 4-5 years.
The total fiscal impact of these two components is relatively small: 0.4 percent of the recurrent
expenditures of the MOES in fiscal year 1998. At the same time, the already extremely constrained
recurrent cost budget for education raises questions about the sustainability of any additional costs. This
larger fiscal problem has to be solved in the context of the PER and discussions between Albania's MOF
and the WB on increasing the allocations to education.
3. Technical:
The policy design/management component is structured to be as appropriate to the needs of the MOES as
possible. It uses design experience from the Bank's civil service reform. It is structured to maximize
flexibility as the component implements. However, even these efforts to craft the component to fit
country and Ministry circumstances may fall short. The Ministry's capacity is extremely weak, and this
component may presume more MOES response than is realistic. This component will require vigilant
WB supervision.
The design of the EMIS component is appropriate to the needs of the MOES. The strategy is to
institutionalize/expand, institutionalize/expand, in terms of adding applications and extending the system
geographically. The investment cost estimates are reasonably reliable. Computations take into account
software, training, and operational needs, as estimated by MOES-designated MIS specialists. The
contingency fund allows for possible price increases during implementation, physical contingencies,
and, depending on experience, a possible expansion of the EMIS pilot to more than 2-3 districts.
The strategy for the Assessment/Examinations component is to introduce the changes gradually over a
period of seven to eight years. This design is appropriate for this borrower, since the achievements of
each stage can and will be evaluated, and passing to the next stage is conditioned by the progress
achieved in the previous one.
There is substantial Ministry and WB experience with school rehabilitation in Albania. The reforms
associated with this component are within the capacity of the MOES, the PIU, and local
architectural/engineering and construction firms. The standard contingency fund is budgeted to handle
possible price increases during the period of ER.
- 30 -



The textbook component is technically appropriate to Albania's needs. Prior to the WB-UNCHR joint
procurement of textbooks, there had been no experience in Albania with fully transparent competitive
bidding. There have been criticisms of International Competitive Bidding, primarily of its longer lead
times, but it has now gained an acceptance on which this component can be built. The privatizing of the
STPH and TDE has been in progress for more than a year; it cannot now be seen as revolutionary.
Opening textbook development and production to competition is new; this change will be seen as
radical. However, since the number of titles and the quantities of each to be competed are relatively
small, it is legitimately seen as a pilot that gives the STPH, TDE, and MOES opportunities to learn.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency for the project is the MOES. The institutional framework for the education sector
includes the central government institution (MOES), related agencies (such as the Pedagogic Institute),
the MOES's district education offices, and schools. The project activities will be implemented through a
framework involving the above agencies and schools. The institutional challenge in this project will be to
mobilize incentives for those involved to make and sustain the changes required to solve the
organizational problems. The table in section C.2 points to possible incentives for motivating change.
4.2 Project management:
Within the above institutional framework, the PrU will be established in the MOES, and will work
closely with all agencies involved in delivery of the project activities. The PIU will be responsible for
facilitating project implementation, in particular, to operate a sound accounting and financial
management system and produce the required financial statements to monitor eligible expenditures and
meet audit requirements, and to ensure that procurement of works, goods and services is conducted
according to World Bank guidelines.
The main organizational issues that the PIU will have to confront are:
(a)    A lack of policy analysis and planning capacity within the MOES;
(b)    A lack of capacity to cost out policy options and to estimate the fiscal sustainability of a reform
program;
(c)    Inadequate or inaccessible data about the sector, making policy analysis and planning and
monitoring and evaluation difficult; and
(d)    High turnover of the technical cadre that undermines efforts to pursue a reform strategy across
time and to integrate responsibilities for project implementation into the line departments.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None
4.4 Financial management issues:
None
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: Fl
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This project is categorized as "Fl" because the individual schools to be rehabilitated will not have been
identified a priori. Schools will be selected for rehabilitation on the basis of criteria for allocating funds
between districts and within districts. The Directorate of Investment will allocate project funds among
- 31 -



the 37 districts by applying a model that uses the school mapping data base. An Environmental
Management Plan has been prepared for this project (see Annex 11). This Plan will be applied to each of
the schools selected for rehabilitation to ensure that the environment is not negatively affected by the
works supported under the Project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
See details in Annex 11.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
See paragraph 5.1.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See details in Annex 11.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The deterioration of the physical infrastructure, the outflow of qualified teachers from the rural areas,
and the influx of rural migrants to urban areas, have created serious problems of access to education, as
well as inequities in the quality of education available to different population groups. The social
assessment (SA) conducted as part of project preparation found that poverty, political instability, and
violence have reduced school attendance for boys, many of whom have migrated in search of work, and
for girls, whose parents have withdrawn them from school in response to fears of violence. The SA
found that teaching staff, as well as students and parents, feel excluded from input into the education
process, which they view as managed non-transparently from Tirana. Because of rural poverty and
depopulation, poor and non-poor rural students face the multiple disadvantages of poor rural schools that
qualified teachers have abandoned. In urban areas, migrants from impoverished mountain villages face
discrimination, triggered by their perceived aggressive behavior and poor academic preparation. Poverty
has made tertiary education mainly accessible to the non-poor, with girls in rural areas facing social as
well as economic constraints. While social and poverty-related issues of access and equity are central to
education reform and must shape long-term objectives, the premise of this project is that direct attempts
to address these issues before the Ministry can generate a coherent strategy for improving service
delivery are bound to fail. A clear plan for addressing issues of equity, access, and voice, however, are
among the criteria defining a strategy acceptable to IDA.
Poverty focus: Since this project focuses on building capacity and on reducing debt for the entire sector,
it is not explicitly poverty targeted. However, given increasing inequities and the lack of access for poor
and/or rural youth, the project is pro-poor in the following sense. Improvements in the sector will
disproportionately benefit poor children, since non-poor families can and do pay for private lessons or
send their children to private schools, in some cases abroad.
- 32 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
ER was based on two heavily participatory sector studies. One was the social assessment, in which local
level stakeholders (students and their families, local community leaders, teachers, and
headmasters/mistresses) were consulted about their needs and priorities. The second was the study of
governance. This study involved staff in ministries relevant to the education sector (e.g., the MOF) and
staff at the central and local levels of government for the education sector.
If successful, the policy design/management component will benefit all stakeholders. However, the
initially key group is the policy and staff level of the MOES, and participatory activities have been
organized around this group. To introduce the horizontal debate among MOES staff that this component
requires, all MOES staff were invited to discuss in joint session the project priorities that had emerged
from interactions with individual departments and top policy makers. Members of the emerging MOES
Council went to Romania immediately after negotiations, and issues that MOES participants raised
relative to introducing a planning process similar to that taking root in Romania are being fed into the
TORs for the consultant team supporting Component 1.
Although all stakeholders will ultimately benefit from the EMIS and Assessment/Examinations
components, the initially key groups are Ministry staff. MOES staff organized the preparation of the
EMIS component, in concert with external local and international consultants. The staff of the CEAE
was extensively consulted and asked for feedback in the course of designing the learning
assessment/examination component.
The project plans substantial consultation with and participation by local communities for those schools
being rehabilitated. Consultation cannot be done in advance of project effectiveness because reforms
sought in the rehabilitation component include changes in how schools are selected for rehabilitation.
However, the project presumes that community links to a school encourage the community to defend
the school against vandalism and to maintain its physical condition. To achieve community
involvement, communities are often requested to participate in projects such as
maintenance/rehabilitation/construction of schools. The WB team is not in favor of asking communities,
as a sign of community involvement, to provide labor or materials free of charge towards the
rehabilitation of a school, particularly since such a policy creates a double standard between urban and
rural schools.
Since ER deals exclusively with rehabilitating existing schools, this component plans community
participation that does not unduly delay implementation. The competitively-selected architecturaVfirm
or NGO for rehabilitating a given school will be held accountable for ensuring that in every case this
planned participation happens. However, it is being recommended that the firm contract with a locally
reliable NGO to facilitate the following participation processes:
* An open forum will be held that lets the architectural firm hear community concerns about the
schools to be rehabilitated.
* A second open forum will be held once the architectural firm has completed its design plans at
which the firm will inform the community of these plans.
* A sign-off will be obtained from commune or municipal officials that these forums have been held.
* The architectural firm/NGO will hold a competition at the community level to select paintings,
murals, and other decoration for the walls of the school's classrooms and halls.
* Agreements will be reached with individual families and businesses to maintain individual trees, to
be purchased by ER, that will be planted at the opening ceremony for the rehabilitated school.
* The school will be designed to allow the community to use some of the school facilities at the end of
the school day for community functions.
- 33 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safe uard policies aly to the pro-ect?
El Environment Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)          0  Yes          El No
Ol Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               rO Yes           0E No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GE 4.36)                                 E Yes           El No
O  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes           [El No
O  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)  Xl Yes                                       ENo
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                o Yes           Fx No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                          El Yes          El No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37) 2                           Yes           ONo
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  E Yes         0l No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)      E Yes           0x No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section E5 above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project involves three sustainability issues: the sustainability of institutional reforms, the
protection of the investments in school rehabilitation, and fiscal sustainability.
Sustainabilitv of institutional reforms. As C.2 shows, this project involves a number of changes in
organizational culture. For obvious reasons, the key participants are more likely to observe these
new rules in conducting the activities funded under ER. If ER is sufficiently successful to trigger a
follow-on project, this project can continue to require observance of these new rules. However, the
challenge lies in their becoming routine operating procedures in the absence of incentives linked to
the project. The chart in C.2 describes some steps that should encourage their institutionalization.
Protection of investments in school rehabilitation. As the section on Project Alternatives
Considered and Reasons for Rejection (D. 1.4) indicates, the fiscal aspects of the preventive
maintenance problem cannot be addressed in ER. However, the public expenditure review that is
-34 -



now being completed will provide Government with possible fiscal strategies for redressing the
shortfall in funds for school maintenance.
Fiscal sustainability. As section E. 1 shows, the fiscal impact of ER on Government's recurrent costs
for education are small (0.4 percent of the MOES's recurrent expenditures in fiscal year 1998). At
the same time, the already extremely constrained recurrent cost budget for education raises
questions about the sustainability of any additional costs. This larger fiscal problem has to be
addressed in the context of the Public Expenditure Review and discussions between Albania's MOF
and the WB on increasing allocations to education.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Ratig             Risk Mnimization :eare
From Outputs to Objective
1. Political instability could preclude      S          The process of building a strategy to improve
realizing the payoffs from the outputs.                 the sector will include stakeholder
participation. To the extent that a civic
consensus about the sector is built, this
consensus can at least modestly help protect
reform initiatives from changes in government
and sector leadership.
2. Reaching the objective requires           S          The project is designed to support the civil
substantial investments in training core                service reform, for which the MOES is a pilot
Ministry staff in policy analysis,                      ministry. If this reform is even modestly
planning, budgeting, assessing learning                 successful, it will help to stabilize the technical
outcomes for the sector, and managing                   cadre.
the data systems that yield statistical
indicators of the system. These skills are
marketable. The chances of trained staff
being pirated by the private sector,
donors, and NGOs are relatively high.
3. Government is unwilling to finance        M          A Public Expenditure Review is now being
the additional recurrent costs associated               conducted. Analyses already show that
with two of the five components, thus                   Albania is investing a relatively small percent
undercutting their contribution to the                  of GDP and of total public sector expenditures
objective.                                              in education. It is expected that the PER will
lead to a modest reallocation of funds to
education.
From Components to Outputs
1. Political instability disrupts project    S          Depending on the effects of political instability
implementation.                                         on the implementation of project components,
extend the project closing date, restructure the
project, or cancel the project.
- 35 -



2. If the sector's top leadership changes,   M          Restructure the proj'ect, possibly cancelling
the project could encounter a reluctance                components that depend heavily on
to borrow for international technical                   international TA. Indicate that this reluctance
assistance. However, some of the skills                 endangers the Bank's willingness to invest in
required to yield key outputs, such as the              any follow-on project.
budget planning and management skills,
are not easily built with local, as opposed
to international, technical assistance.
3. The lack of a stable and experienced       S         The project is designed to support the civil
technical cadre within the Ministry                     service reform, for which the MOES is a pilot
endangers the implementation of project                 ministry. The Bank teams supervising ER and
components.                                             the civil service reform project can try to
accelerate civil service reforms in the MOES
that can help stabilize the technical cadre.
4. Several outputs require players to         S         Restructure the project, possibly cancelling
relinquish power, to take responsibility                components compromised by an unwillingness
that is uncomfortable, or to relinquish                 to change or by the pursuit of economic rents
opportunities for personal gain.                        by key players. Indicate that such
cancellations will endanger the Bank's
willingness to invest in a follow-on project.
5. Albania's macro-economic position          S         Increase efforts to attract more donor support
cannot accommodate the reasonable                       for the education sector.
increases in the MOES budget required
to implement the improvement initiatives
identified in detailed annual action plans.
Overall Risk Rating                           S         Bank supervises project intensively and is
willing to restructure it, cancel components, or
cancel the project.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The controversial aspects of ER are the re-distributions of power among the stakeholders in the project.
The component on policy design/management redistributes some power from the Minister of the MOES
to his/her immediate deputies and department directors. It assumes that the Minister of the MOES will
have the ultimate authority over investment decisions. However, it also assumes that the power to
identify sectoral problems, design policy and program alternatives, and recommend investment priorities
to the Minister will be lodged in the first instance in the Council of the MOES, aided ultimately by a
planning unit that will act as technical secretariat to the Council. The EMIS will give a broader group of
sectoral staff access to information about the system. Although training staff in budget planning and
management will obviously increase the credibility of the MOES with the MOF, it will also make the
fiscal implications of the Ministry's improvement priorities transparent. The use of competitive processes
for private architecturaL/engineering firms or NGOs to oversee construction quality will reduce the
opportunities for players to "ignore" poor quality. Bringing the STPH and TDE to the point of sale will
move the power over these services to the market. The use of international competitive bidding for
textbook procurement will reduce the power of Albanian printers to collude in setting prices.
-36 -



Several components presume a redistribution of power from the State to a much broader group of
stakeholders: a) to be funded, the MOES sector strategy and annual work plans will have to be based on
consultations with a broad gioup of stakeholders; b) the publication of the "Statistical Report Card on
Albanian Education" and learning assessment results will give civic players information that can be used
to hold the State more accountable for its delivery of educational services; c) the use of objective
examinations for entrance to university will redistribute some power from university faculties to families;
and d) the limited involvement of communities in school rehabilitation will redistribute some power from
the MOES district education offices to communities.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Submit to IDA evidence of that the State Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and the Textbook
Distribution Enterprise (TDE) have been registered with the Ministry of Privatization as joint stock
companies.
Establish a Project Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA.
Select an auditor satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other
Condition of Board Presentation:
Establish the financial management system for the project, satisfactory to the Bank.
Conditions of Disbursement:
For School Rehabilitation Component, Part A - Submit to IDA the first year list of schools to be
rehabilitated under the proposed project, satisfactory to IDA.
For Policy Design and Management Component, Part A - Borrower to issue a decision, not later than
August 1, 2001, establishing a Policy and Planning Unit and a council of the Ministry of Education and
Science, specifying a sufficient budget, adequate staffing and detailed workplans, in order to carry out the
reform initiatives in, interalia, curriculum reform and teacher training, acceptable to IDA.
Other conditions:
a By July 31, 2002, the Borrower will undertake, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the Project.
*  The Borrower will submit to IDA an annual audit report, of reasonable scope and detail, within six
months after the end of each Government fiscal year.
* The Borrower will ensure that all measures necessary for carrying out the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), satisfactory to IDA, will be taken in a timely manner.
Legal Covenant:
By October 31, 2000, the Borrower shall furnish a detailed action plan for bringing the State Textbook
Publishing House (STPH) and the Textbook Distribution Enterprise (TDE) to the point of sale. The plan
must be satisfactory to IDA and adopted by both the MOES and the Ministry of Privatization of the
Borrower. It will set out: i) all necessary required actions to reach the point of sale; ii) the target date by
which each action will be completed; and iii) the authorities responsible for each action.
- 37 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Ix 1. b) Not applicable.
11 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0x 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
H~uaiien BerE                         James Socknat                    ,Arntraud Hartmarrn/
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Governance and institution  1. Levels of authority  1. Sector report on
building.                  reduced; district offices  governance.
2. Promoting human         downsized.                 2. Supervision reports on ER
development and poverty    2. Sector strategy developed   (component 1).
alleviation.               (MOES).                    3. Supervision reports on ER
3. Learning assessment    (component 3).
methods developed.        4. Supervision reports on ER
4. Teacher retraining begun   (component 1).
5. School mapping exercise   5. Completed (supervision
completed.                report on School
6. Damaged schools        Rehabilitation and Capacity
rehabilitated.             Building Project).
7. Number of universities  6. Supervision report on ER
rationalized (not directly  (component 4).
addressed by ER).          7. PER analyses and
8. Increased share of fiscal    discussions with Government.
resources for non-wage
expenditures.
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Assist the MOES in planning   1. Better ministerial   1. MOES is able to develop    1. Albania has the stable
and managing the delivery of  leadership and management   and implement annual work   government required for
educational services and   of sector reform.          plans that meet the criteria    building stronger public
strengthening its          2. More civic support for  specified in Table 2, Section  institutions.
accountability to stakeholders  sectoral reform.      C.2.
for that delivery.         3. Statistical and information  2. Low-budget, rapid survey   2. Civil service reform is able
databases: a) used for    of small samples of local   to start stabilizing technical
decision-making by policy    professionals and families,    cadre in MOES.
makers; b) routinely updated;  including communities with
and c) regularly published in  schools rehabilitated under    3. Albania's macro-economic
the form of education      project: project midterm and   position is such that the MOF
indicators for the broader  end.                      can increase budget allocations
public in "Statistical Report   3a. Sector strategy and annual to public education, thus
Card on Albanian Education". workplans are based on   financing the incremental
4. More rational and       analyses of statistical   recurrent costs of improvement
persuasive budgetary       databases.                initatives.
processes for the sector.  3b. Examination of data bases
5. Increased and better-used   to determine if data elements
international aid resources.   are being updated on
predefined schedules.
3c. Periodic publication of the
"Statistical Report Card on
Albanian Education".
4. Examination of the fiscal
basis for the sector strategy
and first annual workplan.
5. Total donor grants increase
over time.
- 39 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Policy Design/Management:   Strategy document and      Bank review of strategy and   Civic consensus about the
A sector strategy and first  annual workplan acceptable   annual workplan according to  strategy to improve the sector
annual workplan that meet    to IDA.                   criteria specified in Table 2,  is strong enough to protect
criteria specified in Table 2,                         Section C.2, and in the    reform initiatives from changes
Section C.2.                                           monitoring indicators and  in government and sector
target dates agreed to during  leadership.
negotiations and specified in
Annex 12.
EMIS: An integrated EMIS is 1. Pilot project and data  1-5. Evaluation measures:    1. Component 1 is sufficiently
developed, installed, and  collection and querying     hardware and software      successful to drive demand for
functional in the MOES and 2  system in place 12 months    systems installed and their    management information.
pilot districts.           after project effectiveness.    functioning verified;  2. MOES is able to hire and
2. General administrative  databases functional and   retain marketable EMIS experts
software (4 modules)       verified; space, equipment,   at project's end.
developed 24 months after    and software application for   3. Government finances
project effectiveness.     the CIS and the PCP; training  recurrent costs of EMIS.
3. Analytic and policy     of key staff for each software
support software developed   component; demonstrated
and institutionalized by   staff capacity for using each
project end.               software component.
4. Public contact point (PCP)  1-5. Means of monitoring:
operational 24 months after   a. Contractor progress reports
project effectiveness.     (every 3-6 months);
5. EMIS adequately staffed    b. Supervision missions;
and supported by project end. c. Checkpoints for design and
implementation (12 and 24
months); and
d. Evaluation reports (mid-
term and final).
Assessments/Exarninations:   1. Assessment internationally  Means of monitoring:   1. Borrower understanding of
CEAE has conducted and     certified as professional, and  a. Contractor progress reports  and commitment to learning
analyzed the first grade 4  press clips of results.   (every 3-6 months);         assessments increases.
learning assessment, with  2. new 8th grade examination  b. Supervision missions;  2. Trained staff in CEAE are
press coverage of results,  conducted and graded.      c. Checkpoints for design and  retained.
designed, pretested, piloted,   3. new matura pretested.  implementation (12 and 24    3. Government finances
administered, and graded the                           months); and               recurrent costs of additional
8th grade examination; and                             d. Evaluation reports (mid-    CEAE staff.
designed and pretested an                             term and final).
improved matura
examination.
-40 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of ObJectves           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
School Rehabilitation: 35,000  1. 35,000 school places  1. Project reports and    Directorate of Investments is
school seats rehabilitated in   rehabilitated: end of project.  supervision missions,  willing to use the model for
line with reforms embedded in                         including a special         allocating rehabilitation funds
the component (e.g., new                               assessment of completed    among districts.
design/ construction/quantities                       schools at the time of the
guidelines).               2. Minister of MOES         midterm review.
publishes decree to adopt new  2 and 3. Copy of decree and
design, construction, and  copies of tendering
quantities guidelines for all   documents.
construction and
rehabilitation activities: end
of year 1.
3. Use of new guidelines in
tendering documents for
school rehabilitation.
4. Directorate of Investment   4. Runs of allocation model
allocates WB rehabilitation    yields approximately the
funds equitably among      same distribution of
districts, relative to school    rehabilitation funds among
mapping database.          districts as actually occurred.
5. Communities where       5. Low-budget, rapid survey
schools have been          of small samples of local
rehabilitated report support   professionals and families,
for rehabilitation process.    including communities with
schools rehabilitated under
project: project midterm and
end.
Textbooks: Textbook        1. STPH and TDE compete    I and 2. Tendering
publishing, printing, and  for textbook publishing and   documents.
distribution competed, and  distribution contracts: by  1 and 2. Supervision and
STPH and TDE brought to the project midterm review.    other reports.
point of sale.             2. MOES uses ICB to tender
for textbooks other than those
financed by WB.
3. MOES and MOP submit to  3. Detailed plan of action.
IDA detailed plan for
bringing STPH and TDE to
point of sale.
4. MOES and MOP bring      4. STPH and TDE put up for
STPH and TDE to point of    sale according to the sale
sale according to timelines    mechanism appropriate for
specified in detailed plan of   state-owned enterprises of
action.                   this type.
-41 -



Project Components / Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:         (from Components to
components:                component)                                              Outputs)
Policy Design/Management.   US$3.6 million.          Quarterly project          Appropriate education sector
management report.        management, including
motivation and rewards, in the
institutions involved for
successful project management.
EMIS.                      US$0.8 million                                       Better information database
and more effective use of
information in policy decisions.
Assessments/Examinations.    US$0.6 million                                     Improved and more equitable
assessment and examination
capacity for the education
sector.
School Rehabilitation.    US$7.3 million                                        Improved physical
infrastructure for schools.
Textbooks.                 US$2.6 million                                       Higher quality textbooks.
-42 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALBANIA: Education Reforn Project
The project has five components. The first three are closely related, with components 2 and 3 (Education
Management Information System and Assessments and Examinations) being designed to support
component 1 (policy design, management, and educational improvement). Components 2-5 build on or
extend work started in the first IDA-financed project, the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building
Project.
1. Policy Design, Management, and Improvement of Education System
2. Education Management Information System
3. Assessments and Examinations
4. School Rehabilitation
5. Textbooks
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.60 million
Policy Design/Management. In addition to project management, this component finances three kinds of
activities:
1. Development of core functions within the MOES, resulting in a sector strategy that meets certain
criteria;
2. Design of particular education functions or initiatives that flow out of the strategy, with the design
meeting certain criteria; and
3. Implementation of particular education functions or initiatives that meet the design criteria.
The component will take account of work being done through other projects in which the MOES is
engaged, such as the work on organizational responsibilities supported by the University of Boccone, the
work being done with AEDP support, and that supported by agencies such as the Council of Europe and
UNICEF. In particular, it will complement the activities being conducted by the MOES as a pilot ministry
for the civil service reform program, sponsored by the Department of Public Administration and
supported by the Bank's Public Administration Reform project. Several donors are interested in
supporting the Albanian education sector; the MOES will try to obtain grant support for some of the
activities listed below, making use of World Bank funds only where such support is not forthcoming.
Component Activities
Development of core functions within the MOES. This sub-component will support the strengthening of
the basic activities that all ministries have to conduct to be effective, such as policy analysis, planning,
financial planning and management, and the management of human resources. It will fund the
establishment of the Council of the Ministry of Education and Sciences to set sector strategy and priorities
and of a technical unit to act as a technical secretariat to the Council. The technical secretariat will
conduct needed policy, planning, and financial analyses.
The work for this sub-component will be conducted through a contract with a consulting firm or other
agency to provide a team of short-term and longer-term local and international consultants to carry out
agreed tasks. (Possibly, instead of a firm, the technical assistance can be provided by an agency such as a
Ministry of Education in another country.) Under this contract, the consulting agency will take
responsibility for the overall content of the assistance provided and the performance of the consultant
team and its individual members. The agency will be in constant contact with the Deputy Ministers to
ensure that the objectives of the assistance are being met and to take action as necessary to respond to any
- 43 -



problems. The agency will arrange training inside and outside Albania, in agreement with the MOES and
the World Bank as appropriate, to meet defined needs. It will identify consultants as necessary to provide
assistance in response to requirements that arise during implementation.
The MOES could enter into a twinning relationship with education ministries in one or more foreign
countries (selected through a competitive procedure if financed by the World Bank). Twinning could be at
the level of the ministry, or at the level of individual agencies, such as between the Pedagogic Institute
and a simnilar agency in another country. Under a twinning arrangement, staff from the foreign agency
would work in Albania for frequent, short periods, sharing with their Albanian counterparts their working
practices and assisting in analysis of issues; they would also contribute to training programs as
appropriate. Staff from the MOES would visit the foreign agency, and share the work of their foreign
counterparts to gain experience of how the foreign agency carries out its responsibilities, and how it has
addressed problems similar to those facing Albania. The twinning relationship could either complement
the technical assistance provided by consulting firms, or could be the principal means of providing that
technical assistance. Twinning could be funded under the project, or could be provided through a bilateral
relationship with another donor.
The key outputs for this sub-component are: a) establishment of a Council of the MOES that functions as
a priority-setting and program-designing policy body; b) establishment of a technical policy analysis and
planning unit that, as technical secretariat, supports the Council; c) development of effective financial
analysis skills and tools in the technical secretariat; d) completion of a reform plan for the sector that
meets specified criteria; and e) completion of a first annual reform workplan that meets specified criteria.
The criteria for a sector strategy acceptable to IDA are:
1. Strategic priorities emerge out of a "contestable" policymaking process--in other words, out of debates
and consensus-building by the Council of the MOES about priorities. The membership of the Council of
the MOES is designed to cut horizontally across the Ministry. It will include, for example, the deputy
ministers, directors of all departments, including agencies such as the Pedagogic Institute, and others as
desired.
2. Stakeholders have been involved in the development of the strategy, including teachers, families,
district and local governments, employers, and other central level ministries.
3. The strategy is based on statistical data and statistical analyses where relevant and available.
4. Investment and incremental recurrent costs of policy alternatives have been estimated, and the fiscal
sustainability of the total reform program has been evaluated.
5. The effects on equity have been assessed. Strategic priorities should reduce educational inequalities
among subgroups, such as rural versus urban students, girls versus boys, or children from poor versus
non-poor families. At the least, priorities should be neutral with regard to equity, ones that increase
existing inequalities in educational access and quality being unacceptable.
Design of particular educationfunctions or initiatives thatflow out of the strategy. This sub-component
supports the work required to design particular educational functions and reform initiatives that emerge
from the strategy--for example, establishing policy for curricular revision and designing the process by
which revision will actually occur. It will fund technical assistance (local and international, as needed)
and training. It can cover consultation activities--for example, workshops for teachers to evaluate
curricular policy--and small trials that might be needed to support the design process.
The key outputs of this sub-component are designs of education functions or initiatives that meet these
criteria.
1. Alternative ways to achieve a particular strategic objective have been explicitly considered. For
example, there are several different models for the in-service training of teachers, and they vary in their
costs and effectiveness.
- 44 -



2. The alternative selected is the one that is simplest to implement and most cost-effective in meeting the
objectives in the Albanian context.
3. Detailed workplans to implement a particular educational initiative have been developed, including the
outputs sought from the activity and the costs.
Implementation of particular education functions or initiatives that meet the design criteria. This sub-
component provides the funds to start to implement programs to improve the quality and administration
of education. These funds would finance programs that meet agreed criteria:
1. The MOES and the World Bank agree that the program is of high priority in accordance with the
MOES strategy, and
2. The initiative has been costed, its cost effectiveness has been shown to be satisfactory, a satisfactory
action plan exists showing how and by whom the program is to be implemented, and the other resources
needed for program implementation are available.
Project management. A Project Inplementation Unit (PIU) has been established to provide overall
management of the project. For school construction and rehabilitation, the PIUJ will collaborate closely
with the Directorate of Investment, but for policy-related matters, it will work closely with the Council of
the MOES and the Minister. Overall responsibility for the project will rest with the Minister of Education
and Sciences. The role of the autonomous PIU is to manage implementation, not to perform by itself the
various tasks of implementation.
The PIU will be directly responsible for the day-to-day management of the project, including
coordinating and monitoring all project activities, managing the procurement of goods and services,
and administering the project funds. The unit will be headed by a Project Director and supported by a
staff comprising the following positions: Financial Officer, Procurement OfficeT, Architect/Engineer,
Secretary/Interpreter, and Driver. In addition the PIU would employ the services of short-term local
consultants, such as architects and engineers, to assist the PIU, interalia, with the review of designs
prepared by private architectural firms. Project financial management, including payment to
contractors and suppliers, will be performed by the PIU. An independent auditor, as specified in the
Credit Agreement, will audit accounts. Except for staff on Government payroll, all PIU staff will be
fully financed through the Credit as local consultants; and operational and maintenance costs of the
PIU will be financed from the Credit. Any staff to be recruited for the PIU will be selected after
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
For school construction and furnishing (component 4), the Directorate of Investment and the PIU will
each be responsible for specific tasks. The Directorate of Investment will be responsible for ensuring
that the Ministry's policies are respected. The PIU will manage the implementation of all technical
aspects of the project. Thus, the Directorate of Investment will set priorities, planning standards, and
budgets. Specifically, it will: a) select the schools to be rehabilitated in accordance with agreed
procedures and guidelines; b) calculate each district's allocation of the available resources, following
agreed procedures and criteria, and using the school-mapping database; c) review the evaluation
report prepared by the PIU for the selection of architectural firns and other expertise and sign
contracts; d) approve preliminary designs and description of works, as prepared for the PLU by the
architectural consulting firms; e) approve rehabilitation budgets presented by the PIU on the basis of
cost estimates prepared by the architectural consulting firms; f) chair the construction contract award
commnittee, which reviews award recommendations prepared for the PIU by the consulting architects,
and sign contracts; g) ensure that site supervision is performed adequately by the PIU and the
consulting architects; h) review any variation order in excess of 15% of the contract amount; and
i) attend the site meeting, and sign off, on behalf of MOES, the preliminary and final inspection and
reception of works.
- 45 -



The PIU's responsibilities for school rehabilitation include: a) hiring the services of private
architectural/engineering firms or NGOs capable of providing comprehensive services (architectural
services, all required engineering services, preparation of tender documents, evaluation of tenders,
and site supervision); b) supervising the work performed by the architectural/engineering firms to
ensure that they are applying adequate standards and are following agreed procedures; c) organizing
tendering procedures; d) reviewing tender evaluation performed by the architectural/engineering
firms; e) arranging for the contracts to be signed in accordance with agreed procedures; f) ensuring
that the architectural/engineering firms are providing adequate site supervision; g) processing monthly
payment certificates and issue payment; h) managing an adequate project implementation-monitoring
database; i) keeping project accounts in accordance with World-Bank guidelines; j) managing and
monitoring implementation of individual projects; k) reporting to Government and donors;
I) contributing to the definition and improvement of national construction standards and to community
involvement activities; and m) establishing and keeping a database on each rehabilitated school, this
database to be used by the Directorate of Investment to plan and monitor rehabilitation and
maintenance, and by any other agency.
For other activities such as equipment, technical assistance and training, the procedures and
responsibilities described above, for both the Directorate of Investment and the PIU, remain the same.
The only difference is that lists of goods, terms of references for experts and/or training programs will
be prepared by the concerned agencies.
Project Component 2 - US$0.80 niillion
Education Management Information System. The EMIS component will use the local area network that
the Italian Government has just established in the MOES, 37 districts, and 11 universities. The network
now supports intranet services, and the Italian Government has funded the initiation of internet services
from March 2000 for Tirana only. ER will fund the following EMIS activities. An EMIS system is
normally restricted to the information systems and applications specific to the education sector: Data
Collecting Systems, Database Querying Systems, and Analytical and Policy/Decision Support Systems.
However, because of the lack of more basic computer applications in Albania's institutions, general
administrative applications for accounting, payroll, legislation, and document tracking in MOES are also
included. In addition to the above applications, a Public Contact Point (PCP) proposed by the MOES
Project Group, is supported and budgeted under the EMIS component, as is the the establishment of a
Center of Information and Statistics (CIS).
Center of Information and Statistics. ER will establish a Center of Information and Statistics (CIS) in the
MOES, drawing on the existing capacities of the current Center for Scientific and Technical Information
and Documentation. The CIS will have its own staff of at least 5 specialists, premises, and equipment.
The CIS will perform these functions:
*  operate as the main node of communication and data exchange, and the MOES "memory" for
information and problem-solving;
*  be the locus of all data, information and knowledge gathering activities in the MOES;
*  be responsible for the annual publication of the "Statistical Report Card on Albanian Education"
(SRCAE) for stakeholders;
*  be responsible for providing educational statistical information for all stakeholders. The existing
statistical office within MOES will be part of CIS; and
*  undertake all responsibilities for coordinating further management and development of the EMIS.
Data Collection System. Automatic procedures will be developed under the data collection system for
importing data and developing the raw databases. Templates will be designed to allow data collectors at
school level to gather the information requested easily, while avoiding duplication of reporting. This
module will be flexible and able to be customized. The primary entry data module will provide for
modification of data and deletion of records, in addition to data entry.
- 46 -



Database Querying System. The system will include a graphical query module for building simple and
complex database queries. The medium and long tern needs of the Albanian EMIS require it to run on
ORACLE software, and the hardware and networking provided to MOES by the Italian Government
allow such a software solution. The system recommended by ORACLE is an Intranet/Internet system in
which an ORACLE application called Application Server is installed on a web server. The application
allows clients who use internet browsers such as Netscape and Internet Explorer to access ORACLE
databases located on Internet and Intranet. The recommended software is ORACLE 8i Standard Edition
which allows the use of the Application Server Standard Edition. The staff working on ORACLE
applications are database administrators and Java applications developers. The initial training for both
categories of specialists takes 10-15 days.
Analytical and Policy/Decision Support System. An analytical and policy/decision support system will let
users compare schools and districts, perform multiple attribute evaluation, rank, weight and group schools
and districts, explore and explain patterns, target and allocate resources based on formulas. The tool will
be used for strategic assessment. policy dialogue, monitoring and evaluation, and should have the
capability of combining quantitative data with qualitative data and the judgments of participants in the
dialogue, i.e. experts, policymakers and stakeholders. The analytical and policy/decision support system
will let the user import raw data tables in various formats (Dbase, FoxPro, Paradox, MS Access, Lotus,
Excel, Oracle), compute indicators (ratios, percentages, etc) and format the data for analysis. The
software should be able to import geographic files in industry-standard GIS format (for example, ESRI's
shape files) or scanned maps and should include map operations and facilities of map editing.
General Administrative Software. The general administrative software applications will be developed by
Albanian companies in the Albanian language and will include:
IDocument tracking and archiving system
Application for accounting
Application for payroll
* Application for legislation
Several general adrministrative software applications are already available in Tirana, and the best and most
cost efficient applications will be selected through a local procurement vehicle.
Public Contact Point (PCP). A Public Contact Point (PCP) will be developed on the premises of the
MOES. It will use the proposed software application for document tracking and archiving, together with
several other categories of information potentially requested by the interested citizen or stakeholder. The
software will be designed on an Internet browser platform, in order to function as an Intranet application.
The server should have the Linux operation system and should work with a relational database
(ORACLE). The proposed budget includes one server with linux and the document tracking software
application (minimum 64 MB RAM, and 2 Hard Disks), 6-8 PCs with 32 MB RAM and Internet
browsers, a mega switch, printers and copiers. The required space is one middle-size room, with office
furniture, and the staff training needed is 3-5 days. A WWW portal should be established on the MOES
server to allow for everybody to query the public information found in this system.
The PCP will be staffed by a minimum of two specialists. At the end of ER, the PCP:
will provide information requested by the interested citizen or stakeholder;
will maintain a WWW portal on the MOES server to allow for everybody to query the public
information found in this system;
will identify any specific need for information requested by the interested citizen or stakeholder;
will work in close relationship with CIS.
- 47 -



Capacity Building. A special problem in Albania is staff recruitment and retention of the skilled IT staff
needed to support the EMIS. For this reason, the contractors involved in the EMIS implementation (both
international and local) will run, manage and maintain the system for the duration of the ER project. The
contractors will be responsible for the training and operating needs of the MOES, university and district
Oduration. At least one half-time person will be available at each EMIS location (MOES and district
offices) for each software application developed. By the end of ER, MOES will be expected to recruit
the personnel required to assume full responsibility for operating and maintaining the system, and the
contractors will be expected to train them.
The MOES now has the small group of IT specialists (2-3 people) responsible for network maintenance.
The MOES is planing to have a contract with local IT company for hardware and software maintenance.
The MOES group of IT specialists will have following responsibilities:
*  Technical supervision of the MOES network;
*  Troubleshooting of simple problems;
*  Identifying of problems of the MOES network;
*  Acting as the control mechanism for services provided by local IT company responsible for
hardware and software maintenance;
*  Acting as the Help Desk of MOES.
Detailed implementation plan for the EMIS. This is available in the February 2000 technical appraisal
report for this component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.60 million
Assessments and Examinations. This component will continue to build the capacity of the Center for
Educational Assessment and Examinations (CEAE). It is structured to continue across ER and any
follow-on project, its inclusion in a follow-on project being contingent on the establishment of a
functioning CEAE under ER. This medium-term strategy (2000-2006) has two closely related parts:
(a)  PHASE I, called "Preparation", is expected to be implemented during the remaining period of
the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, during the preparation of ER, and under ER
itself. Thus, even before and at project effectiveness, CEAE members will participate in four major
training activities: (i) a study visit and training at CITO, the Netherlands (February); (ii) a training
program on multiple choice item writing, run by Robert Altman and test development consultant in
Tirana (March); (iii) a training program on various assessment and exams activities at NAES,
Romania (April); and (iv) a study visit and training at ETS, Princeton USA (June/July). The
Preparation Phase, expected to last between two and three years, will create the conditions for the
CEAE to expand and to assume its main responsibilities. Depending on the successful achievement
of the objectives of the first phase, the CEAE can the proceed to Phase II.
(b)  PHASE II, called "Implementation", is expected to be implemented during a follow-on
project and will put the new system into practice. This Phase should last for about 3-4 years.
ER will finance the following activities to reach these objectives:
* Improving the teaching and learning process in Albania by creating reliable and policy-
relevant data on students' learning performances, relative to curricular learning standards (i.e.,
conducting and analyzing the results of a national grade 4 learning assessment in Albanian
language and mathematics);
* Creating and administering an university entrance examination that meets international
standards for quality and fairness;
•  Training trainers and Working Group subject specialists across the country to work on
assessments and examination activities;
-48 -



*  Increasing the transparency of assessment in Albania, including a public information
campaign; and
* Preparing for activities to be completed under a follow-on project, such as: certify students'
competencies at key stages in public education (i.e., grades 8 and 12), create an organizational
structure for national-wide testing that provides continuous data on students' performances,
develop assessment materials for teachers to use in the classroom, and participate in the
process of designing standards in order to increase CEAE's effectiveness in assessing them.
Ideally, the process of assessment and examinations reform should be based on the new
curriculum.
If the activities required to achieve these objectives are to be successfully implemented in the
projected time frame (ER and the first part of any follow-on project), an increase of approximately 10
full time staff (to a total of 15 staff) and 3-4 part time /contracted staff will probably be needed. The
fiscal sustainability of these staff needs is addressed in Annex 4.
Detailed implementation plan for the CEAE. This is available in the January 2000 technical appraisal
report for this component.
Project Component 4 - US$7.30 million
School Rehabilitation. This component funds the rehabilitation of about 35,000 school places (about
5,500 schools). The rehabilitation process has several features. The component will assure quality by
contracting: (i) design and construction supervision with either private architectural firms or NGO's; and
(ii) construction with pre-qualified civil works contractors. It will also involve communities in the
rehabilitation of each school. It will fund the development of school and construction guidelines and
specifications of bills of quantity.
School selection. School selection is designed to: (i) ensure that the schools selected meet agreed criteria,
and (ii) that the regional distribution of schools selected is equitable. To achieve this, the list of schools
to be rehabilitated under this project will be established in two phases. This exercise will be performed at
least once a year, or more often if implementation is progressing faster than planned.
* Phase 1: MOES will prepare a comprehensive and countrywide list of schools to be rehabilitated.
This list will be identified using various criteria applied by MOES, including, interalia, the physical
condition of the school selected, enrollment, the level of poverty in the area of the school, the ease of
access to the school, distance from other schools, availability of teachers, and the reasonableness of
the estimated cost of rehabilitation.
* Phase 2: The Government, the Bank and other donors have already rehabilitated a substantial
number of schools. However, there is no information available about the countrywide distribution of
those rehabilitated schools relative to demographic data, as measured by enrollments. To assure an
equitable distribution of IDA funds, the list of first year schools to be rehabilitated will be selected by
applying criteria to the school-mapping database (Component 2). The criteria for deciding how many
schools will be selected from a given district will include (a) how much funding has been provided by
other donors to that district, and (b) enrollments relative to prior rehabilitation activity.
Guidelines for school design, construction and furniture. MOES does not have a simple school
construction manual. As a result, different design and construction standards are used in school
rehabilitation activities. At least two, and possibly three different PIUs, all involved in school
rehabilitation, will have adjacent offices under a same roof. It is expected that they will share know-how,
expertise and experience. Together under the leadership of the Director, Investment, they will develop a
basic school design, construction and furniture manual (guidelines), including specification for materials
and fixtures. This component will support the development of such a manual. The Directorate of
Investment will lead this effort, making use of inputs from architects and engineers in the MOES and in
- 49 -



other donor-supported projects. The Department of Investment of the MOES will be expected to review
and approve these guidelines and to apply them to all schools, furniture, materials, and supplies, whether
funded by Government, different donors, or IDA. These guidelines should meet functional and cost-
effectiveness criteria. They should also result in aesthetically pleasing physical environments for
learning. Once finalized, this basic school manual could be developed into a more comprehensive design
standards document. However, the first and most important objective is to make available to all school
rehabilitation players, and as soon as possible, a basic guide for school rehabilitation.
Architectural designs, bid documents and construction site supervision. Private architectural firm(s) or
NGO's, hired by the PIU, will provide all required services (architectural, engineering, QS). They will:
*  survey the schools
*  prepare preliminary designs and cost estimates
*  prepare working drawings, bills of quantities and full bid documents.
*  evaluate tenders and make award recommendations
*  provide full construction site supervision.
*  prepare monthly progress certificates
The PIU will monitor these activities to ensure that they are being done in accordance with WB
guidelines. The MOES will review preliminary designs, budget allocations, and sign contracts. To
perform this task, the PIU will need to have an architect on its staff to brief and review the work
performed by the architectural firms. It was felt that the recruitment of a full time architect was not
warranted. It was instead agreed that that the PIU would hire the services, on an hourly basis, of a private
architect, from a larger firm, also employing various engineers. Such a solution would enable the PIU to
employ on short assignments various skills it may need for advice and review of designs, specifications
and engineering solutions.
Construction site supervision. The private architecture/engineering firms will provide full site
supervision. In addition, the PIU will have on its staff a site supervisor who will ensure that the private
architectural firms are performing site supervision in accordance with the terms of their contracts. The
PIU site supervisor will also help solve any issues arising between the private architects and the
contractors.
Community Involvement. The Community's participation under this project is limited to activities, that do
not delay implementation. The following types of community participation have been identified:
*  An open forum will be held that lets the architectural firm hear community concerns about the
schools to be rehabilitated.
*  A second open forum will be held once the architectural firm has completed its design plans at
which the firm will inform the community of these plans.
*  A sign-off will be obtained from commune or municipal officials that these forums have been
held.
*  The architectural firm will hold a competition at the community level to select paintings, murals,
and other decoration for the walls of the school's classrooms and halls.
*  Agreements will be reached with individual families and businesses to maintain the individual
trees, to be purchased under the project that will be planted at the opening ceremony for the
rehabilitated school.
*  The school will be designed to allow the community to use some of the school facilities at the end
of the school day for community functions.
- 50-



Project Component 5 - US$2.60 million
Textbooks. This component has three interlinking parts. It funds the process of privatizing the State
Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and the Textbook Distribution Enterprise (TDE). It funds
procurement of textbooks, using ICB procurement procedures. And it funds the competitive publishing,
production, and distribution of a small number of new textbooks.
Bringing the STPH and TDE to the point of sale. At present, the STPH is responsible for developing the
content of all new Albanian pre-university textbook titles as well as for the updating and revision of
existing titles. It is a department of the MOES and receives funds from the ministry to cover its operating
costs. The TDE is an autonomous enterprise answerable to the MOES with a greater degree of
independence than STPH. It is responsible for the procurement of the printing and binding of all
Albanian pre-university textbook titles. It is also responsible for their distribution and sale. Publishing
and the production and distribution of textbooks will be opened to competition between private sector
publishers, manufacturers, and distributors, and the STPH and TDE are expected to compete with existing
private sector companies. The volume of their turnover that is generated from titles that are not yet subject
to competition will progressively decline.
To create a level playing field for the STPH and TDE during the privatization process, both will receive
technical assistance before their conversion to joint stock companies and during the period when they are
being brought to the point of sale. STPH will benefit from two consultancies in Publishing Management
and Finance and one in Information Technology for Publishing. TDE will benefit from one consultancy
on Marketing and Distribution. These are scheduled to take place in the first year after the project
becomes effective. This component will also purchase equipment for the STPH. STPH suffers from
years of little capital investment. As a result, it is hampered in its task of providing printers with camera
ready copy or film of sufficient quality to ensure that text and illustrations--particularly those in four
colors--are satisfactorily reproduced. It also suffers from insufficient electronic storage capacity to enable
it to retain and access all current titles without difficulty.
Procurement of existing textbooks. The adoption of World Bank procurement guidelines for the
manufacture of Albanian textbooks has already taken place for certain titles funded by UNHCR and the
Bank's Post Conflict Grant. These have been procured using international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures, and ER will continue this practice. Over the four years of the project, ICB for the
manufacture of existing textbooks will be funded annually. The first titles to be procured through ICB
will be for the school year 2001-2002. IDA funds will not be sufficient to fund Albania's full annual
requirement for textbooks.
There are two important provisos:
*  The manufacturing specifications of books procured through ICB (e.g., quality and weight of text
paper and cover board and style of binding) will be raised to ensure that book life is extended.
*  As long as the TDE is the monopoly distributor of Albanian textbooks, a transparent accounting
mechanism has to be agreed and introduced to ensure that the funds that are generated through the
sale of books funded by the component are identified and used entirely for the procurement of
further titles through ICB. By this means, the proportion of Albania's textbook needs that the
component can fund will increase year on year.
Procurement of the publishing, production, and distribution of new textbooks. The third part of the
component is a pilot scheme to introduce competition into the development, production, distribution and
sale of new textbook titles. 4500 copies of each of 15 titles for use in the tenth grade in 15
technical/vocational schools are required to match the new curriculum. First, private sector publishers
- 51 -



will be invited to pre-qualify to undertake this work. Those that are successful will subsequently bid to
undertake the work. In order to ensure that the bidding and evaluation process is clearly understood and
that sufficient time is allowed for each step in the ICB process, it may not be possible to ensure that the
new titles are available at the start of the 2000-2001 school year.
Since the bulk of educational publishing in Albania has been in public sector hands for many years, the
publishing skills of the private sector need to be strengthened. During the first two years of the project,
the textbook component will fund training courses for publishers and for authors and illustrators. These
courses will be available to the staff of STPH (and TDE should they wish to participate) as well as to the
staff of private sector publishers. Authors and illustrators who already work on educational titles for both
public and private sector publishers will be welcome to take part, as will potential authors and illustrators.
Book policy. Albania has no formal book policy. Many of those involved in government and in different
aspects of book provision see the need for one. The textbook component will fund a conference where
educators, authors, illustrators, publishers, distributors and booksellers will be able to air their views and
where a draft book policy can be drawn up for publication and nation-wide consultation.
-52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component            US $million   US $5nillion   US SmiUion
1. Policy Design and Management                     0.58         2.98         3.56
2. Education Management Information System          0.37         0.41         0.78
3. Assessment/Examinations                          0.29         0.25         0.54
4. School Rehabilitation                            4.40         2.12         6.52
5. Textbooks                                        1.37         1.07         2.44
Total Baseline Cost                                 7.01         6.83        13.84
Physical Contingencies                             0.48         0.25         0.73
Price Contingencies                                0.16         0.15         0.31
Total Project Costs   7.65          7.23        14.88
Total Financing Required              7.65         7.23         14.88
Local       Foreign       Total
Proiect Cost B Categon              US SMillion   US $million   US $Willvn
Works                                               3.85          1.41         5.26
Goods                                               1.81          1.69         3.50
Services                                            0.55          3.20         3.75
Training                                            0.13          0.36         0.49
Recurrent Costs                                     0.67          0.17         0.84
Physical Contingencies                              0.48          0.25         0.73
Price Contingencies                                 0.16          0.15         0.31
Total Project Costs   7.65         7.23         14.88
Total Financing Required    7.65         7.23        14.88
-53 -



Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
Cost effectiveness can be assessed for the sector and for alternative designs for individual components.
Sector Cost Effectiveness
The general argument for investing in education is that if economic activity is organized to make effective
use of higher levels of human capital, education contributes to economic growth directly by increasing the
productivity of labor (the principal asset of the poor) and indirecdly by improving personal health,
facilitating the development of new technologies, and integrating these technologies into economic
activity (World Bank, 1995). Education can also enhance social development by, for example, promoting
the institutions of civil society, improving social equity, strengthening national cohesiveness, and
lowering crime rates (Mignat and Tan, 1996).
Estimates of private and social returns to education for a particular country indicate the payoffs from
public and private investments in education by level of education. Calculations of private returns and
social returns to education in Albania show that investments in basic education yield substantial returns,
but that returns to post-basic education are quite low. Returns to post-basic education seem to reflect both
demand and supply factors. On the demand side, the Albanian economy is, in general, not yet structured
to make effective use of--and thus to reward--higher levels of human capital. On the supply side, the
relatively low quality of Albanian education probably means that more years of schooling do not translate
into the skills and knowledge that employers require when they need workers with post-basic education.
Higher quality education should increase the profitability of investments in education as economic
activity increasingly requires higher level skills and knowledge.
Estimates of rates of return argue for investments in basic education, but not for investments in upper
secondary and post-secondary education. However, using rates of return to education as a basis for
investment decisions has two serious disadvantages. One is that they are a rear-view mirror. Using
current rates of return for investments whose payoffs will be realized downstream can lead to bad
decisions. A classic example is the rate of return to a college education in the United States in the 1970s.
This rate was low, but by the early 1980s was climbing steeply as the American economy adjusted to
globalization. If it is assumed that Albania's economy will gradually modernize and thus begin to reward
the higher levels of skill and knowledge required by a modernizing economy, improving the sector to be
able to deliver higher quality education has to start now. Education systems deteriorate and improve very
slowly for the same reason: service delivery is broadly distributed geographically. The second
disadvantage of using rates of return for investment decisions is that they do not reflect the fact that the
different levels of education constitute a system. Thus, realizing returns on investments in basic
education often requires improving other levels of education. The fundamental point of ER is to improve
sectoral management--a precondition for improving basic education and simultaneously benefiting all
levels of education.
Methodology. Returns should be weighed against the costs of education, the latter being equal to the sum
of forgone earnings and the direct costs of schooling. To calculate private returns, only private benefits
and costs are considered; for social returns, both private and social costs are taken into account. The
private return to education is defined as the rate of return that equalizes the present value of the benefits
from additional schooling with the present value of the costs associated with it. The private benefits of
schooling are the premium in wages associated with different levels of education. For example, the
benefit of basic education is the lifetime difference in earnings between those who finished basic
education and those who did not attend any school at all. When schooling is provided free of charge, as in
- 54 -



Albania, the costs borne by the individual are his (her) forgone earnings during the course of study. For
basic education, we assume 3 years of forgone earnings.
In calculating social returns, direct public costs of education are also taken into account. In principle, the
calculation of social returns should also include the social benefits of education--the so-called
externalities, such as spillover effects on worker productivity, externalities of research, reduction of
crime, or reduced risks from infectious diseases. Since little guidance exists on how to measure these
benefits, they are not included in this analysis.
Two methods are used to calculate private returns in Albania for the year 1996, both yielding similar
results. One method is the estimation of the so-called earnings function. Table A4. 1 presents the
estimates from applying this method. Different levels of education are represented by a series of dummy
variables, the excluded group being individuals with completed basic education. The earnings function
also includes other variables -- the so-called control variables, which are interesting in their own right and
are discussed below. The second computational method is based on average earnings by level of
education (the so-called short-cut method; see Psacharopoulos, 1995). The earnings function estimates
show a flat age-earnings profile--i.e., higher age is not associated with higher earnings--that justifies the
use of the short-cut method.
The estimates of private and social returns are presented in Figure A4. 1 and Table A4.2. Private returns
are about 13-16 percent for basic education, 3-4 percent for upper secondary education, and only about
2.5 percent for tertiary education Social returns are lower --about 11 percent in basic education, 2 percent
in upper secondary and 1 percent in tertiary education. The estimates point to positive, but quite low
post-basic returns to education in Albania. In interpreting these results, two things should be noted. First,
the estimates of returns are based on a 1996 Living Standard Measurement Survey that oversampled the
recipients of the social assistance. This population may differ from the general population in
unobservable characteristics that are reflected in lower estimates of wage returns to education. Second,
both private and social returns of education are underestimated. Private returns are underestimated
because not all of the benefits of education are reflected in earnings. As analyses for other transition
economies have shown and table A4.3 confirms for tertiary education for Albania, the more educated are
advantaged in their greater ability to find a job if unemployed; to prevent being laid-off; and to change
jobs without intervening spells of unemployment (Orazem and Vodopivec, 1997; Sorm and Terrell,
1999). The estimates of social returns do not include externalities, such as improving health, promoting
the institutions of civil society, improving social equity, strengthening national cohesiveness, or lowering
crime rates. Nonetheless, except for basic education, the returns to education are extremely low relative
to other low- and middle-income countries in the Europe/Central Asia and the Middle East and North
Africa regions. (See Table A4.2.)
- 55 -



Figure A4.1: Returns to Education, 1996
18-
14                                                                    U Private
12  _.    }                                                              retums
*Social
6  _        |                                                          returns
4
2.
0
Basic          Upper          Upper         University
secondary      secondary
(general)    (vocational)
Source: Table A4.1 and computations based on 1996 Living Standard Measurement Survey by
-Geremia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec. "Efficiency, Equity, and the Fiscal Impact of Education
in Albania." Paper prepared for the Albania Education Sector Study. Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, 1999
Table A4.1: Estimates of earnings function, 1996
(Dependent variable: logarithm of monthly wage)
Education (excluded category: basic)                  Parameter             t-value
Estimate
Uncompleted basic                                           -0.38*               (-2.9)
Upper secondary - general                                    0.12*               (2.1)
Upper secondary - vocational                                0.18**               (4.2)
University                                                  0.31**               (5.7)
Age (excluded category: 20 to 30)
Below 20                                                     0.02                (0.2)
30 to 40                                                     0.08                (1.8)
40 to 50                                                     0.08                (1.8)
50 to 60                                                     0.08                (1.1)
Over 60                                                      0.12                (0.5)
Gender                                                       -0.19**              (-4.9)
Urban area                                                    0.08*               (2.2)
Type of job contract
(excluded category: regular appointment)
Fixed-term                                                    -.06              (-0.9)
Short-term                                                   0.02                (0.5)
Industry
(excluded category: agriculture)
Manufacturing                                                0.02                (0.2)
Construction                                                 0.06                (0.2)
Business services                                            0.03                (0.3)
Education                                                    -0.08              (-0.7)
Health                                                       -0.16               (-1.5)
Public administration                                        -0.06              (-0.6)
Source: Table A4.1 and computations based on Albanian 1996 Employment and Welfare Survey by
Geremia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec. "Efficiency, Equity, and the Fiscal lmpact of Education in
Albania." Paper prepared for the Albania Education Sector Study. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
1999
Notes: ** Significant at l percent level; * Significant at 5 percent level; R2 = 0.18 (number of
observations: 514)
- 56 -



Table A4.2: Returns to Education, Albania and Comparison Countries
|   Private returns             Social returns
A. Albania, 1996
Earnings function          Short-cut method
Basic*                                           12.7                     16.410.7
Upper secondary (general)                        3.0                       2.42.0
Upper secondary (vocational)                     4.5                       2.62.4
University                                       2.6                       2.21.3
B. Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Region
Primary                                          17.4                        15.5
Secondary                                        15.9                       11.2
Tertiary                                         21.7                        10.6
Sources: Calculations for Albania by Geremia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec. "Efficiency, Equity, and the Fiscal Impact
of Education in Albania." Paper prepared for the Albania Education Sector Study. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
1999; data for Europe, Middle East, and North Africa: Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review,
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1995.
* Calculations for basic education assume 3 years of forgone eamings.
Table A4.3: Unemployment rates by level of education
l 1993       1994       1995       1996        1997
Basic                                     52.1      48.5        48.4       49.4       49.0
(primary and lower secondary) or
lower
Upper secondary                           45.4      48.8        49.5       48.7       48.5
Tertiary                                  2.6        2.7        2.2        2.0         2.6
Unemployment rate                         4.5        5.4        7.6        8.1         6.7
(based on registered
unemployment)
Sources: Data from Albania Statistical Office; calculations by Gereniia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec. "Efficiency,
Equity, and the Fiscal Impact of Education in Albania." Paper prepared for the Albania Education Sector Study.
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1999.
Component Cost Effectiveness
The cost effectiveness of components can be assessed in two ways. One is whether the expected benefits
from the components exceed their costs. All components of the project are designed to improve the
quality of education in Albania. (See sections A, B, and C of the PAD.) Their impact on the costs of
education are estimated to be comparatively low (see below). Thus, the project is expected to yield
benefits that exceed costs.
The second basis for assessing benefits and costs is to ask whether each component has been designed to
secure the greatest benefits for the least cost. The strategic arguments for the objectives and components
of ER have been presented in sections A, B, C, and D of the PAD. Thus, the question here is whether
alternative designs were evaluated from the perspective of securing similar benefits at less cost. In
general, this discussion cannot be quantitative, but it does follow the logic of costlbenefit analysis.
Component 1. (Strengthening Policy and Program Design and Management). A major objective of this
component is cost-effectiveness. It will help the MOES plan in ways that assess cost tradeoffs between
policy alternatives and the fiscal sustainability of candidate reform programs. A different question is
whether the design of this component is cost-effective. The international knowledge base for designing
this component is weak, in part because country-specific conditions are important in determining the
- 57 -



functions targeted by this component are the generic functions targeted by the Bank's civil service reform
project, this component for the MOES was able to take advantage of the considerable work already done
to tailor a design for the Albanian civil service reform. Second, terms of reference for the consultant team
stress a Bayesian strategy--i.e., modifying activities on the basis of prior information and experience--in
order to adjust the design to increase the chances of increasing effectiveness at less cost. Third, to
minimize the cost to Government of this component, technical assistance will first be sought locally,
international technical assistance only being used when local resources are not adequate.
Component 2. (Education Management Information System). Section D. 1 (project alternatives
considered and reasons for rejection) presents the cost/benefit thinking for this component. Essentially,
the decision was made to build the EMIS slowly, both in terms of substantive and geographic coverage.
The significant technical and training tasks implied in meeting the conditions for a cost/effective EMIS
argued for a strategy of "securing the base" with a smaller group of users before extending it outward or
introducing a new application.
Component 3. (Learning Assessments and Examinations). In terms of reducing public sector costs, the
preferable design option for this component is to privatize the assessment/ examination function. Under
this option, organizations that design, admninister, and score examinations would probably charge
registration and other fees to cover the costs of their services. Students would probably be charged in the
case of university entrance examinations; Government, in the case of pretertiary examinations. Normally
the MOES would tender for the design, administration, and analysis of learning assessments. It would be
assumed that competition between service providers would reduce the price and increase the quality of
these assessments. However, this design possibility is not feasible at this time. International standards
for designing, administering, and analysing examinations and assessments are well developed. They
require technically sophisticated personnel and organizational arrangements that simply do not yet exist in
Albania. Some capacity has to be built before being able to entertain the longer-term objective of using at
least a mixed private-public arrangement to deliver these services.
Component 4. (School Rehabilitation). Several design decisions were made to maximize benefits
relative to costs. The first problem was assuring that it made economic sense to rehabilitate the schools
selected for rehabilitation. For example, it makes little sense to allocate scarce resources to rehabilitating
village schools that should be closed because of population migrations out of these villages. The school
mapping data base helps rationalize the physical infrastructure for the country, and this data base will be
used to allocate funds between districts. Allocations within districts will be based on this data base and
additional criteria.
The second problem was assuring that Government got value for their rehabilitation "dollar". Under the
Bank's first education project, the quality of school rehabilitation was unacceptably variable. Two
decisions were made here to maximize effectiveness relative to costs. One was to require the
development and use of economically rationalized school and furniture design standards and bills of
quantities for all rehabilitation activities. Because they standardize materials, sizes, and designs,
standards reduce purchase costs. They also allow more detailed specifications in tendering processes and
more exact monitoring of whether bid winners are meeting these specifications. Analyses of cost-
effectiveness tradeoffs among building codes, design standards, and specifications for bills of quantity are
internalized in the tasks of developing these standards.
Second, it was decided to privatize the following services: the provision of rehabilitation designs, the
preparation of tendering documents for the PIU for construction services, and quality assurance. Private
architectural/engineering firms will competitively bid to provide these services.
As discussed in section D. 1 (project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection), it had been hoped
that ER could be used to stem the tide of the accumulating deferred bill for school rehabilitation by
mobilizing more resources for the maintenance that prevents the need for major repairs. However, for
reasons discussed in D. 1, it was decided to address this issue in the context of the public expenditure
-58 -



review for Albania and of joint GOA and international work on decentralization. The maintenance issue
is not one just of adequate funds. It is also an issue of decision-making power. The school does not
receives a budget allocation for maintenance. The allocation of maintenance funds is a multi-stage
process. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) gives a block grant for operations and maintenance (covering
health, public services, and culture in addition to education) to the Ministry of Local Government
(MoLG). The MoLG then distributes the block grant among the communes and municipalities of Albania
who are free to allocate the block grant across operations and maintenance of the above named sectors.
This arrangement encourages bargaining and multi-party "deals": the schools with the municipalities and
communes for O&M funds; the different sectors with the municipalities and communes for their fair
share; and the municipalities and communes with the MoLG.
Component 5. (Privatization of State-owned Textbook Enterprises and Textbook Procurement). The
whole point of this component is to drive down costs and to drive up textbook quality. It is organized
around two design decisions. First, if the MOES uses competitive processes to procure textbook
publishing and distribution services, taking the State Textbook Publishing House and the Textbook
Distribution Enterprise to the point of sale can start establishing a competitive market for textbook
publishing and distribution. (Privatization per se does not translate into a competitive market.) Second,
on the basis of the experience with the Bank's post-conflict grant, using international competitive bidding
to procure printing services should dramatically reduce unit printing costs by as much as 50 percent and
increase printing quality.
Fiscal Sustainability of Project Components
Fiscal sustainability arises as an issue for only two of the five components: the Education Management
Information System and Learning Assessments and Examinations. The first component, Strengthening
Policy and Program Design and Management, will establish a new unit (a planning unit) and new
positions. However, the financing of these generic units and positions is already scheduled under the civil
service reform for all Albanian core and line ministries . The School Rehabilitation component will
reduce the accumulated deferred deficit and, for the first few years after the schools are rehabilitated,
maintenance costs for these schools. Starting to compete textbook publishing and distribution services,
bringing the STPH and TDE to the point of sale, and using ICB to procure existing textbooks, will reduce,
not increase, costs.
For the EMIS, the annual recurrent costs to Government are estimated to average US$125,000 per year
for the first 3 years and US$155,000 per year in subsequent years. They occur in these categories:
- Maintaining computer hardware and network
- Replacing computing equipment
- Providing consumables and supplies
- Maintaining and upgrading software
- Financing new staff positions (at least 5 new staff positions in MOES and 2 new staff positions in
each district, including a computer operator/programmer and a planning officer)
- Training new and existing staff
- Managers' time for data analysis and interpretation, brainstormring and decision preparation
The recurrent costs of a fully functioning CEAE are estimated to average $150,000 per year. This figure
includes staff, maintenance and repairs, and the administration and logistics for all examinations
(university and grades 8 and 12) and national assessments. Since the CEAE is expected to be fully
functioning only after ER has closed, the recurrent cost impact of the CEAE will emerge gradually over
the next 4-5 years. The CEAE might begin cost recovery for university entrance examinations by
charging registration fees. However, they cannot charge students for grade 8 and 12 testing or for
learning assessments that monitor the system's learning outcomes.
- 59 -



The total fiscal impact of these two components is relatively small: 0.4 percent of total recurrent
education expenditures in FY1998. At the same time, the already extremely constrained recurrent cost
budget for education raises questions about the sustainability of any additional costs. This larger fiscal
problem has to be solved in the context of the Public Expenditure Review and discussions between
Albania's MOF and the World Bank and IMF on increasing allocations to education.
References
Hanushek Eric A. and Victor Lavy. School Quality, Achievement Bias, and Dropout Behavior in Egypt.
The World Bank, LSMS Working Paper No. 107, 1994.
Mignat, Alain and Jee-peng Tan. The Full Social Returns to Education: Estimates Based on Countries'
Economic Growth Performance. HCD Working Paper No. 73, 1996.
Orazem, Peter and Milan Vodopivec. Value of Human Capital in Transition to Market: Evidence from
Slovenia, European Economic Review , Vol. 41, pp. 893-903, 1997.
Sorm, Vit and Katherine Terrell. A Comparative Look at Labor Mobility in the Czeck Republic: Where
Have All the Workers Gone?, The William Davidson Institute, Working Paper No.140.
World Bank. Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review. 1995.
- 60 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Years Ending
_____IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD          _____
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         4.1      5.3      4.0      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.1      0.2     0.3       0.3      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs        4.2      5.5      4.3      0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing            4.2      5.5      4.3      0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 3.5      4.5      3.4      0.6      0.0      0.0     0.0
Government               0.7      1.0     0.9       0.3      0.0      0.0     0.0
Central              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Provincial           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Co-financiers            0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Others                   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
Others                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Others                   0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Others                   0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Others                   0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Project Financing   4.2     5.5      4.3      0.9       0.0     0.0      0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD    _
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        4.1      5.3      4.0      0.6      0.0     0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs         0.1      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs       4.2      5.5      4.3      0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing           4.2      5.5      4.3      0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Government              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Central             0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.3     0.3      0.3
Provincial           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Co-financiers           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
- 61 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Tables A, Al and B):
Procurement under the Credit will follow in all respects the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1998, and
January 1999, for Goods and Works, and the Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by World Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997, revised January 1999. For procurement under
the Credit, the Borrower would use: (i) the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and
(ii) the Bank's standard request for proposal for selection of consultants.
Implementation: A Capacity Assessment has been done for the Project, and the risk rating is high.
However, it is recommended that a project management expert be recruited to support the Project
Implementation Unit (PTJ) on a full-time basis for the first year of the Project. After one full year of
implementation, the Bank would review the PIU's capacity to effectively manage the project.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the April 15, 2000 issue of
Development Business, announcing works, goods and consultant servi-ces to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any
complementary information from the PIU. The Specific Procurement Notice will be published at a later
date.
Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Printing of textbooks (US$2.4 million) and school furniture
(US$ 1.0 million) for primary and secondary schools will be procured using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" (January 1995, amended in September 1997 and January 1999). The printing of
textbooks and school furniture procured through ICB, will consist of four tenders (2 for textbooks and 2
for furniture). Another ICB package will be for office equipment and furniture for three of the offices
(EMIS, CAEC and Policy/Planning), valued at US$137,000. ICB will account for about 95% of the total
value of the goods.
International Shopping (IS). IS procedures will be used for contracts for equipment estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 (i.e., office and educational equipment, vehicle) where the cost of ICB will clearly
outweigh price advantages. The aggregate value of IS is estimated at US$ 176,500 equivalent.
International shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from two different countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$25,000 per contract may be purchased
on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local
supplers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Aggregate amount of national shopping is estimated at
US$39,200 equivalent.
Direct Contracting (DC). Direct contracting (aggregate US$26,300) will be used for purchase of
specific books, periodicals and learning materials for the MOES and related agencies.
- 62 -



Civil Works
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be used for contracts for civil works
estimated to cost more than US$200,000. It is estimated that there will be two tenders (aggregate US$1.4
million) for rehabilitation of schools in areas where schools are being consolidated due to shifts in student
population.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Procedures for NCB will be used for contracts for civil works
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (i.e., rehabilitation of specified schools country-wide) and
refurbishment of Assessment and Evaluation Center. NCB aggregate is estimated at US$2.7 million.
ECA sample bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. Bids will be advertised in the national
press and/or official gazette, opened publicly, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Initial site
surveys, to be carried out by engineers or other qualified experts, are provided for under the Project.
Minor Works (MW). MW will involve contracts for less than US$100,000 (aggregate US$1.9 million).
Due to: (i) the small contract values (US$ 10,000-US$100,000 equivalent); (ii) works that are
geographically scattered and spread over time, due to, in part, climatic conditions; and (iii) labor-intensive
techniques, procurement of small-scale civil works would be procured under lump sum fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation and according to Bank Guidelines. Contractors and firms would be
required to have experience in similar works in the last two years. The PTJ would use sample bidding
docuements developed in the ECA Region. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowerst price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract.
Consulting Services and Training
About 90 percent of the consultants required by the Project shall be engaged on Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS), and the other 10 percent shall be engaged by other procedures. Total consulting
services and related training shall account for a value of US$2.1 million, or 19 percent of project
procurement. For consulting contract shortlists, expressions of interest will be obtained by advertisement
in Development Business, and specific notices will be issued in Development Business for all consulting
assignments exceeding US$200,000. In addition, advertisement will be made in the national press.
Individual consultants shall be selected in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,dated January 1997 and revised in
January 1999. The selection of individuals will be on the basis of comparison of qualifications among
those expressing interest.
Consultant services would be procured for studies and training in the areas of education policy and
analysis, program and budget planning, management information systems, textbook privatization,
assessment and evaluation, and project management. The PIU will use Bank standard contracts for all
consultant services contracts. The following procurement procedures will be used:
1. Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting firms for studies in
education policy, analysis and planning, management information systems, assessment and
evaluation, and textbook privatization. Estimated total value is US$3,630,000.
2. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection of an auditor to carry out audit of
the Project. Estimated total value is US$24,000.
3. Individual Consultants IC). would be used for the following assignments: (a) Project Management -
(PIU Director, Procurement Officer, Financial Officer, Architect, Local Specialist,
Assistant/Interpreter) as well as assignments requiring specialized expertise. The PRI technical staff
will be hired as individual consultants to ensure continuity of technical expertise obtained through
previous work on IDA-financed projects and related training. They will be selected based on
- 63 -



comparison of qualifications and will not have civil servant status. There are no project management
firms as such in Albania with experience in carrying out the project management functions for World
Bank-financed projects. (b) Developing standards for civil works construction/rehabilitationi and
school furniture. Two individual consultants would be hired for these assignments. (c) An external
project management specialist would be hired to work intensively with the PIU in the initial stages of
the project, and on a declining basis through the life of the project. Estimated total value for IC is
US$530,000.
4. Staff Training. Other than the training aspects being included in the technical assistance contracts
reflected above, stand-alone training will also be financed, in the amount of US$128,800. This will
involve training for PITJ staff in project management, procurement and finance. A training program
will be finalized in accordance with procedures agreed by the Bank. Expenses for staff training will
be disbursed with prior approval of the Bank.
Recurrent Costs
Project-related incremental school maintenance, staff travel and subsistence, annual project audit, vehicle
insurance, operation and maintenance costs for computer and other office equipment, office maintenance
and supplies will be on the basis of annual budgets. They will total US$848,500. These costs will be
financed by the IDA Credit on a declining basis through the life of the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B):
In compliance with Bank procedures, standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement
financed by the Bank. The Bank's prior review of procurement will cover the first three IS, NS, NCB and
MW packages, and in particular, the following: (a) master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and
updated cost estimates; (b) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; (c) all direct contracting;
and (d) all consulting contracts over US$100,000 with firms and over US$50,000 with individual
consultants. With respect to prior review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of
the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this prior review will cover about 60 percent of the value
of all contracts combined for civil works, equipment and technical assistance financed by the Bank. One
in five contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews. Progress of procurement activities will
be monitored by the PIU. Periodic reports on procurement progress, including variations in schedule, will
be submitted to the Bank on a regular basis. Details of the procurement plan will be discussed during the
Project Launch Workshop scheduled for September 2000.
- 64 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement       Method
Expenditure Category         IC        .  NCB             Other 2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                       1.40          2.70             1.90          0.00           6.00
(1.10)        (2.00)          (1.40)         (0.00)         (4.50)
2. Goods                       3.50          0.00             0.20           0.00          3.70
(3.00)        (0.00)           (0.10)        (0.00)         (3.10)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00             4.30          0.00           4.30
(0.00)        (0.00)          (4.20)         (0.00)         (4.20)
4. Incremental Operating       0.00          0.00             0.50          0.40           0.90
Costs                         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.20)         (0.00)        (0.20)
Total                  1   4.90           2.70             6.90           0.40          14.90
(4.10)          (2.00)        _ (5.90)         (0.00)        (12.00)
I/     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/     Includes Minor Works (aggregate US$1.9 million) of less than US$100,000; Intemational Shopping
(aggregate US$0.2 million) of less than US$100,000; National Shopping (aggregate US$0.04 million) of
less than US$25,000; Direct Contracting (aggregate US$0.05 million) for purchase of proprietary items for
reasons of compatibility and standardization. Incremental Operating Costs (aggregate US$0.9 million),
financed by IDA on a declining basis, relating to managing the project.
-65 -



Procurement Packag ingand Plan of Procurement
1                   2          3            4           5          6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description            Type    Number of   Estimate   Procure-                  Prepare Tender
slicestitems/   Cost       ment    Docs Invitation to Bid, Award Contract,
sub-packages               Method              Contract Completion
I. Civil Works
School Rehabilitation          | CW          2            1.4        ICB   | Jun00   I Aug 00    Oct00     Apr 01
School Rehabilitation            CW          15           2.6        NCB          Throughout the life of the project
School Rehabilitation            CW         25            1.8        MW           Throu ghout the life of the project
PIU, EMS, P/P Units              CW          2            0.1        MW        Jun 00     Jul 00    Aug 00   Dec 00
CEAE Center                   _CW             I           0.1        NCR       Oct 00    Dec 00   Feb 01    Jun 01
HI. Goods
Textbooks                         G          2            2.4        ICB       Oct 00    Nov 00   Feb 01    Apr 01
Feb01    Apr01    Jun 01    Aug 01
Furniture                         G          2            1.0        ICB       Jun 00    Aug 00   Oct 00    Dec 00
Nov 00    Jan 01    Mar 01   May 01
PIU Office Equipment              G           1           0.05        IS       Jun 00     Jul 00    Aug 00   Sept 00
PIU Office Furniture              G           1           0.01        NS       Jun 00     Jul 00    Aug 00   Sept 00
EMIS Computer Spare Parts         G           1           0.04        IS       Jan 01     Feb 01    Apr 01    Jun 01
PIU Vehicle                       G           1           0.03        IS       Jun 00     Jul 00    Aug 00   Sept00
Office Equipment- EMIS, CEAE,     G           1           0.14       ICB       Jul 00    Sept 00   Oct 00    Dec 00
P/P Units                                             .
Books, periodicals for CEAE      GCS       Several        0.01        DC           Throu  out the life of the project
EMIS Data Entry Forms             G           1           0.01        DC       Aug 00    Sept 00   Octp00    Dec00
Materials for Teacher Use         G        Several        0.03        NS       Aug 00    Sept 00   Sept 00   Sept 00
Textbook Publishing Computers    I G   I      1           0.03        IS       Sept00    Oct 00   Nov 00 [ Dec 00
_________ _H III. Consultant Services and Training
Standards CW & Furniture          CS         2            0.10        IC       Jun00    Sept00   Nov00    Apr01
MOES: Policy/Planning Analysis    CS          1           0.40      QCBS       Jun00    Aug00    Oct00    Jun01
MOES: Design of Ed. Initiatives   CS          1           0.30      QCBS       Oct 00    Dec 00   Feb 01    Dec01
MOES: Ed. Initiatives             CS          4           2.0        QCBS      May 01    Jul 01    Sept 01   Sept 03
Implementation                 L___III__
Textbook publishing              CCSI         1           0.15      QCBS       Sept00    Nov00   Jan 01    Jan03
Assessment and Evaluation         Cs          1           0.28      QCBS       Oct 00    Jan 01    Mar01    Mar 03
Software development EMIS         CS          1           0.50      QCBS       Oct 00    Jan 01    Mar 01    Mar 02
(MOES                                   _              _            _                    _         _         _
External Management Advisor PIU    CS         1           0.28        IC       May 00    Aug 00   Oct 00    Sept 03
Training courses and workshops    CS       Several        0.13       Other         Throughout the life of the project
PIU/Project Mgt.                I      I                         I I_ _
PIU Staff                         CS          5           0.15        IC     Consultant contracts throughout the life of the
I________________________________   ______   ______________  I_________   I ________   project.
_____________________________   ______           IV. Recurrent Costs
School Fumiture Maintenance      Other     Various        0.08       Other    Series of small procurements throughout the
(Incremental)                   _                      _           ________life of the project
EMIS Operating Costs             Other     Various        0.12       Other    Series of small procurements throughout the
(Incremental)                   _                      _           ________life of the project
Assessment and Evaluation Ctr.   Other     Various        0.10       Other    Series of small procurements throughout the
Incremental Operating Costs                            _           _________             life of the project
School Maintenance Costs         Other     Various        0.34       Other    Series of small procurements throughout the
(Incremental)                   _                      __________life of the project
MOES Policy/Planning Unit        Other     Various        0.13       Other    Series of small procurements throughout the
Increm. Operating Costs         _                                                         life of the project
Audit                             CS          1           0.02        LC          Throughout the life of the project.
Operational Expenses PIU         Other     Various        0.04       Other   Series of small procurements throughout the
! ______________________________   I________ I_I_11_                        1            life   of  the  project
Project Total                                   14.9      _         ___
1 Name of Package of contract. 2 CW of civil works; G for goods; CS for consulting services. 3 Number of slices, major items of sub-packages
expected in the package. 4. Expressed in US$ '000. 5. ICB, NCB, IS, NS, (for major civil works), MW (for minor works), QBCS (for quality
and cost based firns, LCS (for least cost selection of consultant firmns), CQ (for individual assignments), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of
administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
- 66 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant
Services
Expenditure                              Selection   Method                         Total
Category      QCBS   QBS    SFB          LCS         CQ       Other    N.B.F.    cost
A. Firms           3.60    0.00     0.00      0.02       0.00      0.00      0.00       3.62
(3.60)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.02)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.62)
B. Individuals     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.66      0.00      0.66
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.66)    (0.00)    (0.66)
Total  3.60    0.00     0.00      0.02       0.00      0.66       0.00      4.28
1 (3.60)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.02)    (0.00)    (0.66)    (0.00)    (4.28)
Including contingencies
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold.          Procurement              Prior Reviw
Expend      Category      (US$ thousands)          Meth,d                 (US$ nJmlions)
1. Works                      <$200,000               ICB               All US$1.2 M
$200,000              NCB               First Three US$0.3 M
<$100,000               MW                First Three US$0.07M
2. Goods                         100,000               ICB               All - US$3.5 M
>$100,000                IS               First Three US$0.08 M
>$25,000               NS                First Three US$0.04 M
DC               All US$0.03 M
3. Services                     $200,000              QCBS               All - US$3.8 M
Technical Assistance and       <$50,000                LC                All - US$0.02 M
Training                       <$50,000                 IC               All - US$0.53 M
4. Incremental Operating                              Other
Costs
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      $ 9.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact
the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Civil Works                                                 75%
A. School Rehabilitation          3.91
B. Other Works                    0.13
Goods                               2.77       100% of foreign expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory);
and 85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Technical Assistance and Training                          100%
A. Initiatives Implementation     1.80
B. Other Technical Assistance/    2.02
Training
Recurrent Costs                     0.17       50% up to August 1,2002; and 25%
thereafter
Refinancing of PPF                  0.50
Unallocated                         0.70
Total Project Costs                 12.00     i
Total                               12.00    l
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Allocation of creditproceeds (Table C):
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. The disbursement profile of
the Project has been based on experience gained during the previous IDA-financed project in the
education sector in Albania. The Project has been designed withing the capacity of the MOES to execute
over a four year period, and Credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed within four years of Credit
Signing.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
While acceptable'disbursement mechanism based on Project Management Reports (PMRs) is not in place,
disbursements will take place using the traditional disbursement mechanism based on SOEs. All
disbursements against contracts for goods and works costing US$500,000 or more equivalent, and
services and training for consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more, and individual consultants costing
US$50,000 or more will be full documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) with the exception of the first two International Shopping
(IS), National Shopping (NS), and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) packages and the first Minor
Works (MW) package. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to the
Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank
of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement
and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit and Borrower counterpart financing would
be managed by the PIU in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
- 68 -



Special account:
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account denominated in US dollars for
the PIU. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$500,000. However, during the
initial stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$200,000 will be deposited in the Special Account.
When the aggregate amount of disbursement realizes SDR2.5 million, the amount deposited in the Special
Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of US$500,000. The minimum amount of each
application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted
by the PFR on a monthly basis or when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever
comes first. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement
Percentage of
Credit Amount
Subject to Prior
Civil Works          NCB         Minor Works        ICB                          Review
Less than      Less than      More than
Procurement thresholds   <US$200,000    <US100,000     US$200,000
Aggregates            US$2,700,000   US$1,900,000   US$1,400,000
Prior review         First 3 packages First 3 packages    All                           90%
Other
Goods              ICB             IS             NS          Methods
Greater than    Less than       Less than
Procurement thresholds   >US$100,000   <US$ 10 0,000    <US$25,000
Aggregates            US$3,500,000     US$176,500      US$39,200    US$26,300
Prior review               All          The first 3    The first 3      All             90%
Other
Methods
Consultants         QBCS          Individual        LCS         (Training)
Aggregates            US$3,630,000    US$530,000       US$24,000    US$128,800
Prior Review: All TORs, RFPs, Evaluation reports, and Contracts.
Ex-post Review: In-depth review of procurement activities during supervision missions. Yearly financial audits by acceptable firm selected
competitively.
- 69 -



Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
With the assistance of an experienced international implementation advisor included in the TA portion of
the project, the PIU will have the capacity to conduct procurement under the proposed Education Reform
Project. At the national level, the country has a transparent public procurement system with an independent
public procurement agency. Under the second IDF grant for the procurement institutional development, the
Bank assisted the Government in preparing standard bidding documents, and in providing initial
procurement training to about 500 public officials throughout the country. Nevertheless, the national
environment in which the PIU operates is not conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes. It
is, therefore, recommended that despite the strengths of the PIU, the prior review thresholds indicated above
be applied.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) currently is implementing the School Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building Project and is headed by a Director who is has familiarity with the Bank procurement
requirements and has recent experience in procuring the printing of textbooks using ICB procedures. Other
staff include a procurement officer who attended the ILO Procurement Course in Turin, a full-time financial
specialist, and a assistantltranslator. For the proposed Project, the PIU will have the same number of staff,
but with the addition of an architect. The PIU will be responsible for overall project management,
coordination and planning, including the preparation of the action plan, procurement, supervision, financial
management and reporting. The PIU will report to and coordinate with the Minister of Education and
Science. The existing PIU is adequately equipped for the purposes of the on-going project, but will receive
upgrade in office equipment under the proposed Project.
Additional support will be provided by an international consultant who will be employed as an
Implementation
Advisor and by the Procurement Acredited Staff person located in the World Bank's Office in Tirana. The
Implementation Advisor will be experienced in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. A
LACI compliant financial management system and Procurement Monitoring System will be procured and
installed in the PIU.
The PIU has maintained up-to-date project and procurement records for the School Rehabilitation and
Capacity Building Project, and is expected to do the same for this project. WB Standard bidding
documents documents for goods, works and services will be used for all procurement.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: CPAR prepared in
March 1997 is in the process of being updated.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Yes       No X
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: September 2000
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: 15 April 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business - Yes for both printing
of Textbooks, school furniture and QCBS assignments
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes: X No.
Domestic Preference for Works:  Yes:X   No:
Retroactive financing Yes   No X
Advance procurement  Yes X     No   Explain: Additional PIU equipment will be purchased and the
consulting assignment for MIS System will be let, using PPF funds.
Co-financing: There will be no co-financing apart from the Government of Albania's Contribution of
US$2.9 rnillion (inclusive of taxes).
- 70 -



Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project: Education Reform Project. Name: Leonardo Concepcion (Ext. 32859) or Ronald Isaacson
Ext: (355-42-40587, Tirana)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Initial review of procurement
documentation, and as authorized by the PTL.
Note: A detailed procurement Capacity Assessment has not been completedfor the proposed Education Reform Project at this time. The above
general comments were based on the procurement capacity assessment of THE SECOND IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (SIDP)
in April 1999 and discussions with the Project Operations Officer, RM Tirana and the PIU Director of the School Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building Project (SRCB). However, since the procurement and financial management will be strengthened by an International Specialists and
the Printing of Textbooks and schoolfariniture will be procured using ICB procedures, and approximately 50% of the civil works will be
contracted using NCB procedures, the limits above should remain in effect
ASSESSMENT OF THE CAPACITY OF THE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT
Procurement/Contract Management System
ACTION PLAN
Deficiencies/Inadequacies:
The procurement officer who will be responsible for the procurement function has no previous experience
on World Bank Financed Projects.
Procurement/Contract Management Action Plan
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound procurement/contract management system capable of
PMR- Based Disbursement, the following time-bound action plan is presented.
Action                                  Deadline         Comments
Include training and capacity building procurement for
Education Reform PIU in TORs for consulting services for             04/17/00
the Project Implementation Advisor.
Hire International Implementation Specialist (IIS) to start on       05/31/00
the job training of PIU Procurement Officer and Financial
Officer.                                                           _______ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IIS will prepare formal training plan for PIU Procurement
Officer, including participation of PIU Procurement Officer          06/15/00
in the next available course by ILO, Turin, Italy or elsewhere.
Purchase LACI approved financial management software
with PMS reporting module.                                           04/07/00
- 71 -



ALBANIA
Proposed Education Reform Project
Assessment of the Capacity of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to lmplement Procurement
1.   General Information and Summary
1.1. Date of Report: January 2000
1.2. Basis of Report. This report has been prepared in line with the requirements set forth in the
OCSPR memorandum dated August 11, 1998, and concerns the assessment of the capacity of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to implement procurement under the Education Reform Project. The overall
procurement capacity of the Government of Albania, e.g., laws passed, procurement climate, etc. is based
upon the procurement capacity assessment report prepared for THE SECOND IRRIGATION AND
DRAINAGE PROJECT (SIDP) in April 1999. For the ER Project, the specific project-related conditions
are based upon discussions with the Project Officer, RM Tirana and the PIIJ Director of the ER.
Attachment 1 summarizes the findings and actions necessary to improve the procurement system in the
country.
1.3. Scope of the Review. This review covers the assessment of the PTU's capacity to conduct the
different phases of the procurement cycle under the proposed Project. It addresses the legal aspects;
procurement cycle management; organization and functions; support and control systems; record keeping;
staffing; general procurement environment; and general risk assessment.
1.4. Project Description. The Education Reform Project consists of the following components:
1. Policy Design and Management. Support institutional strengthening of the MOES to help the
Ministry take charge of education sector policy design and implementation: (a) targeted policy advice and
training would be provided; (b) the statistical and information data bases for the sector would be
expanded to support planning and priority setting and to publish a "Statistical Report Card on Albania
Education" for the broad public; (c) the accounting department would be converted to a budgeting
department and (d) establishment of a Project Implementation Unit to manage the project activities.
(minor office refurbishment, computer/office equipment, technical assistance and training).
2. Education Management Information System. Support for establishment of a management
information system for MOES. Software applications will be developed, and staff trained. An EMIS unit
will be established to manage development of the system (rninor office refurbishment, computer and
office equipment, technical assistance and training).
3. Assessments and Examinations. Build capacity of Center for Educational Assessment and
Examinations. (minor office refurbishment, office equipment, technical assistance, training.)
4. School Rehabilitation. Selected schools will be rehabilitated, and basic furniture installed,
based on criteria determined by MOES. Building codes, design standards, and specifications for bills of
quantity will be developed. (Civil works, school furniture, technical assistance).
5. Textbooks. Complete privatization of State Textbook Publishing House and the Textbook
Distribution Enterprise, and procurement of textbooks for primary and secondary schools. (technical
assistance, training, goods).
The project overall, at an estimated cost of US$14.9 million (US$12.0 million equivalent IDA financing)
includes works, technical assistance, training and goods to be procured in accordance with the Bank
procurement guidelines.
- 72 -



2.   Procurement Implementation
2.1. Existing Procurement Capacity. The Project Implementation Unit currently implementing the
School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project is headed by a Director who is somewhatfamiliar
with the Bank procurement requirements, and a procurement officer who has received training at ILO
training center in Turin. Other PIU staff include. a financial specialist who needs to be trained in LACI
requirements, and an assistant/interpreter. For the proposed Education Reform Project, the PIU will be
strengthened with the addition of an architect to oversee rehabilitation aspects of the project. In addition,
the project will provide for support of an international implementation specialist on a declining basis
throughout the project life. This implementation specialist will have experience in WB procurement and
financial procedures, and will provide assistance to the PIU in all aspects of project implementation,
including procurement andfinancial management. The implementation specialist will assist the PIU in
the procurement and installation of a LACI compliantfinancial management system and Procurement
Monitoring System. Additional support will be provided by the PAS located in the World Bank's Office in
Tirana. The PIU will be responsible for overall project management, coordination and planning,
including the preparation of the action plan, procurement of design, goods, civil works and supervision,
financial management and reporting. The PIU will report to and coordinate with the Minister of
Education and Science. The existing PIU is reasonably well-equipped.
2.2  The PIJ has maintained up-to-date project and procurement records. WB Standard bidding
documents bidding documents for goods, textbooks, works and services or documents acceptable to the
WB will be used for all procurements under the proposed project.
3.   Reconmnendation for Prior Review Thresholds
3.1  With the assistance of the implementation specialist, the PIU will have the capacity to conduct
procurement under the proposed Project. At the national level, the country has a transparent public
procurement system with an independent public procurement agency. Under the second IDF grant for
procurement institutional development, the Bank assisted the Government in preparing standard bidding
documents, and in providing initial procurement training to about 500 public officials throughout the
country. Nevertheless, the national environment in which the PIll operates is not conducive to fair and
transparent procurement processes. It is, therefore, recommended that despite the strengths of the PIU,
the prior review thresholds indicated below be applied.
Goods:
All ICB Contracts: US $ 100,000 or more
IS Contracts: less than US $ 100,000 -- First 3
NS Contracts: less than US $25,000 -- First 3
Works:
-ICB contracts: more than US$200,000 per contract -- All
-NCB contracts: less than US $ 200,000 per contract -- First 3
Minor Works: less than US $ 100,000 -- First 3
Consulting Services
All Consultant Contracts with firms and individuals
At project rmid-term review, a review of the procurement thresholds should also be conducted with a view
to determining whether an adjustment in these thresholds would be necessary.
- 73 -



3.2  It is further recommended that during the project launch workshop, adequate time be devoted to
procurement under the project, not only to discuss the procurement arrangements under the new project
but also to make the PIU and MOES staff aware of the changes in the Bank's procurement and consultant
guidelines.
3.3. Updating of the Albania CPAR. The Albania CPAR dated March 10, 1997, is in the process of
being updated. This will enable the Bank to learn about the actual working of the procurement system
during the last three years and to make recommendations to the Government to improve the system.
Attachments (Summary of Finding and Actions)
- 74-



ALBANIA
Education Reform Project
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Sunmnary of Findings and Actions
Item Assessed           Assessment                               Risk Assessment
Null  Poor Fair  Satis-    Major Weakness                            Actions        Proposed
factory                     Low  Ave. High        Proposed      Completion
I__________________   _______  D ate
(a) Legal Aspects           =__==__
(i) Laws &                        X                                       X
Regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures         -     X                                 =    X       =
(iii) Internal Codes              X                                       X
and Manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle                                                           X
Mgmt.
(i) General handling              X
(ii) Proc. Planning         X                  General Lack of                   X
___________________         experience
(iii) Preparation of              X                                       X
Documents
(iv) Mgmt. of               X                  Lack of experience                X   Hire International   05/00
Process                                                                               Consultant to
train PIU /MOES
______ _   Staff
(v) Bid Evaluation                X            Lack of capacity to               X   Introduce            12/00
evaluate technical                    Evaluation
specifications of                     procedures in
complicated bid                       new procurement
law
(vi) Contract Award         -     X                                 =    X
(vii) Preparation and             X                                       X
signing of contracts
(viii) Contract             X                  General lack of                   X   Provide training     06/00
Management                                  experience
(c) Organization and
Functions                                       ______
(i) Organization of   -     -         I        Insufficient staff to             X   Hire International    05/00
Unit and Functions                             operate PIU                            consultant to
_____________                                                      support PIU
(ii) Intemal manuals        -     X                                       X
and Instructions
(d) Support and
Control System                                  _                                      _________
(i) Auditing        _             X |                 X |                                               _ _X
(ii) Legal                        X                                       X
Assistance                                      _                                      _                _______
(iii) Technical and         X                  Lack of experience                X   Hire International    05/00
Admin. Controls                                in technical controls                  consultant to
____________                 ___________ _                         support PIU
(iv) Code of Ethics   X                        Does not exist                    X   Anti-corruption      12/00
measures are to
be included in
WB Public
Admin Reform
Project
(v) Anticorruption          x                  Plans have been                   X   Anti-corruption      12/00
Initiatives                                 underway but no                       initiatives are to
concrete actions yet                  be included in
.__ _    _WB Public
- 75 -



Item Assessed            Assessment                              Risk Assessment
Null  Poor Fair  Satis-    Major Weakness                             Actions       Proposed
factory                    Low  Ave.  High        Proposed      Completion
Date
Admin Reform
_  Project
(e) Record Keeping                                                  -    X       - =    X
(i) Public Notices                X                                       X           International       05/00
consultant will be
hired to assist
____________                                        ____ PIU
(ii) Bidding                      X            Procurement Officer        X           Hire Intl           05/00
Documents                                      is has experience in                   consulting firm to
procuring textbooks                   Support Project
but not in other areas                Procurement
(iii) Bid Opening                 X            National                   X            Revise National    12/00
Information                                    Procurement Law                        procurement law.
bid opening
procedures do not
comply with WB
Guidelines.
(iv) Bid Evaluation   -           X                                       X             Same as (e) (i)
Report                                                 I_and (e) (iii)
(v) Formal Appeals                X                                       X
and outcomes            _   _______
(vi) Signed Contract              x                                       x
Document                                                                             _                ___________
(vii) Claims and                  X
Dispute Resolution
Records                                             _
(viii)                      X    -             Excel is accounting        X            Purchase FMS       06100
Comprehensive                                  program used                              software in
Disbursement Data                                                                         project
(f) Staffing          _                                              _     _
(g) General
Procurement
Environment                    -
(i) Promoting a                   X            Procurement officer               X   Same as (e) (i)
Culture of                                     is inexperienced
Accountability                                                                         _____
(ii) Reputation of          X    -             Procurement Corps                 X   Systemic              12/00
Procurement Corps                              does not enjoy a                       problem. Need of
good image in                         improvement in
Albania                               general economic
l_____________   _ l_  l   l   l  _environment
(iii) Salary Structure    X                    Salaries of PIU staff             X   Include salary        12100
are 30% - 40%                         review in Civil
lower than private                     Service Reform
I___I__I__I__lenterprise salaries                                  Law
(iv) Freedom from     X           -            Systemic problem     -            X   Introduce conflict    12/00
Political                                                                         of interest laws
Interference       I_I__I_I(see (d) (v)
(v) Existence of      X                         Staff needs more                 X   Prepare and          07/00
Experienced and                                experience in                         implement
Capable Staff                                  procurement,                           training programs
in project
(vi) Clear Written                X            Only in Director's         X           Include in           12/00
Standards and                                  contract                               operations
Delegation of                                                                         manual
Authority
(vii) Sound Budget!         X    -             Although                          X   Purchase a LACI    06100-
Financial Systems                              government has                         compliant FMS
been taking                           program and
I_______________  l_l_I  __  measures to                           train  staff in  its
- 76 -



Item Assessed           Assessment                              Risk Assessment
Null  Poor Fair  Satis-    Major Weakness                           Actions       Proposed
factory                    Low  Ave.  High       Proposed      Completion
Date
introduce sound                      use.
budget and financial
systems, there
remains room for
improvement,
(h) Private Sector
Assessment
(i) General                      X                                       X
Efficiency and
Predictability       _           _
(ii) Transparency                X                                       X
(iii) Quality of                 X             Lack of Experience        X           Intl TA is
Contract                                                                             included in        06/00
Management                                                                      Project to
improve Contract
Management
(iv) General                X                                       X
Reputation
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                    Overall Risk Assessment
Goods:
All ICB Contracts: US $ 100,000 or more                           High      [X]
First 3 contracts for:
IS Contracts: less than US $ 100,000
NS Contracts: less than US $ 19,900                               Average
Works:
First 3 contract for:
NCB contracts: < than US $ 500,000 per contract                   Low       [ ]
Minor Works: < US $ 100,000
-Consulting Services
All Consultant Contracts with firms and individuals-->AII Consultant
Contracts with firms and individuals
Post Review Ratio: One in 5 contracts
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed: One every 4  Form Prepared By: Ronald P. Isaacson
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)  (Implementation Advisor /Procurement Accredited
Staff Assigned to the Project)
Comments:.. The PIU for the proposed project will build on capacities established under the on-going School Rehabilitation and
Capacity Building Project, including expertise in World Bank procurement procedures and project management. The PIU is well
equipped. With the assistance of an intemational implementation specialist who will have experience in WB procurement and
disbursement procedures, the PIU will have the existing capacity to procure goods, works and services under the Transition to
Education Reform Project. Without intemational procurement assistance the risk factor is "high". Additionally, the country does
have the procurement legislation necessary for fair and transparent procurement processes, there is much room for improvement in
the effective implementation of this legislation. Furthermore, the procurement systemn in Albania is currently operating in an
environment which does not appear to be conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes. Therefore, the procurement
system in the country has been rated high risk. In light of this environment and despite the strengths of the PIU, the prior review
thresholds recommended above are those applicable to a high risk country.
- 77 -



Financial Management
General: The PIU in the Ministry of Education and Sciences that is currently implementing the School
Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project, will be expanded and renamed the Project Implementation
Unit (PILJ). The PIU will be responsible for the overall financial management of the Project. The PIU
will, among other things, oversee and coordinate the Project, manage Project expenditures from the
project and Special Accounts, ensure compliance with the Development Credit Agreement, and maintain
the Project's financial records.
Accounting systems: The PIU will need to establish a sound accounting and financial management
systems, and this system will need to be fully automated, prior to effectiveness, in order to properly
manage the accounting, reporting and financing of the Project according to the Bank requirements. In
order to achieve these goals, the PIU accountant will be supported by a short term Accounting Consultant
in the: (i) design and implementation of the Project accounting and financial management system; (ii)
drafting of the accounting and financial Manual; and (iii) computerization of the accounting and financial
system with an appropriate software. The design, implementation and computerization of the accounting
and financial system should comply with the following action plan:
-  design, implementation and computerization of the accounting and financial system   Apr. 7, 2000
-  assessment of the PIU accounting system by the Bank's FMS                Apr. 14, 2000
-  finalization of the accounting Manual and testing by the Bank's FMS      Apr. 28, 2000
Adequate funds have been earmarked in the Project to finance these initiatives.
Staffing. The PIU accountant will be responsible for the accounting and financial activities. However,
since the PIU accounting and financial management system will need to be substantially strengthened
prior to effectiveness, a short term Accounting Consultant will be appointed in order to support the PIU
accountant in this task.
Disbursements Mechanism: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association. A
Special Account will be opened and managed by the PIU at a bank acceptable to the Association.
Internal Controls. The accounting and financial Manual, that will be prepared by the PIU accountant with
the support of the short term consultant, will detail, amongst other things, the operational procedures and
controls. Since this Manual will be adopted as a condition of effectiveness, internal controls for the PIU,
satisfactory to the Association, will be in place prior to Board presentation.
Audit Arrangements. The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable by the Association. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be carried out in accordance
with International Standards of Auditing. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the
project and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both audit of financial transaction and
an assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the review of the internal
control mechanisms. The PIU will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and
records, and information required by the auditor for the purpose of the audit. Auditors will be appointed
under a project portfolio-wide basis agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
Reporting Arrangements. In addition to the submission of annual audited financial statements, the PIU
will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
- 78 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Project Schedule                                Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         8                  8
First Bank mission (identirication)             09/21/99            09/21/99
Appraisal mission departure                   02/14/2000         02/14/2000
Negotiations                                  03/14/2000         03/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                08/01/2000
Prepared by:
Sue Berryman, Program Team Leader and Virginia Jackson, Operations Officer
Preparation assistance:
Technical assistance was provided to the Project Unit during the project preparation process by Paul
Blay (Education Specialist). Nora Dudwick and Helen Shahriari (Social Scientists) provided the
Social Assessment.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                            Speciality
Sue Berryman                    Program Team Leader
Virginia Jackson                Operations Officer
Ron Issaacson                   Procurement Accredited Specialist
Lida Kita                       Project Officer
Hong Chen                       Operations Analyst
Deborah Trent                   Program Assistant
Angelita Yacat                  Office Assistant
Ahmed Jehani                    Sr. Counsel
Junko Funahashi                 Counsel
Heinz Weindler                  Disbursement Officer
Sandro Zanus Michiei            Financial Management Specialist
Sverrir Sigurdsson              Peer Reviewer
Adrian Verspoor                 Peer Reviewer
Navin Girishankar               Peer Reviewer
Guenter Heidenhof               Peer Reviewer
- 79 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
OUTLINE
A. Project Implementation Plan
INTRODUCTION
I. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
B. Project Description
II. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
C.  Summary of Implementation Responsibilities
D. Implementation Arrangements by Component
E.  Detailed Project Activities by Component
F.  Project Operational Manual
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Costs
B.  Project Financing
C. Administration of Project Funds
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
E.  Disbursements
F.  Role of the World Bank in Supervision
G. Administrative Arrangements
H. Implementation Schedule
IV.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
B. Indicator Tables
Table       1: Project Cost Summary by Component
Table       2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure
Table       3: Summary of Costs by Component and by Financier
Table       4: Summary of Costs by Expenditure Category and Financier
Table        5: Procurement Arrangements
Table       6: Summary of Procurement Packages for Civil Works
Table       7: Summary of Procurement for Equipment
Table       8: Summary of the Procurement Packages for Technical Assistance and Training
Table       9: Disbursements by Year
Table        10: Disbursement Categories
Table        11: Staff Weeks by Specialization
Table        12: Input Indicators
Table        13: Output Indicators
Table        14: Outcome Indicators
- 80-



APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Implementation Schedule
Appendix 2: Cost Tables
Appendix 3: List of Equipment to be Procured
Appendix 4: Implementation Responsibilities/Resource Requirements
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Albania Education Reform PCD
Albania Education Social Assessment, N. Dudwick and H. Shahriari
C. Other
Restructuring Alternatives for Albania's VET Subsector, prepared by Dr. M.E. Lamoureux
Efficiency, Equity and the Fiscal Impact of Education in Albania, prepared by G. Palomba and M.
Vodopevic
Issues and Challenges in Education Governance, prepared by Y. Duthilleul, A. Hoxha, S. Llambi, L.
Gjerman, I. Kokomoni, and L. Kita
Sector Strategy for Albania Education System: Briefing Note, prepared by S. Berryman
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions      and actual
disbursementsa
Project   FY    Borrower             Purpose              IBRD     IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig      Frm
ID                                                                                                   Rev'd
P035787    1996 Albania    AGROPROCESSING DEVEL              0.00    6.00      0.00     1.81     2.11     0.00
P051309    1999  Albania    COMMUNITY WORKS'                 0.00   14.00      0.00    12.10     1.14     0.00
P040818    1998 Albania    DURRES PORT                       0.00   17.00      0.00    15.26     9.18     0.00
P008260    1994 Albania    DURRES WATER SUPPLY               0.00   11.60      0.00     2.19     1.37     0.00
P068853    2000 Albania    EMG ROAD REPAIR                   0.00   13.65      0.00    13.29     0.00     0.00
P008271    1996 Albania    FORESTRY                          0.00    8.00      0.00     4.74     2.50     0.00
P045312    1998 Albania    HEALTH RECOVERY                   0.00   17.00      0.00    16.29     7.45     0.00
P008253    1995  Albania    HEALTH SERVICES REHA             0.00   12A0       0.00     3.60     4.07     0.00
P043178    1999 Albania    IRRIG. & DRAINAGE II              0.00   24.00      0.00    22.07     -0.37    0.00
P040975    1998 Albania    LAND DEVELOPMENT                  0.00   10.00      0.00     9.34     3.50     0.00
P057182    2000 Albania    LEG/JUD REFORM                    0.00    9.00      0.00     8.88     0.00     0.00
P051310    1999 Albania    MICROCREDIT                       0.00   12.00      0.00    11.18    -0.21     0.00
P036060    1996 Albania    NATIONAL ROADS                    0.00   25.00      0.00    11.89     9.48     0.00
P034491    1996 Albania    POWER TRANSM. & DIST              0.00   29.50      0.00    18.12    19.83     0.00
P051602    1998 Albania    PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC              0.00   10.25      0.00     6.79     6.94     0.00
P069939    2000 Albania    PUB ADM REF                       0.00    8.50      0.00     8.51     0.00     0.00
P054384    1998  Albania    RECOVERY PROG. TA                0.00    5.00      0.00     1.89     0.93     0.00
P008267    1995 Albania    RURAL ROADS                       0.00   15.00      0.00     0.67     1.75    -5.91
P055160    1999 Albania    SAC                               0.00   45.00      0.00   25.08    24.86      0.00
P008272    1995 Albania    TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.              0.00    4.00      0.00     1.40     1.33     0.00
P066491    2000 Albania    WS URG REHAB                      0.00   10.00      0.00     9.83     0.00     0.00
Total:    0.00  306.90      0.00   195.10    95.86    -5.91
Community Works and its supplemental project are counted as one operation.
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 82 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IZFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3/31/2000
In Millions US Dollars
Conmiitted                    Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY          Company        Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1998      AAP                     0   28.50      0       0      0    8.04      0       0
1999      SEF Eurotech          1.20      0      0       0    1.20      0      0      0
1999      SEF FEFAD Bank          0    1.01      0       0      0       0      0      0
Total Portfolio:     1.20  29.51      o0      0    1.20    8.04      0      0
|  Approvals Pendin Commitment
FY     Company                       Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
Approval
2000       NCB                             0      2250       0       0
1998       Patos Marinza               30000         0       0   50000
Total Pending Commitment:    300001    2250       0   50000
- 83 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Education Reform Project
Europe &
~P,VIERTY *rtid SOCIAL                                            central  ~   LOW--
Albania       Asia   Income        Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                             A        47       I 90                    Life expectancy
G NP per capita (A ties method, US$1                      810    .2190        1,710
GNP (Atlas method. IJSS billions)                          2,7      1,039     1,557,
Average annual growth, 1992.98
Population (hI                                            0,8         0,1       1.1
Labor force (%                                             112        0.6        156     GNP               'G ross
per       ~      ,primary
Most recent estimnate (latest year available,~ 1992-98)                                  cpt                             nrlmn
Poverty M1% oflpor.ilation below national Povorty line)
Urban poulation (%of total populationI                     38         68         58
Life expectsncy at birth (yeas)~                           72         69 ~1      68
infant mortality (per 1,000 liv& births)~                  26         23         38
Child, malnutrition (96 of.childrerr under 5),.                        ,                            Access to safe water
Acces,s to safe water (% of population)                    76                    7
Illiteracy~ (1% ot population aqe 15+)                      ..4                  14~
Gross primary enrollment (%. of school-apea POpulationl)  107        100        103                 ""Abai
Mate                          .106                                 101        105         .Low-incorme group
Pemale                                   ~~~~        ~~~       ~~~~~~108  ~99  100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billIpns)                                ..       2.2        2.3        3.0
Gross domeSticiinvestirrent/GOP                   -.      28.4       16.0      18.0                       Trade
Exrports of goo4s and services/GDP      .          .      15.5       10.5        9.5
Gross domestic savIngs/GOP                         *     28.3        -9.1I     -6.7
Gross national savirios/GOP       .4.0                                           9.9
Currenitaccount balahnce/GOP ..0.2                                   2121       .6.1
Interest payments/GDP                              ,,      0;0        0.9       0.2      Ooeti                           nvestment
Total debt/GOP                                     .         ..      30.9      28.9;
ToDtal debt aervice/exports                                  ,        7.2        2.2
Present value iof detbt/GOP                                          21.0
Present value of debt/exports.                                      72.0
Indebtedness
1977467  1988-98      1t997      I 998   1999-CS
(average anrutil growth
:GOP                                   1.9 .    0.        -7.0        8.0                               Albania
GNP, pe capita                                   6.1      .9 1        6 1         .---Low-income group
69ports, Of Qood$ and services          .,       3.8    -29,5i  ~17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                     197       100-97                198t %
Agriculture                                       ,.      33.2       56.0      54.4
Industry                                          ..     45.8        23.6      24,5      2m
Manufacturing                                    .         ..                    .      ie /   ~-
Services                                          ,.      21.0       20.4      21.~0       01      *                      *-
Private consumption                               ..     62.0        97.7      96.5    T-is4o5                      96   97    9
General government consumption                     ,.      9.6       11.4      10.2                ""'"GDl    --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                     ..      15.6       35.7      32.2
(average annual growth)1977-87  1988-98                  1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and ITmports %
Agriculture                                      2.4       5.5        1.0        5,0    30
Industry                                         2.2      -6.4       -5.9      12.2      21
Manufacturing .
Services                                         0.6       0.4      -24.4       11.3      o
Private consumption                               ..       6.1       -9.3      10.1       r _________________
General government consumption                     .      -3.9      -16.5      -0.6              93   94   95   96s
Gross domestic investment                       -0.6      19.9       -4.1      21.      iOO I0
ImPorts of goods and services                     ..      16.7      -20.2      16.1       ~       .-'Exports    -0Oimports
Gross national product                            ..       6.5       -8.1       7.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-oroulo average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-84 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domnestic prices                            1977      1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%/6)
(% change)                                                                         1B0
Consumer prices                                 ..       .       33.2     21.9    120
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       30.8     24.8      so  <'
Government finance                                                                  40
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    49.2       16.8     20.3        93     94      95    9s    97    99
Current budget balance                         ..    23.7        -8.6     -5.3              -    GOP deflator    O CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -1.7       -12.6    -10.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS milions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    311         167      205      1,000
Minerals and fuels                            ..       ..        46       57
Food, beverage, and tobacco                   ..       ..        18       22       750
Manufactures                                  ..       ..        99       122
Total imports (fob)                                    316       685       826       so
Food                                          ..       ..       164       197      2s0
Fuel and energy                               .        ..        71        86
Capital goods                                                    99       120        0
92  93  94  95  99  97  98
Export price index (1993=100)                   ..
Import price index (1993=100)                  ..       ..         ..        .                 Exports      X Imports
Terms of trade (1993=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               19       1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (1%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..     334       239       289       0
Importsofgoodsandservices                      ..    336         816       980
Resource balance                               ..       -2       -577     -691
Net income                                               0        51        65
Net current transfers                                            250       440
Current account balance                         ..       5       -276     -186    -40f
Financing items (net)                          ..        7       303       257    -50
Changes in net reserves                         ..    -12         -27      -71      091
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..       342       401
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               ..      8.0      149.6    151.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..       ..       706       820
IBRD                                         ..        .         0         0                      G 35
IDA                                           ..      ..       148       220
Total debt service                             ..        .         39       37          B2220
IBRD                                          .        ..        0         0
IDA                                           .        ..        1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                 77        89
Official creditors                                              46        79                                      c: 64
Private creditors                            ..       ..        -1         0
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..        42        45                                  D: 21
Portfolio equity                             ..         ..       0         0                       E:
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     34        54      A- 0BRD                    Ei- silater
Disbursements                                ..                 19        64      B - IDA    0- Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayrnents                        ..                  0         0      c - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      ..        19        64
Interest payments                            ..       ..          1        1
Net transfers                                ..       ..        18        63
Development Economics
- 85 -



Annex 11: Environnmental Management Plan
MITIGATION PLAN
Construction  - Insulation          NA                                   NA           NA
materials --
asbestos wool:
Some schools
had been
equipped with
heating
systems.
Asbestos wool
may have been
used as
insulation
material in
some industrial
facilities, but
schools were
never insulated.
Asbestos
roofing sheets
were not used.
- Paints -- walls  - Because schools           Minor                 PIU
and ceilings are  have practically              costs                Architectural
painted with    never been                                           -firms/
white wash.    maintained, little                                    Super-vision
Wooden         paint is left. Bills of                               engineers
windows,       quantities will
exposed roofing  nevertheless include
timber, doors    a clause for
and all other    appropriate disposal
woodwork was  of painted wood.
most probably   Procurement
painted with    documents will
lead based     specify that no lead
paints         based paints will be
used.
- Disposal of    - The building site           Minor                 PIU
construction   will be cleaned and              costs                Architectural
waste: except   all debris and waste                                 -firms/
for paint of   materials will be                                     Super-vision
wood, all other  disposed of in                                      engineers
building       accordance with
materials are    clauses specified in
non hazards    the bills of quantities.
(lime, cement   The sites for disposal
and sand       of construction waste
plaster,       will be government
concrete, glass,  approved sites.
ceramics -
I electrical and
- 86 -



Institutional          comments
Cost                 Responsibility              (e9.g
secondarY
.__ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ._- _._-im                                               acts>
Phase           Issue            Mitgaing           Instail    Operate        lnstall      Operate
.___  __Measure               .         .             ::
sanitary, fabric
insulated
copper wiring,
cast iron
sanitary pipes,
galvanized
water pipes,
etc).
- Landscape:    - The rehabilitation                  Minor                   PIU
contract will include               costs                   Schools
for site works and the                                      Com-
planting of trees.                                          munities/
One of the                                                  Families
community
involvement measure
built in the project
will be to get
commitments from
families and local
businesses to look
after those trees.
This commitment
will be one of the
aspects of the school
opening ceremony.
- Sanitation:    - The project                        Minor                   PIU
includes the                        costs                   Architectural
rehabilitation of                                           firms/
adequate sanitary                                           Super-
facilities, including                                       vision-
appropriate disposal                                        engineers
of waste water and
.______________    sewerage.
- Community    - The contracts with                   Minor                   PIU
awareness:       the architectural                    costs                   Architectural
firms (hired to design                                      firms/
and supervise these                                         Super-
rehabilitation                                              vision
projects), will                                             engineers
include for two open
forums with the
community.
Enviromnental issues
will be raised and
addressed during
those forums with
the commnunity.               .
- 87 -



MONITORING PLAN
___                              L
Phase   What          Where        How         When         Why    Install  Operate  Install   Operate
parameter     is the       is the      is the      Is the
is to be    parameter   parameter  parameter to  parameter
monitored?    to be       to be         be         to be
monitored?  monitoredl   monitored-  monitored
type of   frequency of (optional)
monitoring  measurement     ?
equipment?      or
continuous?
Construct Appropriate  In the Bills  PIU will    During the                  Minor             PIU,
disposal of  of        ensure that  rehabilitation                 costs             Super-
paint wood. Quantities   the site  process.                                          vision
No lead    in the      supervisors/                                                  engineers
based      bidding     supervision
painted will documents,  engineers
be used    these       enforce
during     clauses will  these
rehabilitatio  be specified. clauses.
n.
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.    Training/Study Tours
There will not be any significant training related to environmental management.
2.    Consultant Services
An architectural/firm(s) will be selected to ensure the quality of the rehabilitation of the schools. It will
also involve communities in the rehabilitation of each school.
Rehabilitation activities could only be decided and start after the proposal is agreed on, and the detailed
methodology is developed in selecting schools and allocating funds using the school mapping database.
Therefore, activities on mitigation, monitoring and training would be carried out throughout the project.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The PIU will be responsible to hire and oversee the required architects, engineers and contractors. In the
context of the rehabilitation of schools, the PIU's role is to manage the design, bidding, supervision of
projects (including civil works, goods and services). The PIU's responsibility includes the following
activities:
*  hire the services of private architectural/engineering firms capable of providing comprehensive
services, i.e. architectural, all required engineering, preparation of tender documents and site
supervision;
•  supervise the work performed by the architectural/engineering firms to ensure that they are
applying adequate standards and are following agreed procedures, as well as the agreed
environmental plan.
*  organize tendering procedures, review tender evaluation performed by the
architectural/engineering firms, arrange for the contracts to be signed in accordance with agreed
procedures.
*  ensure that the architectural/engineering firms are providing adequate site supervision,
particularly the supervision of carrying out the environmental plan (monitoring the disposal of
paint for woods, disposal of waste water and sewage, and procurement documents specify that no
lead based painted will be used).
- 88 -



Annex 12: Monitoring Indicators
MITIGATION PLAN
The Education Reform project finances activities that have institutional and investment objectives. The
project will be monitored regarding these activities and their intermediate impacts on institutional
performance.
In terms of institutional changes, ER is expected to:
*  Improve the institutional arrangements of the MOES for formulating and coordinating policies at the
center of the Ministry, for managing public expenditures, for designing the policy and implementation
plan of educational initiatives, and for managing their implementation (component 1);
*  Improve the availability and analytic utility of data relevant to policy decisions and the management
of the system (components 2 and 3);
*  Help rationalize the management of the system's infrastructure (rehabilitation and new construction)
and the efficiency with which building activities are conducted (component 4); and
*  Increase the competitive transparency with which textbook publishing, printing, and distribution
services are procured.
In investment terms, ER finances:
*  the software systems for the EMIS;
*  the rehabilitation of about 35,000 school places; and
*  the procurement of existing textbooks (printing services) and new textbooks (publishing services).
Monitoring project execution: The Operational Manual (OM) identifies activities that will be undertaken
to achieve these objectives. Project execution will be monitored and assessed on the basis of the extent to
which programmed activities in the OM have been undertaken according to schedule, as well as by
subjective assessments of the quality of the work financed by the project. The OM, however, is expected
to be regularly revised over the course of project implementation. Project execution will be judged
relative to the most recent revision of the OM. In addition, as with all IDA-financed projects, quarterly
financial reporting on project progress will provide frequent information on the degree to which the
project is undertaking its programmed activities. Semi-annual supervision missions will assess project
execution by reviewing both those quarterly financial statements and evidence on the direct products of
project-financed activities (e.g., progress reports by consultants hired under the project, summaries of
training undertaken and measures of its quality, reports produced, regulations, decrees or other sub-legal
acts resulting from project efforts, systems developed and implemented with financing provided under the
project and reports being produced by those systems).
Monitoring intermediate institutional impact: Institutional impacts can be expected to materialize slowly
and fitfully, both because of the complexity of the causal factors affecting institutional performance and
because some of those factors are not fully within the control of the MOES. Accordingly, intermediate
institutional impact indicators are specified without pre-judging the extent to which improvements should
be expected. The MOES commits to monitoring these indicators, while the joint challenge facing the
MOES and the IDA supervision team will be to assess what progress can be adduced from those
indicators. Those assessments will be based on the indicators, on the extent and quality of project
execution (see above), as well as on consideration of exogenous factors that may have augmented or
attenuated project impacts during a given supervision period.
Table 1 identifies a core set of measures of institutional improvements and investments sought by ER.
The MOES has committed to monitoring these core measures with varying degrees of periodicity (as
indicated in the table) during the implementation of these reforms. These measures have been selected to
meet the twin needs of ease of monitoring plus comprehensiveness with respect to capturing the major
objectives of the ER..
- 89 -



Table 1: Indicators of performance
Indicator            Underlying Assumption           Proposed Measurement
Policy Design and Management
Level One- Fiscally Sound Planning and Priority-Setting
Contestability       Reform priorities are more stable   Minutes of meetings of the Council of the
if established contestably.     MOES show that alternative priorities are
considered and debated.
Consensus            Reform priorities are more stable   *  Events are held at which different
if reviewed and debated by the  stakeholders in education review and debate
wide range of stakeholders in   proposed priorities for improving the sector
education                           Minutes of meetings of the Council of the
MOES show that the process of selecting
priorities incorporates the results of stakeholder
consultation
* Stakeholder views of the MOES priority
setting process is surveyed immediately prior to
the project's midterm review
Analytically based   Statistical and other analyses that   *  Technical Policy Analysis and Planning
planning             identify the magnitude,         Unit is established, staffed, and staff receives
geographic distribution, and    training
causes of system shortcomings   E  Minutes of meetings of the Council of the
improve the setting of priorities    MOES show requests for and incorporation of
the results of technical analyses into priority
_____________________________    setting
Fiscal realism       Planning within realistic       *  Technical Policy Analysis and Planning
assumptions about Government    Unit uses costing models to estimate prices of
budgets and international funding   alternative priorities and targets
forces the setting of priorities  *  Technical Policy Analysis and Planning
Unit relates costs of alternative priorities and
targets to assumptions about Government and
international funding
* Minutes of meetings of the Council of the
MOES show that the results of costing models
are taken into account in selecting priorities
Equity-based         Inequitably distributed         *  Technical policy analysis and planning unit
planning             educational access and quality  conducts analyses of the equity impact of
ultimately exact heavy social   alternative priorities
costs                           *  Minutes of meetings of the Council of the
MOES show incorporation of the results of
analyses of the impact on equity in priority
setting
Medium-term reform   A medium term (e.g., 5 year)    MOES presents a medium-term reform strategy
strategy             reform strategy provides a      consisting of priorities that meet the criteria of
framework for guiding           contestability, consensus, fiscal realism,
investments in the sector by    analytically- based choice, and equity-based
Government, stakeholders,       choice to Government (e.g., Cabinet of
international funders           Ministers), stakeholder groups, and international
funders. Target date: no later than 12 months
after project effectiveness.
Level two-Program or Function Design and Planning
Policy framework     Proposed programs should reflect  Alternative policy frameworks for achieving a
the policy framework selected to   particular program objective have been
structure the program or        explicitly considered, as evidenced by
functional area                 completed technical and fiscal analyses of
alternatives and analyses of their
implementation feasibility. Target date:
continuous over life of the project.
-90 -



Indicator           Underlying Assumption          Proposed Measurement
Detailed action plan   Chances of implementing an  Action plans show the specific activities
for implementing   initiative successfully improve if  required to implement the design, the timing of
program initiative  planners anticipate the specific    these activities, how and by whom the program
activities that must be conducted   is to be implemented, the mechanisms by which
and the resources, coordination,    needed services and goods will be acquired, the
and sequencing required to    availability of the resources needed for program
conduct them.                  implementation, and the methods to be used for
monitoring implementation progress. Target
date: continuous over life of the project.
Fiscally realistic  A detailed annual workplan based  *  MOES annually or biennially develops a
detailed annual     on a medium-term strategy gives   detailed annual workplan that, within realistic
workplan            MOES a basis for developing    assumptions about Government and
budgets for the MOF and        international funding, selects from its medium
encourages donors to move to  term reform strategy and program development
"basket funding"               work the highest priorities for action
*  MOES incorporates costs of those activities
in each annual workplan that it can realistically
expect Government to finance in the annual
budget that it sends to MOF
*  MOES presents annual workplan to
international funders for discussion and funding
decisions
Target date: no later than 24 months after project
effectiveness.
Level three-Implementation of Program or Functional Initiatives
Monitoring of       What is not measured does not    *  Implementation milestones are specified
implementation of    happen-or does not happen in    relative to action plan
initiative         the way desired.                *  Means of measuring implementation
progress relative to milestones have been
established at appropriate levels of government
*  Council of MOES issues six month reports
on implementation progress, based on data from
monitoring sstem
Implementation      Feedback on implementation     On the basis of proposals from the Technical
plans modified on   progress contains valuable     Policy Analysis and Planning Unit, the Council
basis of feedback   information on how to improve    of MOES modifies implementation action plans
implementation                to take account of implementation problems
EMIS
Simple EMIS as      A wide range of staff at different   *  Functioning EMIS is set up in Ministry
management tool for  levels of government need access   *  Analyses provided by Technical Policy and
central ministry   to the statistics, analyses,    Planning Unit use data and analytic tools
simulations, and other        available on EMIS
information supported by an    *  Electronic tracking shows that other MOES
EMIS in order to plan, design,    staff are using data bases and analytic tools
and implement                 relevant to their responsibilities
EMIS applications    Managing geographically       *  Functioning EMIS is set up in two pilot
appropriate for     disbursed education systems    districts: 18 months after project effectiveness
districts are       requires that subnational levels of  -  Analyses provided by the districts to the
established in two  government have the capacity to   central Ministry use data and analytic tools
pilot districts     plan, design, and monitor      available on EMIS: continuous, beginning 24
implementation                months after project effectiveness
*  Electronic tracking shows that district staff
are using data bases and analytic tools relevant
to their responsibilities: beginning 24 months
I after project effectiveness
-91 -



Indicator            Underlying Assumption           Proposed Measurement
Policy-relevant      Statistical indicators of the   *  The set of policy relevant statistical
statistical indicators   system's performance let    indicators is selected, and the variables and their
managers track trends           measures are defined: 12 months after project
effectiveness
*  Baseline data on these indicators are
available on the Public Contact Point of the
EMIS: 30 months after project effectiveness
*  The first "Statistical Report Card on
Albanian Education" (SRCAE) for stakeholders
is published: 30 months after project
.    effectiveness
Assessment/Examinations
Public relations     Learning assessments and        Public relations person or firm is hired by May,
campaign             examinations affect students'   2000, to work with the MOES, the CEAE, and
opportunities and teachers'    its international advisors to design and
accountabilities. Albanian     implement a public relations campaign that
families and teachers need to  initially focuses on university examinations and
understand the reasons for the  4th grade assessments and later on 8th grade and
assessments and examinations, be  matura examinations
assured of their fairness, and
understand the uses to which the
results will be put.
University entrance    Well-designed, objective      International examination experts review the
examinations         university entrance examinations   content of the university entrance examinations,
to be taken by candidates for all   their administration, scoring, and notification
universities build civic confidence  procedures at the time of the Midterm Review of
in the fairness of the selection  ER
process and reduce opportunities
for corruption
Grade 4 assessments   The Albanian education system  *  Learning standards for 4th grade Albanian
of learning in       now has no interpretable        and mathematics are established
Albanian and         measures of student learning    *  Assessments of 4th grade Albanian and
mathematics         relative to standards. What does   mathematics are designed relative to learning
not get measured does not get   standards, pretested, piloted, administered
fixed.                          nationally, analyzed, and the results published
by December, 2001
Grade 8 and matura   High stakes tests (8th grade and    *  8th grade examination is designed,
examinations         matura examinations) must be    pretested, piloted, administered, and graded by
fair. Today they are non-       project close
comparable between schools in a   *  matura examinations are designed and
given year and between years in a  pretested by project close
given school.
Diagnostic           Teachers need tools for         Diagnostic assessment materials are prepared
assessment materials  diagnosing students' learning  and pretested among teachers by project close.
for teachers         problems relative to learning
standards in order to solve those
problems
School Rehabildation
Construction and     Clear and enforced construction    *  A simple handbook, acceptable to the World
design guidelines for  and design guidelines and     Bank, of construction and design guidelines for
schools and          specifications, increase the    schools and furniture, including typical
furniture; typical   efficiency of rehabilitation and  specifications for main construction materials
specifications for   construction activities and reduce   and fixtures is completed one year after project
main construction    the variance in the quality of  effectiveness.
materials and fixtures  output
-92 -



Indicator           Underlying Assumption           Proposed Measurement
*  Upon completion, Minister of MOES issues
handbook as a formal regulation for conducting
school and furniture construction and
rehabilitation.
School mapping      Extensive internal migration and   Annual plans for the school rehabilitation
immigration out of Albania and    component of the project reflect the use of the
the poor state of Albanian schools  school mapping data base to allocate resources
make it imperative to rationalize   among districts.
rehabilitation and new
construction investments
School rehabilitation   Albanian schools are in a physical  Approximately 35,000 school places are
state so poor as to endanger   rehabilitated by project close. The final number
health, safety, and learning   may vary, depending on the number of selected
schools that have to be completely rebuilt rather
than just rehabilitated.
Design and quality    Properly competed construction    For all school rehabilitation activities, PIU
assurance services  design and oversight services  tenders for private or NGO architectural/
ultimately reduce the price and  engineering firms to: a) survey the schools; b)
raise the quality of these services.  ensure community participation (see below); c)
prepare preliminary designs and cost estimates;
d) prepare working drawings, bills of quantities
and full bid documents; e) evaluate tenders and
make award recommendations; f) provide full
construction site supervision; g) prepare
monthly progress certificates: continuous across
the period of the project
Community           Communities that participate in    PIU monitors that the contracted architectural!
participation       decisions about their schools are   engineering firm ensures the following
more likely to protect them in  community involvement: a) an open forum is
periods of civil unrest and to  held that lets the architectural firm hear
maintain them                  community concerns about the schools to be
rehabilitated; b) a second open forum is held
once the architectural firm has completed its
design plans at which the firm will inform the
community of these plans; c) a sign-off is
obtained from commune or municipal officials
that these forums have been held; d) the
architectural firm holds a competition at the
community level to select paintings, murals, and
other decoration for the walls of the school's
classrooms and halls; e) agreements are reached
with individual families and businesses to
maintain individual trees, to be purchased under
ER, that will be planted at the opening ceremony
for the rehabilitated school; and f) the school is
designed to allow the community to use some of
the school facilities at the end of the school day
for community functions.
Textbooks
STPH and TDE        Taking all actions to privatize the   The detailed action plan taking the STPH and
taken to point of sale  two state textbook entities  TDE to the point of sale will have various
increases the capacity of private   actions. Government will provide evidence to
sector to respond to government   Bank supervision teams that actions to have
tendering for textbook services  been completed in the 6 months previous to a
given supervision mission have in fact occurred.
-93 -



Indicator          Underlying Assumption          Proposed Measurement
Transparent,       Procurement rules and procedures  Once MOES and the Bank agree on titles and
competitive        should enhance transparency and   quantities of existing books to be manufactured
procurement of     competition, which in turn should  for school year 2001-2002 and on the
project-financed   reduce costs and enhance quality   documentation and timetable for procurement,
textbooks                                        the tendering and awards of contracts for these
books occurs according to World Bank ICB
procurement guidelines
Transparent,       Procurement rules and procedures  Once MOES and the Bank agree on titles and
competitive        should enhance transparency and   quantities of new books to be developed and
procurement of     competition, which in turn should  manufactured for school year 2001-2002 and on
project-financed   reduce costs and enhance quality  the documentation and timetable for
textbook publishing                               procurement, the tendering and awards of
services                                          contracts for these books occurs according to
World Bank ICB procurement guidelines
Transparent,       Procurement rules and procedures  The percent of Government-financed textbook
competitive        should enhance transparency and   publishing, printing, and distribution services
procurement of     competition, which in turn should  that is transparently competed steadily increases
Government-        reduce costs and enhance quality   during the course of the ER until by project end
financed textbook                                 it reaches 100 percent except in two possible
publishing, printing,                             cases: a) required print runs are too small to be
and distribution                                  attractive competitively; and b) the development
services                                          of curriculum that should structure new titles has
been delayed.
Textbook financing    The public budget and families    *  Technical Policy Analysis and Planning
will benefit from an analysis of    Unit uses information on textbook printing costs
textbook financing. Using ICB for  under ICB to analyze textbook financing
procurement of existing textbooks  alternatives for the Council, taking into account
should reduce textbook costs, and  savings that ICB seems to secure: 30 months
alternative financing         after project effectiveness
arrangements such as textbook  =  Council of MOES selects and recommends
rental schemes may, together,    textbook financing arrangement to Minister of
allow reductions in annual   the MOES by end of year 3 of ER.
textbook costs for both
Government and families
- 94 -



IBRD 28467R
18'30'                  19°00'                    19-30                   20'00                                             21P00'
s  -o  FED.    REP.    qF   YUGOSLAVIA
CR  TIA Ir   (SERBIA / MO  TENEGRO)
42130O                                                                                                                                              42'30'
TR   OJE 
ALBANIA 
42,00,                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42'--
o  SAECtEQ' CITIES
*    DISTiCT CENTERS                               Sh        D     I    T       E '9  MIRDITt  -,
®    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  IZ *    R1            Kur6neski
-      NATIONAL ROADS                                                                             IBER
- RAIROAD S5                                                                               skp
.RIVERS                                    Fu.6  Kug
-> *. DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                       u    T
- '' INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES
EtEVATIONS IN METERS:                                                                                                  F.Y.R.
_ t ,_,. *XX a {>BVtQIZE'<+MACEDONIA
1200
.             !   t  ~~~~~~~ 20 O                        D u r ra6i                                  w         
P ~~~~Adri  tic                                          4ETN                                  Ebsn\ t
W<~~~~~~~~A lrio I c
41 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    4
SeaL
9    IP    ;    v    AO   Sp
KILOMETERS
~~n~pdby9~~Np0..4LA ofh. W.ddEoA
'~RUSSIAN                 Vkor4
SWEDEN/    LATh'1A\  ~FED.
GEMANY        POLAND
CZECH           ~~~~~UKRAINE                                                          A
SWTZ AA?*.,..       HUNGARY                        40 4'    00OO'
LY CROAW1~    ROMANIA
[SERB/SerGREE                                                                                                      E
ri        ~~~Ad~,K                                                                                       .00-
Y~GRRECEAcgc~ATURKEY                                               (AAD 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~19,30                                         29                       20,301                   21,00'
JUJLY 1998



