                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 31861

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-33430 PPFI-Q2010)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9 MILLION (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                       FOR AN

                              EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                                     April 22, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective March 4, 2005)

               Currency Unit = Albania Lek
                    Lek 96.55 = US$ 1
                       US$ 1 = Lek 96.55

                      FISCAL YEAR
                January 1   December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIS     Center for Information and Statistics
DIS     Department of Information and Statistics
DO      Development Objective
EMIS    Education Management Information System
ERP     Education Reform Project
GOA     Government of Albania
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IPS     Institute for Pedagogical Studies
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOES    Ministry of Education and Sciences
MTR     Mid-term Review
NAEC    National Assessment and Examinations Center
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAPU    Policy Analysis and Planning Unit
PCD     Project Concept Document
PCP     Public Contact Point
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SRCAE   Statistical Report Card on Albanian Education
SRCBP   School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project
STD     Textbook Distribution Enterprise
STPH    State Textbook Publishing House
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
WB      World Bank

             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
           Country Director       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
             Sector Director      Charles Griffin
            Sector Manager        Maureen McLaughlin
         Task Team Leader         Peter Darvas

                                 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
                             EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
Annex 8. Ministry of Education and Science Comments on the Education Reform Project   30

Project ID: P069120                                                  Project Name: Education Reform Project
Team Leader: Peter Darvas                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                    Name: Education Reform Project                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-33430; PPFI-Q2010
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (45%); Central government administration
                            (37%); Other industry (18%)
                   Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Social analysis and monitoring (S); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/08/1999                                     Effective: 08/01/2000                07/19/2000
     Appraisal: 02/11/2000                                         MTR: 11/04/2002                  11/04/2002
      Approval: 05/11/2000                                      Closing: 07/31/2004                 10/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:                 Maureen McLaughlin                             James A. Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Peter Darvas                                   Sue Ellen Berryman
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Darvas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


The Project ratings reflect that, on balance, the major outcomes and the outputs were achieved and
sustainability is likely. Given the fact that the implementation was hindered by design and by capacity
problems especially at the beginning of the project implementation, a moderately satisfactory overall rating

would more appropriately reflect the project outcomes but this option is not available to the ICR team. The
project provides important lessons regarding designing and implementing future development programs
and investment projects in the education sector. In the meantime, the project significantly increased
management capacities and put a strategic agenda and reform program in motion. It established new
structures and procedures for key areas in education management and service delivery. The outcomes and
the fact that significant improvement was achieved by the Borrower should be recognized.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
 Original Objective: The development objective of the Education Reform Project was to assist the
 Ministry of Education and Sciences (MOES) in planning and managing the delivery of educational
 services and strengthening its accountability to stakeholders for that delivery. This objective was not
 changed during the project implementation. The outcome indicators were the following: (1) More effective
 Ministerial leadership and management of sector improvement; (2) Enhanced civic support for sectoral
 reform; (3) Statistical and information databases that are (a) routinely used for decision-making by policy
 makers at the central level, (b) routinely updated, and (c) routinely published in the form of education
 indicators for the broader public; (4) More rational and persuasive budgetary processes for the sector; and
 (5) Increased and better-used international aid resources.

 Context: Albania's economic transition in the 1990s was severely disrupted in 1997, when the collapse of
 pyramid schemes wiped out a large part of private savings in this poorest society of Europe and caused
 widespread civil unrest. This crisis also exposed an essentially weak State and underdeveloped public
 institutions. During the disturbances, people turned against both, causing widespread destruction of
 properties providing public services, such as schools. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the
 1999-2002 period put a central emphasis on governance and institution-building, based on the recognition
 that a strong State and effective public institutions are essential for sustaining long-term development.

 The economic reform of the early 1990s did not stimulate a similar reform process in the education sector.
 Curriculum reform appeared to be a complex and overwhelming challenge and was deferred throughout
 the 1990s. Intensive migrations left some schools, mostly in Tirana and in other cities, overcrowded, and
 others in rural areas, underutilized. Public expenditures were inefficient, enrollments started to decline,
 especially at the secondary level -- primarily due to the closure of many vocational and technical schools
 -- and the Third International Mathematics and Science Survey in 1999 ranked the performance of
 14-year old Albanian students the lowest in Europe. Typically, the more meaningful reforms were initiated
 in parallel to -- rather than from within -- the Ministry of Education and Science by an externally (Soros
 Foundation) funded development program that relied on non-governmental capacities and allocated
 resources to schools outside of the public routes.

 Between 1999 and 2000, reports by the Bank's Education Sector Work identified a large number of policy
 actions to be undertaken including reforming education management and administration, finances,
 curriculum, textbook-reform, training, decentralization and social participation. Under these
 circumstances, the CAS plans for the Education Reform Project (ERP) targeted systemic reforms that
 should start from an improved institutional and strategic capacity in the Ministry of Education and
 Sciences (MOES).

 A first education project, the School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project (SRCBP), was
 implemented between 1994 and 1999. The project targeted similar policy issues as the Education Reform
 Project, albeit with some different emphases. Given the serious deterioration of school infrastructure and



                                                      - 2 -

the constrained public finances, the Government could not significantly address the overall operation of
the education system and the urgent school rehabilitation needs. The school infrastructure was the
SRCBP's first and foremost priority. In addition, SRCBP, like ERP, attempted to address key sector
capacity issues, including planning and management information, quality assurance and textbook quality
improvement. Even though implementation of the SRCBP was rated satisfactory, sustainability of the
project outcomes was rated low and there was a reasonable justification that many of the project activities
needed to be repeated or continued during the new project due to insufficient capacity and high turnover of
the Ministry staff.

Relevance: The development objective of the ERP was generally in line with the 1998 CAS in that it
focused on building Government and public institutions. The project's overall concept as well as the
project components matched the country's needs at the time of the preparation and have also remained
relevant to the present. The plan was also based on the lessons learned from the first education project in
the country, which closed in 1998. Both the project objective and the specific indicators were harmonized
with two other Bank-financed projects, the Public Administration Reform Project that started in 2000 and
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit that started in 2001. There were links in terms of objectives,
indicators and activities between these projects. The expected project outcomes were in line with the
critical sector issues. The outputs delivered during implementation brought about significant and relevant
outcomes.

There were also problems with the project design, however. In particular, there was a disconnect between
the development objective and indicators and the overall project design. While the indicators were mostly
linked to capacity building through technical assistance, the Government's major efforts and the large
majority of the project funds went to school rehabilitation and textbook production. These activities were
significant and in line with key sector needs, but did not specifically relate to the development objective or
to the designated indicators of the project. This disconnect presented problems in monitoring and in early
project implementation.

Realism: The capacity building for planning and managing educational service delivery and for
strengthening accountability is a realistic goal in terms of what the project intended to achieve. However,
the project concept remained ambiguous especially in terms of how the development objective would be
measured. The development objective left it unclear under what circumstances would the assistance to the
Ministry -- as the key objective -- be successful, how such success should be measured, and indeed, what
improved service delivery would entail in the sector. This difficulty was reflected in monitoring of the key
outcome indicators; measuring progress along the key objective and outcome indicators have remained
persistently problematic, even if most of the outputs were delivered.

Limited Government ownership also negatively affected the realism of the project design. Even prior to
project effectiveness, high turnover among ministry staff from the senior leaders to the mid-level managers
constrained the Ministry's ability to implement the first Bank-financed project or to actively participate in
defining policy priorities, project activities or implementation arrangements. With the limited capacities,
setting high standards in a large number of areas could be considered unrealistic. A so-called "Special
Initiatives" subcomponent was a good example of this problem. Under this category, unidentified Ministry
initiatives were to be supported once they met "specific" criteria. In absence of adequate understanding of
these "specific" criteria in the Ministry, this activity was never implemented.

Prioritization: Previous sector work defined a broad set of critical sector issues. There was a very broad
scope of capacity building, ranging from Ministry reorganization to curriculum reform, to education
assessments, to building management information system and to education strategy, making it difficult for


                                                       - 3 -

 the Borrower to integrate all the new capacities. The general description of the project identified 13 broad
 outputs and further outputs were specified under each component. The lack of specificity in terms of
 priority areas in the project scope was detrimental to the project particularly given seriously limited
 Ministry capacities. The high expectations and the limited capacities haunted the project implementation.
 The project could have benefited from clearer and more narrowly defined set of policy priorities, better
 targeted technical assistance and investments and more measurable outputs.

3.2 Revised Objective:
 During the mid-term review of the project, which coincided with a change in the Minister's post, the Bank
 task team, together with the Government representatives concluded that the project objectives had not been
 fulfilled at that point and the implementation was unsatisfactory. However, the new Minister strengthened
 the Government's commitment towards the project, and -- consequently -- the review process did not
 propose the revision of the development objective. Implementation did improve after that mid-term review.

3.3 Original Components:
 1. Policy Design, Management, and Improvement of the Education System ($3.59 Million). This
 component was an institution-building and organizational reform component. It was designed to evaluate
 and strengthen basic Ministry functions and structure and to carry out various strategic planning activities
 and policy analyses. The component supported the establishment of new units, new structures and more
 competitive hiring policy as well as accountability measures (evaluation of Ministry activities and
 standards for staff performance). The primary role was assigned to a to-be established Council of the
 Ministry of Education and Sciences to set sector strategy and priorities and to a technical unit to act as a
 technical secretariat to the Council. The technical secretariat was assigned to conduct expenditure review,
 strategic planning and analyses of various policies.

 As mentioned before, under the "Special Initiatives" subcomponent, the project was also designed to
 provide funds to start to implement programs that had not been identified at the design phase but were
 supposed to improve the quality and administration of education. Proposals for these programs would
 receive funding if and when they met specific criteria. These criteria included that the Government and the
 World Bank needed to agree that the proposed program was of high priority in accordance with the
 MOES strategy, that it had been costed, that its cost effectiveness was shown to be satisfactory, that a
 satisfactory action plan was showing how and by whom the program would be implemented, and that the
 other resources needed for program implementation were available. The project design planned to set aside
 US$2 million for these previously unidentified proposals.

 The key expected outputs of the component were: (a) the establishment of a Council of the MOES that
 functions as a priority-setting and program-designing policy body; (b) the establishment of a technical
 policy analysis and planning unit that, as technical secretariat, supports the Council; (c) the development
 of financial analysis skills and tools in the technical secretariat; (d) the completion of a reform plan for the
 sector that meets specified criteria; (e) the completion of at least one instance of a program design that
 meets specified criteria; (f) a first annual reform work plan that meets specified criteria; and (g) the
 establishment of a PIU to manage the implementation of the project.

 From the development objective's perspective, this component was absolutely critical for the success of
 the project. It was not only important to deliver the numerous outputs, strategies and standards but the
 component was supposed to provide an overall umbrella for the rest of the project.

 2. Education Management Information System ($0.8 Million). This component was also an
 institution-strengthening component, built on the school mapping data base that had been completed under



                                                      - 4 -

the Bank's first education project in Albania and to be managed by a newly-established department within
the MOES, the Center for Information and Statistics (CIS). It supported a management information
system that was to link all branches of the Ministry, including school district offices and universities.

The key outputs were planned to include: (a) a simple EMIS that can be easily extended in terms of data,
applications, and users, introduced and tested in at least two pilot education district offices, and used
routinely by policymakers and managers at the Ministerial and district levels; and (b) publication of the
first "Statistical Report Card on Albanian Education" (SRCAE) for stakeholders.

3. Assessments and Examinations ($0.57 Million). This component was also planned as an
institution-building and policy reform component and also built on activities begun under the first
education project financed by the World Bank in Albania. It was planned to be managed by the National
Assessment and Examinations Center (NAEC), an agency under the auspices of the MOES.

The key expected outputs included: (a) creating and administering a university entrance examination that
meets international standards for quality and fairness; (b) conducting and analyzing the results of a
national grade 4 learning assessment in Albanian language, mathematics, and science and publishing these
results; and (c) preparing for activities to be completed under a follow-on project, including administering
national examinations for grades 8 and 12 and developing diagnostic assessment materials for teachers to
use in the classroom. This component appeared at the start of the project the best understood in terms of
purpose and implementation.

4. School Rehabilitation ($7.3 Million). This component included physical goods (civil works), policy
reform, and debt reduction. The component had the following planned goals and outputs:
l the development of building and design guidelines and specifications of bills of quantities for schools
      and furniture;
l the rehabilitation of 44 schools with approximately 22,000 places at an average estimated cost of
      US$200 per school place (i.e. the maximum number of students that can potentially be enrolled in a
      school);
l a transparent and rationalized model to allocate school rehabilitation financing among districts;
l private architectural firms or NGOs used for design and quality assurance functions; and
l communities participating in the rehabilitation of the schools and their grounds.


School rehabilitation had persistently been identified as the most acute problem for the sector, requiring
sustained support from Governmental, non-governmental and external sources alike. The major concern
with the inclusion of this component is that linkages were not made between investment under the
component and the project development objectives.

5. Textbooks ($2.62 Million). This component was a policy reform and physical goods component.
Within the policy reform, two State-owned companies, the State Textbook Publishing House (STPH) and
the Textbook Distribution Enterprise (TDE), were to be brought to the point of sale. The component
funded textbook procurement using international competitive bidding to reduce the costs and increase the
quality of the textbooks being purchased by Government and published textbooks for the new curricula in
vocational/technical education as a trial for privatizing publishing.




                                                     - 5 -

 The key outputs for this component were to be: (a) STPH and TDE brought to the point of sale; (b)
 technical assistance for the STPH and TDE and equipment provided for the STPH to create a level
 playing field during the privatization process; (c) contracts for publishing textbooks transparently
 provided; (d) textbooks procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB); and (e) new financing
 policy based on the basis of savings realized through ICB (including revisiting the percent of total
 textbook costs paid by Government versus parents).

 The components, activities and outputs were by and large in line with the development objective, with the
 exception of an issue raised in the context of the fourth component. The key challenge was stemming from
 the complexity of the design, the number and scope of various activities and the mismatch between these
 plans and the absorption capacity of the Ministry. Careful sequencing (with capacity building preceding
 other outputs) and a more narrow focus would have made the achievement of some of the outputs more
 timely and realistic. However, the Project Operational Manual reflected no such concern with sequencing
 the implementation schedule in line with the limited capacities.

3.4 Revised Components:
By the mid-term review of the project, there were some significant delays and a lag in disbursement.
However, the new MOES leadership, appointed just before the mid-term review, made some progress in
accelerating project implementation and no restructuring was initiated. Since the MOES had not been able
to meet the criteria for the Special Initiatives under the first component, the Bank and MOES agreed to
reallocate the US$2 million, originally planned for these special initiatives, to finance additional school
rehabilitation activities with a minor portion of the funds earmarked for school furniture and for technical
assistance for community participation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
 There was no formal Quality at Entry Review. There was a simple and largely incomplete Quality at
 Entry Review, provided by a WB staff member, based only on the Project Appraisal Document. This
 feedback rated the project at entry highly satisfactory based on institutional, political economy, and
 participation dimensions.

 Overall, this ICR rates the quality of entry unsatisfactory given (1) the disconnect between the objective
 and the project design (activities and investments), (2) the difficulties with measuring progress, (3) the
 lack of prioritization and overly complex assignment, and (4) inadequate Government ownership and lack
 of understanding by the Government of the project objective and key activities. There has been
 considerable uncertainty at the MOES as to how to implement, what to expect from the project and,
 consequently, delays in disbursement and in implementation and persistent problems in monitoring. Many
 of the problems regarding the Borrower capacities had been foreseen during the project preparatory work,
 but no adequate measures were put in place to mitigate the risks stemming from the subsequent problems.
 In the absence of such measures, the implementation of the project was significantly constrained during
 the first half of project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
While the development objective -- as defined in the original project concept -- was difficult to measure, the
project successfully assisted the Ministry in planning and managing the delivery of educational services and
strengthening its accountability. This is evidenced by (1) more transparent and accountable internal
procedures for hiring, performance standards and assessments, (2) new capacities in the Ministry for



                                                       - 6 -

strategic planning and policy analysis, financial planning, statistical information, public information and
textbook policy, (3) new structures and capacities established at central level for curriculum, teacher
training, and education assessments, (4) competitive procedures and private capacities for textbook
publishing and distribution, and (5) the completion and adoption of key strategies guiding education
investment, expenditures, decentralization and education for all policy.

Also, perhaps more importantly, most project activities brought about significant positive outcomes that
may not have been planned explicitly in the development objectives, but helped to support better education
by improving the conditions and capacities necessary to achieve measurable progress in learning outcomes
and in the quality of instruction. Whereas the development objective did not go as far as targeting such
improvements, the activities and project outputs clearly facilitated and targeted such achievements. For
example, the new textbook policy resulted in efficiency gains by cutting average textbook prices by over 30
percent. The establishment of the Curriculum Center and accompanying technical assistance contributed to
a curriculum reform, which in the next five years will establish the basis of significant improvement in the
quality of education. Also, there is some evidence from Tirana municipality -- measured by schools' self
reports -- that school rehabilitation and textbook provisions resulted in improvement in attendance and in
student performance, even though such expectations had not been formed at the beginning. Planning some
of these outcomes explicitly would have made the relevance of the project more meaningful and more
attractive to a broader group of stakeholders and beneficiaries of the system.

Relevance: The capacities and the increased accountability have remained relevant in terms of the current
Bank priorities and country assistance strategy updates. The project supported the development of a new
Government Education strategy, an education decentralization strategy and an Education for All strategy.
These will be important guidelines both for the Bank and for other donors in the next 10 years. School
rehabilitation, sponsored by the Government and various external donors, has so far covered about 20
percent of the total need. However, the standards, developed under the project, will guide civil works in the
next 10 years during which, approximately US$180 million is needed from internal and external resources
to complete the rehabilitation of schools in the country. The implementation of a curriculum reform
program, which has been designed through the ERP, has started in 2004. This will be the most critical
priority for the Government in the sector for the next five years and will require roughly US$4 million.
During these years, the Government will need to use the new textbook policy to issue the new textbooks
based on the new curriculum in the amount of US$4.5 million and also strengthen its assessment capacities
to be able to better define and monitor learning outcomes. The capacity building is also in line with the
Bank priorities as education remains a strategic sector for future investment. Given that the next education
project -- scheduled for the 2006 Fiscal Year -- will require key Governmental institutions to be capable of
implementing the Government Strategy and monitoring the results of the implementation. The project
relevance is substantial.

Efficacy: By the end of the project, significant indicators of institutional development have been achieved.
There are new internal processes within the Ministry, including competitive hiring and the performance
standards, which increased transparency. These standards were also supported by the Public
Administration Reform Project. The strategic activities (10-year strategic plan and plan for Education for
All) make both education management more accountable and sector developments more transparent. These
plans were also in line with the benchmarks of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit. The transparency of
the education system is also increased by the establishment of the Center for Educational Assessment and
Examinations and the Center's assessment and examination activities. A more capable, better structured
and more transparent Ministry is a key to achieve the Government's strategic objectives and to gain
stronger commitment and civic support for education reform. Lastly, the Ministry developed an education
decentralization agenda and is on track to implement this program.


                                                     - 7 -

The budgeting processes are more rational and persuasive as they are now based on a medium-term
expenditure framework, more transparent expenditure mechanism and costed long-term education sector
development agenda. As part of the budgeting and financial capabilities, the Ministry is able to monitor the
economic and fiscal benefits of interventions, track expenditures, and show improved accountability of its
and the sector's performance. There are also some key institutional developments that reflect improved
budgeting and financial capabilities, including the monitoring capabilities of the cost-efficiency of the
improved textbook production system and also the estimates and standards for school rehabilitation.

The statistical information databases have also been established with some qualifications. The first
statistical report has been published, improving significantly the transparency and accountability of the
sector. However, the statistical information is not linked to the EMIS nor to school mapping and its local
usability is also unknown.

There is very little concrete information about civic support for sectoral reform or for the increased and
better-used international aid resources, both being part of the original outcome indicators. In fact,
international aid for the education sector has decreased from US$26.5 million in 2000 to US$17.5 million
in 2004. However, this decline (nor an expected increase) is hardly an adequate measure of success for an
education reform project and should not be used as a basis of project rating.

While school infrastructure will become, in 2005, the responsibility of the municipal governments, new
infrastructure standards and school rehabilitation standards were established in the Ministry. These were
adopted by the Government as mandatory standards for the municipalities. These standards extend
transparency measures to the municipalities, some of whom have already started to link investments in
school rehabilitation and also improvements in textbook quality and distribution to improvements in key
educational indicators such as attendance and also in performance. A key unexpected outcome is the impact
of textbooks and school rehabilitation on dropouts and student performance (measured in terms of
successful passing of year-end examinations) at primary and secondary levels. In the sample of five
primary schools in Tirana municipality, the dropout rate at the primary level decreased by 15 percent, and
in the sample of four lower secondary schools, the dropout rate decreased from 7.6 percent to 3.6 percent in
one year, between 2003 and 2004. In the same sample of lower secondary schools, the passing rate
(successful completion of year-end examination) improved from 53 percent to 59 percent for all the
students and 59 percent to 66 percent among girls. While these improvements may not have been caused
only by the project interventions, these interventions clearly contributed to the positive trends.

In terms of finances, a number of indicators suggest improvements. For instance, the competitive textbook
printing and procurement system is likely to contribute not only to improved conditions of quality of
learning but also an impressively significant 33 percent reduction in the average price of textbooks. These
savings allowed broader access to textbooks (97 percent of the 1st to 7th graders received new textbooks).
An implementation plan for the education strategy includes detailed information on financing needs and a
significantly broader spectrum of expenditure categories including curriculum development, teacher
development and new textbooks covering the entire compulsory education. Also, as part of the
Government's overall education strategy, compulsory education is being extended from eight to nine years
which, in turn, will significantly improve education attainment (measured by the average number of school
years completed). These measures of improving access and education participation will bring about solid
improvements in the sector beyond the project's lifetime.

Overall, with minor shortcomings, the objectives were met and the project efficacy is substantial.




                                                      - 8 -

Efficiency: The efficiency of investment in institutional capacity building and technical assistance in
general cannot be measured against alternative investments. In the long-term, such capacities can assure
more efficient spending of internal and external resources in the sector. Another way in which the project
components involving Technical Assistance can have financial returns is through efficiency savings. This
can increase the efficiency of the entire public budget spent on education in Albania. The benefits could be
measured through improvements in learning as opposed to alternative investments. Such improvements
were evidenced in the Tirana school district, where the district officials monitored -- through school reports
-- the impact of the distribution of textbooks on learning and showed positive results even within a two-year
period. Similarly, efficiency gains may be combined with education benefits through the curriculum reform
program which is now based on larger knowledge areas rather than specialized subject fields. Such reform
can make both pre-, and in-service training more efficient and more effective in terms of learning
improvements. The one area where efficiency improvements could have been achieved with better planning
is to better link school rehabilitation to EMIS and assure that the capital expenditures are targeted at
schools with increasing student numbers and that investments follow the internal migration patterns.
Overall, efficiency should be rated substantial.

Overall, the strengthened Ministry capabilities and management processes, the reforms that have been
started and the strategic plans reflect significant improvements in education outcomes. These improvements
plus some additional outcomes that had not been foreseen at the beginning, make the achievement of the
development objective satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Policy Design, Management and Improvement of the Education System (US$1.56 Million):The
project successfully completed the restructuring of the Ministry of Education and Sciences. It helped
establish a Council of MOES in 2000 and a Policy Analysis and Policy Development Department in 2003.
The latter contributed to the development of key documents, including the Education sector strategy for
2004-2015, an implementation and financial plan for the strategy, and an Education for All development
proposal. A performance audit was carried out, as planned. Based on the audit outcomes and experience,
new performance standards were developed, training provided and a competitive hiring process was
established. These outputs were also in line with the Public Administration Reform Project objectives,
indicating adequate synergy between sector investment and adjustment operations.

The key outputs in the context of financial capabilities in the Ministry included the costing of the education
strategy, the public expenditure analysis, the medium-term expenditure framework and the monitoring of
the financial impact of the school rehabilitation and textbook production components. In addition to the
changes in the Ministry, the Institute of Pedagogical Studies was divided into a curriculum and a teacher
training center. The former became the central agency responsible for a curriculum reform, which from this
year on, will introduce a new curriculum for general education. The MOES, in collaboration with the new
Curriculum center, produced the National Framework Curriculum, including standards for assessment and
evaluation. While at the end, the component achieved satisfactory outcomes, it was marred at the beginning
by delays and, throughout, by problems of sequencing. The strategic documents were finalized only
towards the end of the project implementation and a question remains whether the strategies are fully
understood and owned by the staff. Also, the restructuring of the Ministry, new hirings and training were
not adequately sequenced. It appears that the high turnover will necessitate repeated capacity building for
new staff.

In addition to the Public Administration Reform Project, several outputs of this component were used as
conditions for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit. Overall, this component of the project is satisfactory,
as most of the originally expected institutional and strategic outputs have all been achieved and the



                                                      - 9 -

implementation of a significant curriculum reform has started and synergy between different Bank-financed
activities was established.

2. Education Management Information System (US$0.72 Million): The project developed the
fundamentals necessary for a functioning education management information system, including the
establishment of the Department of Information and Statistics, with a small staff. Also, the EMIS
component funded the development of a data collection and query system and both general administrative
and analytical softwares. However, these systems and softwares have never worked adequately. These were
supposed to link the Ministry with two pilot school districts, but this link has not been functional either, and
data has not been collected or analyzed. One positive measure is the statistical report card, which was first
issued in 2004. The report is helpful for the policy makers and the public alike and is expected to be
published on a yearly basis. Also, a contact point was established in the Ministry for the public to be able
to access information about the education sector, however, this facility is rarely used and the data is
somewhat outdated.

The component was rated unsatisfactory throughout the project implementation. One of the key limitations
is that there is no clarity among the decision makers as to how an EMIS should be used, i.e. whether it
should collect student-based information (to monitor participation and student performance) or
school-based information (to monitor supplies and efficiency). The lack of clarity is also stemming from the
fact that the key strategic and policy documents, which would have been able to identify the key
information necessary to monitor, were developed during the last third of the project implementation period.

3. Education Assessment (US$0.56 Million): The National Assessment and Examinations Center
(NAEC) was established in 2001 and carried out the first two sample-based learning assessments at grade
4 in mathematics and language in May 2002 and 2003. The assessment results were disseminated to the
public. A new 8th grade examination was developed and administered for the first time in June 2003. The
examination was administered for a second time in June 2004. The examinations were scored, the results
analyzed and reported by dissemination to stakeholders. The new matura examination was developed and
administered for the first time in June 2004 in mathematics, literature, science and Albanian language. The
NAEC also completed in 2004 the national university entrance examination.

The establishment of the new education assessment and examination capacity, as well as the first
assessments and examinations are highly satisfactory. They assure improved system accountability
(assessments) and transparency (examinations). Even though the Center is independent, it has an important
public purpose and needs to be continually financed from the public budget.

4. School Rehabilitation (US$9.53 Million): The project targeted and completed the rehabilitation of 44
schools with about 22,000 school places. Each school district participated in the project, and school
selection was carried out based on a school mapping exercise. The school mapping was completed by the
Ministry and considered as one of the key outputs of the project. The mapping software is used for all other
possible investments, such as state budget and also by the donors involved in the education sector.
However, the mapping software cannot and did not substitute for a properly functioning EMIS. The latter
should have been able to monitor the significant internal migrations in the country and adjust the targeting
of civil works to the changing need. In absence of a link with EMIS, school rehabilitation at times targeted
schools with a declining student population, when priority should have been given to overcrowded schools.
During the implementation of this component, allegations were made about possible mis-procurement or
mishandling of funds. However, these allegations were not substantiated.




                                                     - 10 -

The Ministry also developed new standards for school construction and for school rehabilitation and has
issued a decree that mandates these standards for the municipalities, which are taking over the
responsibility of maintaining school infrastructure. Establishing and implementing the guidelines has
strengthened the capacity at the Investment Unit of the Ministry, which, in turn, started to assist the local
governments in their capacities of managing school infrastructure.

Overall, the component output is satisfactory as it did achieve the targeted number of school
rehabilitations, albeit with some delay, and set standards that are being used for continued rehabilitation to
be supported by central, local and international funds.

5. Textbooks (US$3.04 Million): There are three significant outputs for the textbook component: First, a
new, more liberal textbook policy was prepared and adopted by the Government. Accordingly, new training
materials were developed and training provided to Ministry staff and to other stakeholders. Second, the
privatization of the textbook publishing and distribution companies was nearly fully completed. Both
companies were brought to the point of sale by April 2004 and the state textbook publishing company was
sold in August 2004. Thirdly, the Ministry issued two tenders, one by using the IDA funds to publish
3,340,000 textbooks in 2003 through International Competitive Bidding for grades 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 and one
by using Government funds to publish textbooks in 2004 through National Competitive Bidding for grades
1, 2 and 6. Both were considered successful and both resulted in significant improvement of the physical
quality of textbooks while the average price of textbooks declined from US$1.50 to US$1.



   Textbook Publishing          Amount of Books           Cost in Albanian Lek            Cost in US$
                                     Printed
  2002 through State              3,760 thousand                150.33 Lek                    $1.50
  monopoly
  2003 through                    3,340 thousand                 99.12 Lek                    $1.00
  Competitive system

About 94 percent of students in the first seven grades of basic education received free textbooks, which are
returned to the school to be used by three consecutive classes. The component is rated as satisfactory as a
more competitive system resulted in improved quality and efficiency.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
All the project components targeted and achieved significant institutional development impact. Given the
weak public administration system, overly political selection and decision making, such a strong focus on
institutional development is completely justified. Starting from 2004, education in Albania is being
decentralized and that requires new roles and responsibilities at each level of education administration.
Therefore, linking investment with institutional capacity building should continue.




                                                     - 11 -

At the central level, important steps were taken to make the MOES more accountable and performance,
hiring and budgeting processes more transparent. While it cannot be expected that the institutionalized
changes will be unequivocally accepted and the new procedures will all be functional and effective, the
steps taken have been steps in the right direction. The new strategic documents and guidelines listed under
4.2 (1st component) will also guide development for the next 10-year period, including those that define
practices for subnational levels, such as municipalities (school maintenance) and schools (curriculum
standards). The other central agencies, including the Curriculum and Teacher Training Centers and the
National Assessment and Examinations Center (NAEC) have all been given a new mandate and
strengthened capabilities. Finally, the privatization of the textbook publishing and distribution business
started to open up the sector for private providers. It is expected by the Ministry that the teacher training
standards that are being developed in the near future, will also open up this area for the private sector.
Overall, the institutional development impact of the project is substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project implementation was not affected by any factors outside the control of the Government or
implementing agency. This project did not have major disruptions, even though reforms and donor-funded
project implementation in Albania are generally constrained by political instability.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government reshufflings were carried out at the beginning of the project and also after one year of the
project implementation. Whereas the first reshuffling resulted in significant loss of continuity and
institutional memory, the second reshuffling actually helped speed up implementation by bringing on board
a new Minister who was strongly committed to the objectives and the project implementation. Other
changes in the Ministry's key personnel also resulted in changes in strategic direction and lack of
continuity. These changes caused some disruptions but did not have a significant impact. Finally, there
were also several changes in the Project Implementation Unit, affecting the speed of project direction,
sometimes negatively, sometimes positively.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU capacity was considered weak for a significant period of project implementation. Specifically, the
procurement capacity was problematic and required special actions, aiming at its reinforcement. The PIU
staff changes, which followed the project mid-term review (MTR), brought positive results in the overall
project implementation pace. Following the mid-term review, the PIU hired an implementation specialist
that helped speed up implementation. The project implementation was also affected by allegations of
inappropriate handling of project funds, procurement or other funds used under the same Government
development program. One PIU Director resigned and investigations were carried out, but these
investigations did not substantiate the allegations until this report was completed.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Disbursement was only 12 percent at the mid-term. After the mid-term review, the disbursement speeded up
but an acceptable disbursement rate required intensive implementation support. Changes in the exchange
rates resulted in 7.3 percent gains in the total available IDA credit (XDR9 Million, or US$13.66 Million
during the implementation period). The disbursed IDA credit was 3.2 percent higher than the amount
estimated at appraisal, whereas the Government reported a 5.2 percent increase of its contribution relative
to the estimates. No problems were encountered with Borrower contributions. By the closing of the project,
the total project costs -- including IDA disbursement and Government contribution -- increased by 3.6
percent compared to the estimates. Still, by project closing, about 9.3 percent of the IDA funds -- available



                                                      - 12 -

from the exchange rate gains -- were left unspent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability rating is likely. Sustainability needs to be analyzed at four levels: (1)
what are the systemic implications of the project for future Government activities in the sector; (2) what is
the technical, institutional impact of the project; (3) financial issues: whether the efficiency gains can be
sustained; and (4) economic feasibility: whether the development priorities set up by the project are likely to
be provided.

1. The key issue for the Government is how the project affected the future conditions and performance of
the education system and whether the strategic direction taken can be adequately financed. Presently,
education is underfinanced relative to the country's income level and its overall public expenditures.
However, given the absence of credible purpose -- i.e. how would the system's productivity change if more
funding was provided -- increasing public funding had not been justified until recently. The new education
strategy provides this needed direction. However, it is not enough to publish the strategy, it is also
necessary that the strategy becomes a guidance for the key agencies responsible for service delivery. Also,
increasing compulsory education to 9 years, addressing the deferred investments into the capital stock and
establishing a more accountable system (via assessments and EMIS) are an adequate basis for increased
public financing, especially in a country where the student-age population is stable or increasing for the
next 10 years. The financial plans of the education strategy need to include the recurrent expenditures of an
expanded system and these will have to be reflected in the medium-term expenditures. We need to
emphasize that there is no assurance for increased funding of the sector but there is a stronger justification
for it as a result of the project. The Government ownership altogether is substantial.

2. The question at technical/institutional level is how the institutional capacities that have been set up or
strengthened through the project will have been sustained in the future.
l A new Ministry structure has been introduced but the Ministry continues to suffer from high staff
    turnover.
l A satisfactory capacity for education assessment and examinations is in place, however, it is unclear
    whether the Government will continue to finance the new center.
l The new textbook policy, which introduced free textbooks for basic education, has already given some
    impact on improving access and quality of the system. This impact will only be sustained if the
    textbook publishing system remains transparent and competitive.
l Another key area is the school rehabilitation. With the new decentralization policy in place, which
    transfers the implementation of capital investment to local government and also work carried out so far
    by the MOES on introducing the new guidelines and standards to the local government; even this
    activity is likely to be sustained. Nevertheless, this is tempered by the current capacity of local
    government and also the fact that the new decentralization policy is still at very early implementation
    stages.

Overall, sustainability of the increased technical/institutional capacities is substantial.

3. The financial implications of the project are modest, even at some levels, some achievements are
impressive. The project started some activities that could potentially bring efficiency gains. The cost of
textbook production has been reduced by 33 percent. Standards and guidelines of rehabilitation will make
it easier to plan continued school rehabilitation and minimize overspending.




                                                       - 13 -

4. Albania will continue to rely on donor support if it intends to bring its education system to a level that is
compatible with European standards. The implementation of the (pre-tertiary) education strategy will
require about US$200 million over the next 10 years or about US$20 million per year. This is roughly 10
percent of the present and future public education expenditures spent from internal sources for investments
and recurrent expenditures. While 10 percent for non-recurrent expenditures is more than what the present
system can afford, the Government already made, for 2005, a commitment of US$10 million for continued
school rehabilitation, which is 5 percent of its education budget and some 60 percent of the funds needed
yearly for 10 years. The proper financial estimates and the Government commitment together constitute a
good basis for a possible sectorwide approach with pooled donor funding. While the Government's
commitment to continued school rehabilitation is impressive, its education expenditures at around 3 percent
of GDP point to modest prospects for economic stability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are few areas where transition arrangements are needed, since most of interventions took place within
the context of pre-existing structures.
1. The education strategy, together with the activities envisioned for application for Education for All,
funding will have to be transformed by the Government into an education development program with clear
commitment from the Government for its own funding and reliable estimates for recurrent expenditures,
plus a more detailed implementation plan.
2. Education decentralization needs significant institutional planning and strengthening. This requires that
municipalities develop capacities for local school system planning, and standards are developed and
approved for infrastructure maintenance.
3. One of the crucial issues is the future decision on the Center for Educational Assessments and
Examinations (CEAE). The CEAE, created under the project, is an independent body, and provides
valuable public service. However, funding from the budget is not yet assured. Therefore, an urgent decision
needs to be made for its further financing through public funds.
4. A clear decision needs to be made on the purpose of EMIS use: monitoring of participation and
performance of students or monitoring the supplies and efficiency.
5. Also, arrangements need to be considered for the newly established Curriculum and Teacher Training
Centers. Both institutes, established under the project, would clearly need to be considerably strengthened.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
During the preparation phase, the Bank team carried out a number of important steps. It reviewed the
lessons learned under the previous investment project and even considered a supplementary loan to
complete all activities. It also carried out detailed economic sector work covering numerous key issues, i.e.
economic analysis, institutional analysis, social assessment, and review of the vocational education sector,
etc. Finally, it linked the project preparation to the overall Bank strategy in the education sector with the
intention to bring Albanian education on par with its neighbors. As a result, it identified a relevant agenda
for the project.

However, this ICR has some reservations given the disconnect between the development objectives and
outcome indicators, on the one hand, and project design, on the other. Together with the lack of measurable
indicators and the lack of clear priorities, these problems contributed to confusion on the Government side,
uncertainty about the objectives, slow implementation and disbursement, and persistent problems with
project monitoring. For these reasons, the Bank's performance at lending was unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                       - 14 -

The Bank carried out a mid-term review together with the Government, and decided that the project
development objectives should not be changed. Instead, the Bank team reallocated the IDA funds between
expenditure categories and components, started to provide a much more proactive assistance through more
frequent supervision and daily contacts with the PIU and with the Ministry and extended the project closing
date. As a result, implementation improved dramatically, due to (1) more extensive Bank assistance and (2)
stronger Government ownership, which was also facilitated by the Bank team starting with a mid-term
review workshop. The Bank performance was satisfactory during supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory since increased supervision compensated for the
problems at the early stages and contributed to achieving the development objectives as well as to
completing most assignments.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the preparation period, Government ownership was limited. The Ministry staff frequently changed,
resulting in very little capacity or institutional memory to follow up on previous experience. Neither the
Ministry nor the Government identified key policy priorities or an agenda that would be clear and realistic
for all stakeholders. The limited ownership was also reflected in that the Borrower did complete in time all
the preparatory work, required prior to Board approval. Therefore, the Borrower's role in designing the
project was minimal and their performance at the lending phase was unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The project status was not satisfactory at the beginning of the implementation, with all the components
having problems and disbursement delays. The most serious delay -- from the MOES side -- was in the
context of developing a priority list of schools for rehabilitation, based on the school mapping exercise.
Since this was the precondition for starting the implementation of the school rehabilitation component,
considerable delays occurred in the project implementation phase. Delays also happened in revisiting the
strategy on textbook publishing houses. Frequent changes among senior MOES staff had a negative impact
on its performance, especially at the early days of project implementation. However, starting from mid-term
review, the MOES significantly improved its overall performance, especially after a Government
reshuffling brought a new Minister on board. Efforts were made to strengthen the capacity of the staff,
which was reflected in achieving positive results in all but one component. As a result of these significant
improvements, the Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Now, that the capacities
in the Ministry have increased, an education strategy is in place, there is a good reason to expect that the
problems faced by the ERP will not present major constraints in the planning of new projects and during
future interventions in the education sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit performed well at the start, but at mid-term, both the director and the
procurement officer were replaced and the unit had serious capacity problems until finally an international
advisor and a senior procurement specialist were brought on board. Also, from mid-term, stronger
Government oversight helped to improve project implementation. Altogether, the PIU's performance has to
be rated satisfactory,given that it responded to all the emerging challenges and completed project
implementation in good shape.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory mostly because by project closing, the project was
able to achieve its intended goals, complete all activities, and reach the expected outputs. Whereas there
were challenges at the beginning, the problems were addressed and eventually both the MOES and the PIU


                                                      - 15 -

appeared to be on track.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons for project planning:
General:

l Project activities and investments should be more closely linked to the development objective. Even
   with the expectation that institutional capacities increase overtime, investment projects in the education
   sector need to be focused, with realistic and measurable development indicators.
l Key performance indicators need to be more thoroughly and realistically planned. Stronger
   Governmental ownership and adequate monitoring arrangements need to be carefully established at the
   lending phase.
l Given the upcoming decentralization, institutional capacity building should strengthen its focus on
   sub-national levels, including schools and municipalities. Schools need capacities and incentives to
   strengthen service delivery and municipalities to manage the local school system.
l The next project should be linked with the education strategy. The Government contribution to
   investment components within the project should increase as they need to provide their own investment
   into implementing a development program. Also, some activities that are necessary to be financed
   beyond the project's lifetime, should be financed by the Bank or other donors on a declining scale.
l Ensure that TA, if required, is provided early and there are appropriate measures for the Ministry and
   other local agencies to absorb TA input.

Education Sector specific:
l Investment into infrastructure should continue but it needs to be linked to reallocation of resources
   between school districts to favor those where migration is oriented. Also, future projects should better
   target overcrowded schools within school districts.
l The purpose and specification of EMIS need more focus. The first and foremost issue is student
   migration whereas other aspects (such as education inputs, processes and outcomes) could gradually be
   added to the information system. In the center, capacity building in finances has to be strengthened.
   Formula financing, sustained financial planning and accountability instruments (inspectorate functions)
   need stronger focus in the Ministry.
l Community participation in managing school-based activities can be achieved through demand-driven
   interventions. These appear to be also effective instruments in achieving measurable improvements in
   key indicators such as decreasing absenteeism, increasing participation, and even improving learning
   performance.
l Investment into curriculum needs to be continued for the next five to complete the reform for
   compulsory education, even if Bank financing into some aspects (i.e. teacher training, textbook
   publishing) should be on a declining scale. In this program, the curriculum of various knowledge
   groups should continue to be broadly based, consolidating narrowly defined subjects and continuing to
   integrate new pedagogical methods focusing on skills rather than factual information. Both pre-service
   and in-service training need to be adjusted to the new curriculum, as teachers' skills and qualifications
   need to be broader overarching several subject areas. In-service training and textbook production
   should follow suit.

Lessons for project implementation:

l Integration of project implementation in the MOES: Project activities should be implanted and
   implemented in the relevant departments in the MOES, while some fiduciary activities could be carried



                                                    - 16 -

    out by an intergovernmental project unit (under the Ministry of Finance).
l The investment projects should have clear implementation plans/operational manuals by the beginning
    of project implementation. Such manuals need to be fully integrated into the regular activity plans of
    the relevant MOES units.
l Supervision missions need to give more emphasis to monitoring outputs and outcomes.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
"The World Bank Project is considered to be successful by all measures, unparallel to other donor-funded
projects. By contrast, its success cannot even be matched by the previous World Bank Project, which, by
comparison, falls short of the size and success achieved with the current project. Admittedly, a huge
number of both local and international experts were ideally involved with this project. A significant role
was played by the education team attached to the World Bank Mission in the successful completion of the
project.

The project drew to an end within the set deadlines. In the first two years, the project got off to a bad start,
with the real developments not becoming effective until 2002 and in the years 2003-2004, a time period
that speeded up the attainment of the set targets."

Lessons learned

l "The conceiving stage of the project was rather complex and mixed: Therefore, issues have come up
    during its implementation, mainly related to legal, political, organizational, and management areas in
    component 1 as well as concrete matters technically oriented into components 2-5.
l In view of the reform initiatives taken by the Government, the endless and consistent efforts in the
    education sector (such as EFA/FTI) as well as the outcomes in the implementation of the component,
    MOES will keep focusing on organizational and legal reforms and other initiatives to follow. In
    addition, there is a need for efforts to be made in terms of technical orientation in the curriculum
    development, teacher training and the preparation of school textbooks and other teaching materials,
    publishing, printing and distributing textbooks. Furthermore, the attempts will continue in
    rehabilitating schools and participating in national and international evaluations. These could well be
    considered as top priorities to be considered and supported in the future."

See in Annex 8 the full text of the MOES comments.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Better ministerial leadership and             Improved leadership and strengthened            A stronger, more qualified and proactive
management of sector reform.                     management capacity in the MOES.                leadership and management team for the
                                                                                                 MOES is in place and is functioning more
                                                                                                 effectively. Significant organizational
                                                                                                 structural changes have been implemented at
                                                                                                 the central-MOES and its
                                                                                                 agencies/institutions. Also, there are new
                                                                                                 standards, audit and competitive hiring
                                                                                                 procedures. In conjunction with overall
                                                                                                 guidelines and legal/regulatory reforms of the
                                                                                                 GOA, steady progress has been made with
                                                                                                 regard to decentralization and devolution to
                                                                                                 the reorganized district-level. Education
                                                                                                 sector reform is driven by long-term
                                                                                                 education strategy, decentralization strategy
                                                                                                 and Education for All strategy.
2. More civic support for sectoral reform.       Increased proportion of population satisfied    The results of M&E study indicated that the
                                                 with the education system.                      majority of the public was aware of main
                                                                                                 project activities and expressed high
                                                                                                 satisfaction. School rehabilitation and new
                                                                                                 basic school furniture are viewed positively,
                                                                                                 as is the increased availability of reprinted
                                                                                                 textbooks. School rehabilitation received local
                                                                                                 support, education performance in areas
                                                                                                 receiving support improved.
3. Statistical and information databases: (a)    (i) Department of Information and Statistics    Department of Information and Statistics was
used for decision-making by policy               established; (ii) data are available, routinely established and functioning. The First
makers; (b) routinely updated; and (c)           updated and used for decision-making; and       Statistical Report was published; but will
regularly published in the form of education     (iii) Annual Statistical Report Card            need further improvement since it was not
indicators for the broader public in Statistical published.                                      linked to the EMIS and the school mapping
Report Card on Albanian Education.                                                               program. Investments in hardware and
                                                                                                 software have resulted in technically sound
                                                                                                 systems. However, full implementation and
                                                                                                 on-going use of the EMIS has not been
                                                                                                 realized at the MOES and within the pilot
                                                                                                 districts.
4. More rational and persuasive budgetary        Improved budgetary process for the              Public expenditure tracking analysis was
processes for the sector.                        education sector.                               carried out, medium-term expenditure
                                                                                                 framework was established, financial
                                                                                                 estimates for long-term education strategy
                                                                                                 were prepared, financial implications of some
                                                                                                 reform steps (textbooks, assessments) were
                                                                                                 made. Education budget for 2005 includes
                                                                                                 line for continued school rehabilitation.
5. Increased and better-used international       Increased and better used-international aid     International aid resources can be linked to
aid resources.                                   resources.                                      programmatic development agenda and
                                                                                                 some key reform steps have been budgeted.
                                                                                                 Meanwhile, the international aid resources
                                                                                                 have decreased, but this is independent from
                                                                                                 the project implementation.




                                                                     - 18 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Strategy document and annual work plan       MOES will complete the education sector           The MOES completed the education strategy
acceptable to IDA.                              strategy for sectoral reform, including the       for 2004-2015 and a sector plan for the
                                                education sector plan for the EFA FTI             Education for All application.
                                                application.
2. Establishment of Council of the MOES         The Council of Ministry to be established and The Council was established and functioning.
that functions as priority/setting program      reviewing all strategic documents. The
designing policy body.                          Council of Ministry to be established.
3. Establishment of a Policy Analysis and       PAPU established and taking lead role in          PAPU was established in 2003 and
Planning Unit (PAPU) in the MOES:               developing the strategic documents.               functioning.
4. Institutional/Peer Review of the Institute   The MOES approves the proposed new                A review of the IPS completed. The IPS was
for Pedagogical Studies (IPS); and a more       structures of the IPS.                            restructured based on the recommendations
effective organizational structure of the IPS is                                                  of the review, dividing it into Curriculum and
in place to carry out reforms for curriculum                                                      Training Centers.
and teacher education in primary and
secondary education.
5. Curriculum review and the design of a        A curriculum reform plan has been prepared (i) National curriculum concept was
curriculum reform plan.                         and approved by the MOES; and the IPS was developed by the Curriculum center and
                                                restructured and strengthened to carry out        adopted by MOES. Curriculum framework for
                                                the implementation of curriculum reform.          Grades 1 - 8 was developed and published
                                                                                                  by July 2004; and Syllabi for Grades 1 and 6
                                                                                                  was piloted/implemented during 2004-2005
6. Completion of teacher training for           Curriculum for teacher training (information      Training was not carried out before project
informatics teachers in secondary education.    technology) prepared; and 150 teachers are        closing.
                                                trained in information technology.
7. Pilot project and data collection and        Pilot project and data collection and querying The system was established; but it is not yet
querying system in place 12 months after        system.                                           functioning due mainly to the shortage of
project effectiveness.                                                                            trained staff.
8. General administrative software (4           General administrative software (4 modules) The software was installed.
modules) developed 24 months after project      developed 24 months after project
effectiveness.                                  effectiveness.
9. Analytic and policy support software         Analytic and policy support software              Software was installed; and staff were
developed and institutionalized by project      developed and institutionalized in MOES.          trained, but the software was not functioning
end.                                                                                              by the end of the Project.
10. Public contact point (PCP) operational      The PCP is operational and staffed; and           PCP operational but the majority of the public
24 months after project effectiveness.          used by the public to access information          were not aware of PCP and did not use the
                                                provided by MOES.                                 system.
11. Establishment of the Department of          (i) DIS established and functioning; (ii) 6 staff DIS was established and functioning, but it
Information and Statistics (DIS), which is      hired and trained; and (iii) Publication of first lacked the capacity in terms of system
adequately staffed and supported by project     "Statistical Report Card".                        development, planning and implementation
end.                                                                                              and management. The First Statistical Report
                                                                                                  was prepared and printed, but it was not
                                                                                                  linked to EMIS and Map Decision program.
12. Assessment and Examinations Center is Completion of (i) a pilot sample assessment             NCAE established and operational. It carried
established and internationally certified as    of grade 4 students in 3 subjects; and (ii) a     out a pilot sample assessment. In addition,
professional, and press clips of results.       nationwide sample based assessment of             the Center carried out a national college
                                                grade 4 student achievement in 3 subjects.        entrance examination; and a grade 8 (matura)
                                                                                                  examination.
13. New 8th grade examination conducted         Completion of grade 8th examination and           The Center completed the 8th grade national
and graded.                                     dissemination of the results.                     examination on math, literature, science and
                                                                                                  Albania language.
14. New matura pretested.                       New matura prepared and pretested by the          The Center completed the 12th grade
                                                end of Project.                                   national examination on math, literature,
                                                                                                  science and Albania language.
15. Development and administration of           Preparation and completion of a new               The Center completed a national university
university entrance examinations by NCAE.       university entrance examination by NCAE --        entrance examination.
                                                for a more objective, equitable and effective




                                                                   - 19 -

                                               implementation of student admission policy.
16. 35,000 school places (about 44 schools) Rehabilitation and refurbishment of 35,000       44 schools were rehabilitated and refurbished
rehabilitated and refurbished.                 school places.                                by the end of the Project.

17. Minister of MOES publishes decree to       Completion of standards for school            School standards were completed under the
adopt new design, construction, and            construction and refurbishment; and adoption project; and used in the design of school
quantities guidelines for all construction and of new design, construction and quantities    rehabilitation projects.
rehabilitation activities: end of year 1.      guidelines for all construction and
                                               rehabilitation activities.
18. MOES and MOP bring STPH and TDE            STPH and TDE to be brought to point of        Both agencies were brought to the point of
to point of sale according to timelines        sale.                                         sale. By the end of the Project, STPH was
specified in detailed plan of action.                                                        privatized; and the privatization of TDE was
                                                                                             postponed due to large debts.
19. Development and adoption of a new          A new textbook policy for primary and         A new textbook policy was prepared and
textbook policy for primary and secondary      secondary education completed and adopted. adopted.
education.

20. (i) Provision of core textbooks in basic   (i) Provision of textbooks for all basic      (i) Textbooks for all basic education students
education (grades 1-8); and (ii) 20% of basic education students in grades 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 in grades 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 under the Project were
education students (G1-8) with "free" core     under the Project; and (ii) about 95%         provided; and (ii) about 94% students in
textbooks increased from 80% in 2000 to        students in grades 1-8 will access to free    grades 1-7 receive free textbooks (according
95% in 2004.                                   core textbooks.                               to a survey of 186 household members).

1End of project




                                                                   - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate           Estimate         Appraisal
                          Component                                US$ million         US$ million
1. Policy Design and Management                                          3.56                 1.56             0.38
2. Education Management Information System                               0.78                 0.72             0.77
3. Assessment/Examinations                                               0.54                 0.56             0.93
4. School Rehabilitation                                                 6.52                 9.53             1.16
5. Textbooks                                                             2.44                 3.04             1.05

Total Baseline Cost                                                     13.84               15.41
  Physical Contingencies                                                 0.73                 0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                    0.31                 0.00
                             Total Project Costs                        14.88               15.41
                     Total Financing Required                           14.88               15.41
Comment: The 3.6 percent increase in total project costs is caused by exchange rate gains on the XDR 9
Million IDA during the implementation period.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                      2           N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                1.40              2.70               1.90              0.00           6.00
                                        (1.10)            (2.00)            (1.40)             (0.00)        (4.50)
2. Goods                                3.50              0.00               0.20              0.00           3.70
                                        (3.00)            (0.00)            (0.10)             (0.00)        (3.10)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00               4.30              0.00           4.30
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)            (4.20)             (0.00)        (4.20)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00              0.00               0.50              0.40           0.90
Costs
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.20)             (0.00)        (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00           0.00
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00           0.00
                                        (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)
    Total                               4.90              2.70               6.90              0.40           14.90
                                        (4.10)            (2.00)            (5.90)             (0.00)       (12.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes Minor Works (aggregate US$1.9 million) of less than US$100,000; International Shopping (aggregate
US$0.2 million) of less than US$100,000; National Shopping (aggregate US$0.04 million) of less than US$25,000;
Direct Contracting (aggregate US$0.05 million) for purchase of proprietary items for reasons of compatibility and
standardization. Inncremental Operating Costs (aggregate of US$0.9 million), financed by IDA on a declining
basis, relating to managing the Project.
Comment: The US$0.02 difference between the planned project costs by components and by procurement
arrangements is based on the PAD estimates.




                                                       - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               7.70              0.00             0.00              7.70
                                           (0.00)             (5.45)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.45)
   2. Goods                                 3.64               0.00              0.84             0.00              4.48
                                           (3.05)             (0.00)            (0.75)            (0.00)           (3.80)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.00             0.00              3.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.90)            (0.00)           (2.90)
   4. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              0.05             0.00              0.05
   Costs
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.05)            (0.00)           (0.05)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.11             0.00              0.11
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.11)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.07             0.00              0.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (0.07)
       Total                                3.64               7.70              4.07             0.00             15.41
                                           (3.05)             (5.45)            (3.88)            (0.00)           (12.38)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (project costs are inclusive of physical and price contingencies)
(in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
   Component (project               Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
  costs are inclusive of
    physical and price
      contingencies)
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Policy Design and            3.37         0.22         0.00        1.50         0.06       0.00       44.5      27.3      0.0
Management
2. Education Management         0.63         0.17         0.00        0.59         0.13       0.00       93.7      76.5      0.0
Information System
3.                              0.43         0.14         0.00        0.44         0.12       0.00       102.3     85.7      0.0
Assessment/Examinations
4. School Rehabilitation        5.40         1.90         0.00        7.28         2.25       0.00       134.8    118.4      0.0
5. Textbooks                    2.17         0.45         0.00        2.57         0.47       0.00       118.4    104.4      0.0
TOTAL                          12.00         2.88         0.00       12.38         3.03       0.00       103.2    105.2      0.0

   Comment: Based on the XDR9 Million IDA, USD13.66 Million was available for the ERP and USD1.27
   Million was left undisbursed, which is 9.3 percent of the available total IDA credit.




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/08/1999                     PTL (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSTRUCTION AND
                                             PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                             ADMINISTRATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEARNING
                                             AND ASSESSMENT AND
                                             EXAMINATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             PAS (1) FMS (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/18/2000                     TTL (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); PAS (1); FMS
                                             (1); ARCHITECT,
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             INFORMATION
                                             SPECIALIST,
                                             CONSULTANT ( 1).


 Supervision

              10/02/2000                9    TTL (1); SR. OPERATIONS          S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); SR. PSM
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (3); FMS (1);
                                             PAS (1)
              05/09/2001                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              10/08/2001                8    TTL & EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);      S               S
                                             TTL & EDUC. ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SR. OPERATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEAD
                                             PUBLIC SEC MAN SP (1); PAS
                                             (1); CONSTRUC & IMPLEM
                                             SPC (1); ASSESSMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              02/11/2002                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);



                                              - 24 -

                                           SECTOR MANAGER (1)
               05/17/2002              4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               05/17/2003              5   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               U    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. PROCUR SPECIALIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. FINAN MANAG SPECIA
                                           (1)
               07/19/2003              4   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. PROC./IT SPECIAL (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               05/04/2004              4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   U    S
                                           PROCUREMENT/MIS SPEC
                                           (1);
                                           IMPLEMENTATION/ASSESS
                                           MENT CONSULTANT (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           JPA (1)


 ICR
               02/07/2005             2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                53.74                     157,648.74
  Supervision                        136.16                      243,542.07
  ICR                                  17.86                      15,313.66
  Total




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

    "Education Reform Project - Development Credit Agreement", Credit Number 3343, International
     Development Association, June 2000

    "Education Reform Project  Project Appraisal Document", The World Bank, April 2000

    "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, October
     8-12, 2001

    "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, February
     6-11, 2002

    "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, July 1-7,
     2002

    "Education Reform Project - Mid Term Review Supervision Mission Aide Memoire" World
     Bank, Tirana, November 4-12, 2002

    "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, July
     14-18, 2003

     "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, April
     13-16, 2004

    "Education Reform Project - Supervision Mission Aide Memoire", World Bank, Tirana, November
     8, 2004

    "Final Consultant Report on the Curriculum Development and Implementation Component",
     MOES, Dr. Alexandru Crisan, February 2004

    "Final Draft Report on the Performance Standards of the MOES and Evaluation Plan", October
     2004

    "Final Report on Technical Assistance to Develop and Strengthen Teacher Training Agency",
     MOES, Dr. Frank Schorn, October 2004

    "Public Expenditure Tracking Survey", MOES, C. Tibi, October 2004

    "Report on Performance Review", MOES , A. MacDonald, R. D'Aoust, C.Harison, May 2003

    "Report on EMIS Evaluation", MOES, PIU, October 2004

     "Assesment of the Implementation of the Education Management Information System
     Component", MOES, E. Sheshi, R. D'Aoust, April 2004

    "School-Leaving Examination of the Compulsory Education - Mathematics and Albanian
     Language" Academic year 2002-2003, MOES, NAEC, March 2004



                                              - 28 -

 "Literacy Skills for the World of Tomorrow  Further Results from PISA 2000", UNESCO
  Institute for Statistics, OECD

 "Albania's National Assessment and Evaluation Center: Progress, Change, Challenge and Needs",
  Final Report, MOES, Dr. R. Altman, October 25, 2004

 "First National Assessment of Student's Achievement for the Fourth Grade", MOES, NAEC,
  Tirana- 2003

 "Report on the Consultant Services to Establish the NAEC in Albania", MOES, June-July 2002

 "Final School Project Rehabilitation Report", ILIRIDA SH.P.K, Tirana, May 2004

 "Report on a Visit to Albania to provide support to Establish a Textbook Approval Board for the
  MOES" , T. Horsler, May 2004

 "Final Report on School Textbook Provision", MOES, R. Boulton, October 2004

 "Annual Statistical Report 2002-2003", MOES, 2004

 "Strategy of Pre-University Education in Albania 2004 - 2015", MOES, 2004




                                            - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Ministry of Education and Science Comments on the Education
Reform Project

I. Introduction
This document is the completion report of "Education Reform" Project (No. 3343-ALB), prepared by the
Ministry of Education and Science. The project became effective as of July 2000, and was completed
October 31, 2004. (The initial completion date was July 31, 2004, which was later postponed to October
31, 2004.)

The report includes information on: (i) project goals and component design; (ii) project activities and an
evaluation of the performed activities; and (iii) the sustainability of the results, and learnt lessons from the
project which can be used in future projects.

Also, the Appendices give financial and procurement information.

II. Project Development Objective
The project development objective was to assist the MOES in planning and managing education services
and strengthening its accountability towards the stakeholders in this sector.

III. Project Components
The project has five components:
1. Policy Design, Management and Improvement of Education System;
2. Education Management Information System;
3. Assessment and Evaluation;
4. School Rehabilitation; and
5. Textbooks.

Component 1: Policy Design, Management and Improvement of Education System: This component
supports the institutional strengthening and the organizational reform. The component was managed by
MOES Council and funded the revised functions that are required by the Ministry to enhance the sector of
education: policy analysis, strategic planning and management, human resources management, and
implementation and monitoring of specific programs of education reform.

The main expected results of this component were: (a) the establishment of the MOES Council functioning
as priority-setting and policy-making body; (b) the establishment of a planning and policy analysis unit,
which supports MOES Council as a technical secretariat; (c) development of capacity and tools for
financial analysis; (d) completion of a reform plan for the education sector, based on specific criteria; (e)
completion of at least on model which meets the specified criteria; (f) development of an annual action plan
for the reform as the criteria; and (g) establishment of project implementation unit at the Ministry.

Component 2: Education Management Information System: This component is based on the
development of a database and institutional strengthening in this area. The component has been managed by
a department recently established at MOES (Information and Statistics Department). This component
would support an education management information system, which would link all the branches of the
ministry, including regional education departments and universities.

Main results of the component would be: (a) a simple MIS which could be easily expanded, and it would
include the collected data, application and users as well as the completed test at, at least, two pilot



                                                      - 30 -

educational offices of two regions, to be used by Ministry decision-makers on ongoing basis, and (b) the
publication of the statistical yearbook for education in Albania (the first report).

Component 3: Assessment and Evaluation: This component was managed by the National Center for
Assessment and Evaluation, under MOES and was expected to reach the objectives upon the completion of
the Education Reform Project. Main results include (a) the development and management of university
admission test, based on international standards, (b) management and evaluation of the result
fourth-graders' achievement in the subject of Albanian language, mathematics, and sciences, and the
publication of the results, and (c) preparation for the activities that would be completed under a project in
the future, including national test management for eighth and twelfth grades.

Component 4: School Rehabilitation: This component funds: (a) the development of building and design
guidelines and specification of bills of quantities for schools and furniture; and (b) the rehabilitation of
about 22,000 school places (about 44 schools). The selection of the schools was done based on the school
mapping data-base to ensure an equitable distribution. Project funds were allocated within districts
according to each district's rank-order.

The key outputs for this component are: (a) building and design guidelines and specification of bills of
quantities for schools and furniture developed; (b) 22,000 school places rehabilitated, using the new design
guidelines and specifications; (c) a transparent and rationalized model to allocate school rehabilitation
financing among districts applied; (d) private architectural firms or NGOs used for design and quality
assurance functions; and (e) communities participation in the rehabilitation of all schools and their grounds
in limited ways.

Component 5: Textbooks: This component is a policy reform and physical goods component and was
managed by the MOES. The component funds: (a) procuring textbooks, using international competitive
bidding to reduce the costs and increase the quality of the textbooks being purchased by the Government;
and (b) publishing textbooks for the new curricula in basic education as a trial for privatizing publishing.

The key outputs for this component were: (a) STPH and TDE brought to the point of sale; supported also
by appropriate technical assistance, (b) ensuring the transparent contracting procedures for textbooks
publication, (c) textbooks procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB); and (d) on the basis
of savings realized through ICB, revisiting the percent of total textbook costs paid by the Government
versus parents.

IV. PROJECT ACTIVITIES

IV.1. Policy development, education system management and improvement.

This component had three major directions: (i) policy development, (ii) restructuring of educational
institutions, and (iii) building of professional capacities.

Policy development:
1. Curricula Reform. (02/2003 -06/2004). Under the assistance of an international consultant, basic
concepts of a deeply reformed curriculum were elaborated, the action plan for the expected development of
the curriculum was prepared, and in cooperation with the Institute for Curricula and Standards, the
curriculum framework was developed.
2. EFA/FTI Draft. (05/2004). The MOES proposal for EFA was completed. The proposal states the



                                                      - 31 -

necessary reforms in the education system and the adequate financial resources to achieve, by 2015, a
qualitative 9-year education for all.
3. Education Strategy. (05/2004 ). The development of the Strategy for Pre-University Education was
completed, which was then approved by the Government in June 2004. This document outlines the
governance reform for teaching quality enhancement, education financial reform, and the ways for building
capacities and human resource development. The document includes an action plan for the implementation
of the Strategy, and cost estimation.
4. Public Expenditure Track Survey. (02/2004  10/2004). A Public Expenditure Track Survey was
performed for education expenditures in two stages: local government jurisdiction, and school under the
selected jurisdiction.
5. Education Decentralization, (08-09/2004). A Government Decentralization Policy Paper, has been
prepared and adopted. Also, a relevant piloting plan was developed and is under implementation.

Restructuring of education institutions:
1. MOES Restructuring. (10/2001  05/2003). A new administrative and functional structure for MOES
was prepared and adopted by the government. The structure comprises new units, such as the Minister's
Council, the Sector of Analysis and Planning, the Inspection Directorate, and the re-composition of
previous units, such as the Curriculum Directorate, Human Resources Directorate, etc.
2. Enhancement of the Pedagogical Studies Institute (PSI). (2002). PSI structure was assessed and
divided into two institutions: the Institute for Curricula and Standards, and the Center for Teacher
Training, which were approved by the Government in September 2003.
3. Establishment of education departments in regions and education offices in districts. (03/2004 
08/2004). MOES has deeply reorganized the district educational departments, transferring them to regional
education directorates, and sub regional education offices.

BUILDING OF PROFESSIONAL CAPACITIES

1. Performance standards (09/2004-10/2004). MOES has developed performance standards for all its
departments and directorates. Moreover, an action plan is developed aiming at a continuous performance
evaluation of these departments.
2. Capacity building for the staff of Teacher's Training Center. (09/2004-10/2004). A number of
seminars and workshops were organized, including also the representatives from the regional educational
offices.

IV-II. Component 2: Education Management Information System (EMIS):

In this component, the ERP funded support for continued development of a management information
system, that would ultimately link all branches of the Ministry, including district offices and universities.
Also, testing of the system with basic software applications, linking on a pilot basis in 2-3 District
Education Offices, and training of staff at both levels of government, were supported too.

The MOES established a new Department for Information and Statistics in January 2003.
With the support of a technical assistance a number of steps were undertaken, such as: build a simple
EMIS, design and develop a data collection system and database query system, provide user-friendly
software that can be used to ask analytic questions of databases and receive answers that fit their needs,
provision of turnkey legislative document management system (LDMS) for MOES.

The DIS produced its first Annual Report in May 2004. The report contained detailed and useful statistical



                                                      - 32 -

data and indicators.
Another effort by the MOES to share data with their stakeholders was the Public Contact Points located in
the Ministry in Tirana. Public Contact Points are kiosks containing electronic folders with information
about such items as tests data, rules and regulations, school calendars, and university admission
information.

However, the evaluation of this component (completed in April 2004), shows that there are concerns
between the declared strategic intentions of the MOES Departments as to the direction and sharing of
information and information systems between Departments, the Regional District Offices and the
Department of Information and Statistics (DIS). The system has not fully succeeded to manage, develop,
implement and sustain a single software application. The data base piloted by the EMIS systems (Map
Decision) was not sustained by MOES Departments, the Regional District Offices or the DIS personnel.

IV-III. Component 3: Assessment and Examinations:

1. Following the decision of Council of Ministers (25 October 2003), a National Assessment and
Evaluation Center was established. With technical assistance support, the Center has progressed in terms
of:
(A) developing clearly its mid-term strategy, including: (a) legal status of NAEC within legal framework in
Albania, (b) definition of role of NAEC, (c) internal organizational structure of NAEC, and (d) relationship
between NAEC and other educational bodies in Albania;
(B) Establishment of: (a) Public Report of the Grade 4 Albanian Sample (2002), (b) Technical Report on
Data Preparation and Multilevel Modeling Procedures for the Grade Four Albanian Sample Study (2002),
and Attachment 4: Report on Grade Four Testing. These were essentially draft documents applicable to the
4th grade learning assessment in May 2004.

The Education Reform Project has funded (a) improvement in the current examinations administered at
grades 8 and 12; (b) continued development and administration of high quality and fair entrance
examinations to university, and (c) carrying out a sample-based assessment for grade 4 in three subjects
that will provide baseline data for monitoring performance trends.

Overall, the activities completed under the component were as follows:
   Administration of grade 4 learning assessments in May 2002 and in May 2003;
   Administration of new 8th grade examination in June 2003 and for the second time in June 2004;
   Administration of new Matura (12th grade examination in June 2004);
   Planning and conduct of national conference on education assessment in July 2004.

IV-IV. Component 4: School Rehabilitation:

The activities supported under this component were: (a) the development of a national school mapping, (b)
building and design guidelines and specification of bills of quantities for schools and furniture; and (c) the
rehabilitation of about 22,000 school places (about 44 schools), including their furniture. The rehabilitation
works were supervised by a local company (Iliriada). However, in February 2004, the MOES terminated
the contract, based on their poor performance and appointed a civil engineer and an architect among
Ministry staff to persuade the implementation of the rehabilitation schools process. A detailed procedure
for completion and handover of the rehabilitation works was developed and followed. At the completion, a
"certificate of hand over" was prepared and was signed by: MOES, PIU, District Education Department,
School Director and Contractor.




                                                    - 33 -

IV-V. Component 5: Textbooks:

This component funded: (a) procurement of textbooks, using international competitive bidding to reduce the
costs and increase the quality of the textbooks being purchased by the Government; and (b) publishing
textbooks under the new curricula for basic education. Furthermore, the MOES, as agreed since the project
effectiveness, achieved bringing the STPH (Textbook Distribution enterprise) to the point of sale (April
2004) and also completed the sale procedures for the Textbooks Publishing Company (by August 2004).
Among key project outputs, it has to be noted the establishment of the "textbook publication Unit" in
MOES. The Unit is responsible for the textbooks policy at national level, including publishing, printing and
distribution of textbooks. Also, the Unit leads all the competitive procedures related to new curricula
introduction.

V. MOES standing on the project

Achievements
The World Bank Project is considered to be successful by all measures, unparallel to other donor-funded
projects. By contrast, its success cannot even be matched by the previous World Bank Project, which, by
comparison, falls short of the size and success achieved with the current project.

Admittedly, a huge number of both local and international experts were ideally involved with this project. A
significant role was played by the education team attached to the World Bank Mission in the successful
completion of the project.

The project drew to an end within the set deadlines. In the first two years, the project got off to a bad start,
with the real developments not becoming effective until 2002 and in the years 2003-2004, a time period
that speeded up the attainment of the set targets.

1. Policy Development, Management and Improvement of the Educational system
Among the main outputs of component 1, carried out in this project, which were conceived and designed in
the special initiatives context, we could list the following:
   Development of "National Strategy of Pre-university Education 2004-2015";
   Decentralization of functions, responsibilities and accountability in the education system;
   Draft proposal regarding participation in EFA/FTI;
   Structural arrangements within MOES;
   Establishment of Curricula and Standards Institute;
   Establishment of Training and Qualification Center;
   Establishment of National Educational Center for Evaluations and Examinations;
   Structuring and organizing the Regional Educational Authorities and the Educational Offices;
   Reforming the education inspectorates.

Under the assistance of World Bank the " National Strategy of Pre-university Education 2004-2015" was
conceived and developed accordingly, a strategy which outlines an important generalization of the
orientations and steps to be taken towards developments of pre-university education in the 10 next years.
l Upon approval of Decision by Council of Ministers no. 538, dated 12.08.2004, this document becomes
    a work agenda awaiting implementation. It perpetuates the governance reform in boosting quality of
    teaching-learning process, the financial reform in education, and the means of building capacities and
    human resources. The document also contains an implementation plan of the strategy as well as the
    incurring costs.
l The Decentralization Policy Paper was developed in conjunction with the Decentralization Policy Pilot



                                                       - 34 -

   Project of the education services in Municipalities and Districts across the country. In this document
   the joint responsibilities and competences were split equally among the Local and Central governments
   in the field of pre-university education, aiming at transferring/devolving decision-making closer to the
   services, increasing quality of school as well as transferring responsibilities and authority in
   decision-making for the management and financing of pre-university education;. In the framework of
   decentralizing functions in pre-university education, in anticipation of 2005, the funds earmarked for
   investments in pre-university education have been devolved to the local government entities, in districts
   and center district municipalities.
l With the assistance of consultants at the World Bank, the application template/formats in EFA/FTI for
   MOES were developed. This proposal sets out the necessary reforms to be taken in the educational
   system, as well as the financial resources badly needed in order to attain a quality 9-year Education for
   All by 2015. The proposal relies heavily on an overall analysis/scrutiny of the conditions in achieving
   the 2015 target as well as in estimating the costs on the basis of a very sophisticated financial model.
l Establishing the Advisory Board next to the Ministry of Education and Science, which include
   representatives coming from the academic circles, education unions etc. This advisory board discusses
   and analyses the strategies and priorities in education at all times supported by the Policy Development
   Sector at MOES, which by assuming the attributes of a technical secretariat helps in developing the
   necessary policies, planning and financial analysis.
l Organizational structuring of MOES allowing for new structures within MOES to be established such
   as the Inspectorate Department, the Curriculum Development Department, the Department of
   Information and Statistics, which were lacking previously at MOES, the Policy Development Unit, and
   the Textbook Publication Unit.
l Establishing new structures outside of MOES, such as National Educational Center of Evaluation and
   Examinations, the Institute of Curriculum and Standards as well as the Teacher-Training Center:
a. Institute of Curricula and Standards in Education (ICS), as an institution specialized in developing
   curriculum and setting standards;
b. Center of Training and Qualification in Education, as a management institution on training and
   qualifying the education system employees. Thanks to the efforts of ICS the curriculum framework for
   compulsory education was developed. This framework takes into account the fulfillment of present-day
   demands by taking a significant step towards meeting the NSPU target concerning improvement of
   quality of teaching/learning process.
c. The new reorganization of educational administration in regional structures, with the setting-up of 13
   Regional Educational Departments, in which each department comprises the investment sector, the
   human resources sector, the teacher training and qualification for teachers, the inspection sector as well
   as the establishment of 24 educational offices, which are directly linked to Regional Educational
   Departments.
d. Establishing the Competition System in the context of decentralizing the education system. At one point
   in time the Heads of RED and EO, were appointed from the leading official of the Central Office,
   whereas of now in due consideration of the Law on civil servants model and the relevant Decision of
   CM , the appointments of Heads of educational authorities are based on the competition pattern;
e. Development and implementation of performance standards for each department at MOES. This
   process was initiated with the reforming of content within the educational system as well as with this
   project. At present, work is continuing in establishing performance standards at the central level and
   extending it to other levels, to all the positions/jobs within the system;
f. Restructuring and establishing the Inspection Service at the entire pre-university education system by
   establishing the inspection sectors across 13 REDs and by making possible the organization of
   inspection at two levels: central and local ones. This service comes complete with Regulations and
   Inspection manuals.




                                                      - 35 -

Most of the initiated reforms are still into their beginning stage, but sustaining long-term implementation of
these reforms would require an on-going support, by some bigger measure, in building and improving the
existing capacities, as well as in terms of training and qualifying human resources, which are detrimental in
endorsing and taking this reform forward.

2. Information System for Education Management
This component did achieve a few goals, but it's worth pointing out that the objectives outlined within this
project were not properly formulated in the initial stage of the project design, that's one strong reason that
accounts for failure in falling short of expected results.

Among the most significant achievements regarding this component we could list:
   Internal network (grid) set up which allows for a quick exchange of information via the internet. The
    provision of internet hookup and email is up and running. The electronic communication and exchange
    of information between MOES and RED and EO has been successfully realized. This is the chart that
    shows the way how information flows between the concerned institutions
   Contact point established within MOES. This contact point consists of booth PCs which boast folders
    containing electronic information with data on testing, regulations, school-year calendars, information
    on admission to universities etc.
   First statistical education report released in 2003. On the basis of the previously gained experience, and
    in view of the wider vision for education sector, MOES has already developed and is ready to publish
    the Yearly Statistical Report for 2004.

But, the lack of a central database has hindered the realization of projection-based analysis and the
coordination of activities and decision-making among the different Departments within MOES and other
dependent institutions. At present, work has been successful in developing software that facilitates the
collecting, processing and communicating of the data output. In spite of their presence, it remains to be
seen how we can put to better use the advantages of these software. Easy reference can be drawn to Map
Decision which was originally thought as a tool in support of planning, projecting, monitoring, evaluating,
and disseminating the resources and the decision-making. Thus, one of the key elements in getting the
expected results is to make the best use of this program at the central and regional level and any other
program that has been made available.

3. Evaluation and testing (exams)
In the context of this component it was possible for the examination system to be placed beyond the reach
of MOES competences, and be run and organized by a specialized Center under the name National
Education Center for Evaluation and Exams. This center has carried out the following:
   The first ever national evaluation on the achievements of the primary 4th graders in subjects such as
    Mathematics, Albanian Language and Literature. These results were made public at a National
    Conference held in May 2004. These results made their way to the public through the publication of the
    respective report. The survey "The National Evaluation of the Achievement of the 4th graders, in
    subjects such as mathematics, Albanian language and literature" is the first study of its kind ever to be
    conducted by the NECEE, according to the international best standards and a sample based evaluation.
    (This was technically and financially supported by a WB project. (Reform in education".
   The first national school-leaving examination for 8th graders, by introducing for the first time elements
    of the external examination as well as standardized procedures (June 2004).
   The admission competition to secondary vocational schools (September 2004).
   Developing orientation programs on the national school-leaving and maturity examination for
    2003-2004.
   The maturity examination for the general secondary and profile-based school.


                                                      - 36 -

NECEE is making efforts toward taking part in the earliest international evaluations, such as in TIMSS
2007, an international program on achievements of pupils in mathematics and science, with the view to
combining the national evaluations with the international practices.

4. School rehabilitation
The 4th component was concerned with rehabilitating 44 schools in all. In this framework, it provided some
22.000 school places. A detailed School Map at national level was compiled also. The real value behind
this component lies not only in the physical rehabilitation of the school buildings, but also in the
development and utilization of rehabilitation and refurbishment standards. MOES is currently applying
such standards to the on-going rehabilitation of schools with state funds as well as money coming from
various donors.

Moreover, there has been an increase in the awareness level on the part of the parent community, who now
looks at the investments in schools as part of the formal education of their children. It has been possible to
ensure a direct participation of the community in the realization of this project as well as a close
cooperation between schools and community in better maintaining and safeguarding the investments made
so far.

But the funds made available from the project were sufficient only in ensuring the basic equipment for the
44 schools already rehabilitated. As a consequence, the special equipment for Albanian language,
laboratories and other teaching equipments are still necessary in order to carry out a proper and smooth
teaching/learning process.

5. School textbooks
Privatization of Publishing Houses and of Distribution Enterprise of School Textbooks, constituting the 5th
component of the project, put forward the need for immediate measures to be taken in terms of school
publication management. The establishment of textbook management unit within MOES, at the urgent
suggestion by the international experts, set up the right conditions for the implementation of European
policies and standards with respect to liberalization of school publications. The new policy followed by
MOES in terms of school textbooks was intended to massively favor the compulsory education pupils,
especially the children in need.

In so doing, MOES was intent on guaranteeing the best quality textbooks. Proceeding from the experience
gained from the printing of textbooks in 2003 with the funds allotted by World Bank, it was possible to
decrease the printing costs of any school textbook by around 50% comparing it with the cost of the
previous years. With the savings accrued from the reduction in costs it was possible for MOES to
implement a policy that was supportive of disseminating the school-textbooks. In close follow-up of this
new policy, initiated and supported by component 1 and 5 of this project, the following were carried out:
   Developing programs and new textbooks for the first graders in compulsory education;
   First time selection on the basis of competition of textbooks that are currently in use for the school year
    2004-2005, based on the relevant teaching plan and the subject programs for grade 1 of the compulsory
    9-year education and a textbook title for grade 10.
   A free competition of several alternative textbooks designed by a number of publishers for the second
    year of general secondary schools.
   Printing all the new textbooks for the first grade. Reprinting all the textbooks for the second and six
    year. With this school year in mind, some 123 textbooks titles have been prepared in total.
   Developing teaching programs for subjects of 2 and 6 grade ( 9-year education) as well as announcing
    the competition for their publication;


                                                     - 37 -

   Providing free textbooks for the second year in a row for the compulsory education as well as
    providing free text-books to all first graders without having to ask them to check in their books for the
    2004-2005 periods.
   Providing free textbooks to all pupils of general secondary education who live in 80 poverty-riddled
    communes, by helping increase the enrollment rates in these communes.

In the context of liberalizing the school textbooks, publishing houses, upon receiving the right to publish the
school textbook, request the right to printing and disseminating such texts without having to set any ceiling
price. Such a thing was strongly suggested by the WB consultant on textbook policies, that is, liberalization
of the school textbooks policies should apply equally to both printing and dissemination. We have to
emphasize that the policies on printing and disseminating textbooks will continue to be under the care and
responsibility of MOES, with the view to ensuring the provision of such textbooks on time, with the highest
possible quality and a reasonably affordable price for the pupils. It's precisely through these textbook
policies that MOES has managed to improve substantially the vital education of the population. Thus
during the 2002 school year, only 60% of pupils that completed the compulsory education were drawn in
to secondary education, while in 2004, by contrast, this figure shot up at 77%.

Ministry approach towards lack of project achievements, in the following areas:

   Lack of adequate responsibility and accountability on the part of MOES especially in the first two
    years.
   The interested parties (stakeholders) were not fully acquainted with the general objectives of the
    project. They possessed information that was rather limited to the area they were responsible for.
   The degree of information on the part of structures responsible to MOES was increasingly insufficient.
    There was a failure to make public the results achieved in every step of the way.
   Since the project, at its core, was accompanied with other structural changes of MOES, with new
    openings and some old structures disappearing for good, some employees did not take as effective a
    part as they should in its implementation phase.
   Since the curriculum reform was wide-ranging and the likely changes in the political staff could risk
    hampering its implementation, there was acceleration in the implementation pace of the project, but
    always intent on establishing a sustainable reform.
   Since the implementation of the project was rather stretched out in the span of the last two years, we
    can not claim that its results are far immediate. What we can safely state, is that the groundwork has
    been laid for future results to be grown.
   The consultants' reports were not consistently followed up with "objection" feedback from MOES. At
    times these reports were oversized and beyond comprehension, as was the case with the report prepared
    by the consultant of the school textbooks.
   We have not yet determined the performance indicators at MOES in order to measure up or gauge the
    achievements and success to be expected in various fields.
   The government was not generous in its financial support (state budget) in helping the reform
    undertaken within this project.

VII. LESSONS LEARNT TO BE DULY CONSIDERED IN THE FUTURE PROJECTS

Developing a new project

   The conceiving stage of the project was rather complex and mixed: Therefore, issues have come up
    during its implementation, mainly related to legal, political, organizational, and management areas in
    component 1 as well as concrete matters technically oriented into component 2-5.


                                                     - 38 -

 In view of the reform initiatives taken by the government, the endless and consistent efforts in the
  education sector ( such as EFA/FTI) as well as the outcomes in the implementation of the component,
  MOES will keep focusing on organizational and legal reforms and other initiatives to follow. In
  addition, there is a need for efforts to be made in terms of technical orientation in the curriculum
  development, teacher training and the preparation of school textbooks and other teaching materials,
  publishing, printing and distributing textbooks. Furthermore, the attempts will continue in
  rehabilitating schools and participating in national and international evaluations. These could well be
  considered as top priorities to be considered and supported in the future.

  Component                                     Report Title                                       Date
  Component 1           Translation of IPS Education Strategy Document (Irena             January, 2001
                        Pata)
  Component 1           Management and Implementation of Education System                 May, 2003
                        (IBF) (Note 1)
   Component 1          A Review of the Institute for Pedagogical Studies (IPS)           December 2002
                        (Cameron Harrison)
   Component 1          EFA/FTI-Albania (Claude Tibi, Argon Kasapi) (Note 5)              June 2003
   Component 1          Curriculum Development and Implementation Component               February 2004
                        (Alexandru Crisan--International Consultant)
   Component 1          Curriculum Development and Implementation Component               September 2003
                        (Teuta Braco--Local Consultant)
   Component 1          Performance Review (Andy Mc'Donald, Raymond                       May 2003
                        D'Aoust, Cameron Harrison) (Note 3)
   Component 1          National Education Strategy (Hitendra Pillay)                     July 2004
   Component 1          National Education Strategy: Implementation Plan                  October 2004
                        (Hitendra Pillay)
   Component 1          Monitoring and Evaluation Study (American Councils for            October 2004
                        International Education)
   Component 1          Decentralization of the Education Sector in Albania               May 2004
                        (Samuel Benalal)
   Component 1          Pilot Plan for Decentralization of the Education System in        September 2004
                        Albania (Samuel Benalal)
   Component 1          Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) (Claude Tibi)           October 2004
   Component 1          PETS Survey --Data(Public and Private Finance Institute)          September 2004
   Component 1          Performance Standards of the Ministry of Education and            October 2004
                        Evaluation Plan (Marmanet and Telos Group)
   Component 1          Technical Assistance to Develop and Strengthen Teacher            October 2004
                        Training Agency (Frank Schorn)


   Component 2          Decision Software Evaluation (Betim Cico)                         April, 2000
   Component 2          Internet Webpage of MOES (INTECH)                                 December, 2001
   Component 2          Center for Information and Statistics (CIS) Staff Evaluation      June, 2001
                        (Nadem Muhamad)
   Component 2          Terms of Reference (TOR) for Four Administrative                  August, 2001
                        Modules (Ilir Beqja--Local Consultant)
   Component 2          TOR for Four Administrative Modules (Kamal                        August, 2001



                                                   - 39 -

                       Siblini--International Consultant)
    Component 2        Development and Implementation of EMIS Pilot (EMI            September 2002
                       Systems)
    Component 2        Consulting Services: Development and Implementation of       April 2003
                       EMIS Systems (DATECH)
    Component 2        Assessment of the Implementation of the EMIS Component       April 2004
                       (Raymond D'Aoust, Edmond Sheshi) (Note 4)


    Component 3        Technical Assistance (TA) to National Assessment and         April, 2001
                       Examination Center (NAEC) (Nikoleta (Litoiu)
    Component 3        TA for Establishing NAEC (Nikoleta Mita)                     September, 2001
    Component 3        Learning Assessment and Examinations (IDP) (Note 2)          November 2003
    Component 3        Advisor/Mentor to the NAEC (Robert Altman)                   October 2004


    Component 4        Architectural/Engineering Services to Elaborate Building     April, 2002
                       Material Specifications and School Furniture Specifications
                       (iC Consulenten)
    Component 4        Final School Project Rehabilitation Report (ILIRIADA)        May 2004
                       (Note 6)


    Component 5        Assessing Financial Documents for State Textbook             October, 2000
                       Publishing House (STPH) and Textbook Distribution
                       Enterprise (TDE) (Lindita Xhillari)
    Component 5        Assessing Legal Documents for STPH and TDE (Gent             October, 2000
                       Ibrahimi)
    Component 5        Support to Establish a Textbook Approval Board (Tim          May 2004
                       Horsler)



International Training Completed

   Component             Dates           Number of            Location         Topic/Content
                                         Participants
Component 1         2000              7                   USA                 Strategic Choices
                                                                              for Education
                                                                              Reform
Component 1       2000                1                   USA                 Managing
                                                                              Development
                                                                              Projects
Component 1       2000                2                   Bosnia and          Procurement
                                                          Herzegovina         Seminar for
                                                                              Implementing
                                                                              Agency Staff
Component 1       2001                3                   USA                 Strategic Choices
                                                                              for Education
                                                                              Reform



                                                - 40 -

Component 1  2001    2           Italy          Financial
                                                Management and
                                                Disbursement in
                                                World Bank
                                                Financed Projects

Component 1  2002    2           USA            International
                                                Procurement
Component 1  2002    4           Hungary        Strategic Choices
                                                for Education
                                                Reform
Component 1  2002    4           Greece         Education
                                                Investment
                                                Conference
Component 1  2003    5           United Kingdom Study Visit of the
                                                Albanian
                                                Minister of
                                                Education and
                                                Science and
                                                Other Officials
                                                (Education
                                                Management and
                                                Education
                                                Standards in
                                                England)
Component 1  2004    2           France         Monitoring and
                                                Evaluating the
                                                Quality of
                                                Education
Component 1  2004    1           USA            Education
                                                Reform Core
                                                Course
Component 1  2004    1           France         Education
                                                Budgets
Component 1  2004    6           Romania        International
                                                Conference for
                                                Education


Component 2  2001    2           Lithuania      Workshop on
                                                Education
                                                Statistics and
                                                Indicators
Component 2  2003    1           Luxembourg     Systems of
                                                Education
                                                Statistics


Component 3  2001    2           Romania        NAES



                          - 41 -

                                                                    Conference on
                                                                    Learning
                                                                    Assessment
Component 3      2003             1                  USA +United    Multilevel
                                                     Kingdom        Analysis,
                                                                    Hierarchical
                                                                    Linear Modeling,
                                                                    Multivariate
                                                                    Analysis, Scale
                                                                    Analysis
Component 3      2004             7                  Netherlands    Item Writing
                                                                    Test Preparation
                                                                    and Interpretation
                                                                    of Statistics for
                                                                    Assessments and
                                                                    Examinations


Component 5      2000             3                  Hungary        Textbook
                                                                    Training
                                                                    Workshop
Component 5      2000             7                  Poland         Training in WsiP
                                                                    Publishing House
                                                                    in Warsaw



In-Country Training Workshops and Seminars Completed

   Component           Dates             Topic/Content                Participants
                                                                   Number Category
 Component 1      December         Education Finance and      10 MOES, Directorates of
                  11-16, 2002      Budgeting                  Economy and Investment
 Component 1      Not reported     Development of Policy      14 MOES main organizational
                                   Document                   units
 Component 1      Not reported     Development of             10 MOES main organizational
                                   Education Sector           units
                                   Strategy
 Component 1      Not reported     Development of Annual      25 MOES main organizational
                                   Education Performance      unit
                                   Report
 Component 1      Not reported     Educational Planning and   15 MOES main organizational
                                   Financing, Operational     unit
                                   Planning and Budget
                                   Preparation
 Component 1      Not reported     Pre-Service and            12 MOES main organizational
                                   In-Service Teacher         unit
                                   Systems
 Component 1      Not reported     Education Policy and       15 MOES main organizational



                                            - 42 -

                             In-Service Training       units
                             Reforms
Component 1  April 08, 2003  Organizing Working        25 IPS
                             Groups for Curriculum
                             Design
Component 1  April 10-11,    Conceptual Working        25 IPS
             2003            Groups and Curriculum
                             Framework
Component 1  April 17, 2003  Curriculum Development    25 IPS
                             and Curriculum
                             Framework
Component 1  April 17, 2003  Curriculum Management     10 MOES
                             Process
Component 1  July 03, 2003   Institutional Structures  25 IPS
                             for Curriculum
                             Development
Component 1  July 04, 2003   Development of Plani      10 MOES
                             Mesimor
Component 1  September 7,    In-service Training       12 IPS (teacher training
             2004            Planning Seminar:         personnel)
                             Topics: a) capacity
                             building, b) planning
                             seminars, and c)training
                             of trainer programs
Component 1  October 19-24,  Active and Interactive    110 totalDistrict and local
             2004            Teaching/Learning         education office inspectors and
                             Methodologies             staff
                             (Four (4) one-day
                             workshops in Shkodra,
                             Tiana, Elbasan, Fier)
Component 1  Week of         Seminar: Evaluating       12 IPS (teacher training
             October 25,     In-Service Programs and   personnel)
             2004            Developing National
                             In-Service Plan
Component 1  September 13,   PETS Seminar              25 MOES , MOF , Districts
             2004
Component 1  September       Performance Standards     14 MOES organizational unit
             22-23, 2004                               directors and representatives
                                                       from Training Institute for Civil
                                                       Service
Component 2  First round     Two round of training in  First round: 19
             training May    the framework of
             2002            contract for consulting   Second round: 35 Workshops
                             services : Development    for information specialists in
                             and Implementation of     MOES, CIS specialists and
                             EMIS Modules (i) Data     district staff
             Second round    Collecting System , (ii)



                                       - 43 -

             training        The Database Querying
             September-Octo  System , (iii) The
             ber 2002        Analytical and
                             Policy/Decision Support
                             System.
Component 2  July, 2003      Training for Four         20 user personnel and 2 staff for
                             General Administrative    each systemUser personnel
                             Modules:                  (MOES and district), MOES
                             Legislation Document      staff
                             Management System
                             (LDMS)
                             Document Management
                             System (DMS)
                             Accounting Management
                             System (AMS)
                             Payroll Management
                             System (PMS)


Component 3  April 09, 2001  Seminar for National      Not reported NAEC
                             Assessment Education
                             Center
Component 3  June 2002       Writing Multiple Choice  Not reported NAEC
                             Items for University
                             Entrance Examination
Component 3  June 2002       Use of Rasch Modeling     1 NAEC
                             for Test Analysis
Component 3  May 21, 2003    National Conference of    80 NAEC
                             NAEC: Dissemination
                             the first results of
                             National Assessment for
                             fourth grade of
                             elementary school
Component 3  July 09, 2004   National Conference       80 NAEC
                             "New system of the
                             National Assessments
                             and Examinations, to
                             ensure quality of
                             education in Albanian
                             Education System


Component 5  October, 2000   Textbook Conference;      37 MOES / Publishers
                             Liberalization
Component 5  May 13-14,      Subject Specialist Panels 15 Subject Specialist Panels
             2004            for Textbook Manuscript   (Teachers)
                             Evaluation




                                        - 44 -

- 45 -

