RESTRICTED
FiLe       BVE     YI                  Report No. P-464
~~~~IL
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its afflliated organizations.
They do'not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
December 16, 1965



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A
PROPOSED LOAN FROM THE BANK TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on
a proposed loan from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to $31 million to the Republic of the Sudan to finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of a program for the expansion and improvement of
the facilities of the Sudan Railways. The Railways are state-owned and
operated under the direction of the Ministry of Communications.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1958 the Bank made a loan of $39 million equivalent to
finance part of the Railways capital investment program for the period
July 1958 - June 1960. This loan, now fully disbursed, helped to finance
the extension of the Railways' services to the west and south of the
country and the modernization of its capital equipment. But a number of
organizational and operating problems remained. In 1962 the Bank com-
missioned SOFRERAIL of Paris, France, to study the operations and future
prospects of the Railways. The Government and the Railways have taken
full advantage of the recommendations of that mission. The Railways'
capital investment program for July 1961 - June 1964 was financed with
the assistance of a loan of $19.6 million equivalent from the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development. Early in 1964 the Government re-
quested Bank assistance in the financing of the Railways' current Seven-
Year Capital Development Program which is an integral part of the Govern-
ment's Ten-Year Plan for Social and Economic Development. Following a
Bank appraisal in M4ay 1964, the Bank opened negotiations in September
1964 for a loan for the first three years of the Program.
3.        Formal negotiations were concluded in Wlashington on October 5,
1964. The Borrower was represented by His Excellency Abdel Rahim Mirghani,
Under-Secretary for Economic Planning, Ministry of Finance and Economics
and Mr. Ali Rida, General Manager, Sudan Railways. The sudden overthrow
of the Government in the latter part of October 1964 and the change of
the Constitution of the Republic of the Sudan meant that for the time
being the loan could not be put forward. After a period of transition
a new government was formed in the summer of 1965, based on the outcome
of elections held in the northern provinces of the country. The Transi-
tional Constitution which has been adopted provides for an adequate legal
basis for signature and ratification by the Sudan of the proposed Loan
Agreement. The new government has now been in power for six months and
the present situation in the Sudan is sufficiently settled to justify
the expectation that the proposed project will be adequately carried out.



- 2 -
4.        The proposed loan would be the fourth loan to the Sudan and
would increase the total amount of Bank loans to the Sudan to $105 million.
Besides the Bank loans, Sudan has received from the Association a credit
of $13 million for the Roseires Irrigation Project. The status, as of
November 30, 1965, of the loans and credit already made is as fo'lows-
Amount (US$ million)
Year Borrower  Purpose              Bank loans IDA credit    Undisbursed
1958  Sudan    Sudan Railways         39.0
1960  Sudan    Managil Irrigation     1565                        -
1961  Sudan    Roseires Irrigation    19.5        13.0           12.5
Total                           74.0
of which has been repaid       7.3
Total now outstanding           66.7
Amount sold                4.1
of which has been repaid 300   1.1
Total now held                  65.6       13.0
Total undisbursed               8.1        4.4
5.        At present two Bank missions are in the Sudan, one to appraise
an electric power project and the other to appraise a land clearance and
mechanized agriculture project in the Gedaref and Nuba iMountains areas.
The Government has submitted to Bank/IDA an irrigation project (Rahad)
which would be a part of P.hase II of the Roseires Irrigation Project
currently being financed by Bank/IDA jointly with the Federal Republic
of Germany and has also asked the Association for assistance in the
preparation and financing of an education project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                 The Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:              Sudan Railways
Loan Amount:              Equivalent in various currencies to
$3l million
Purpose:                  To finance the foreign exchange cost
of diesel locomotives, rolling stock,
rails and accessories, river and har-
bor craft, cranes, cargo handling
equipment, machinery and construction
materials.



-3 -
Amortization:              In 41 semi-annual payments beginning
August 15, 1970 and ending August 15,
1990.
Interest Rate:             5M; per annum
Commitment Charge:         3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-443c) is attached (No.1).
8.        The Railways, which are now part of the Ministry of Communci-
cations, operate all of the rail, river and port services in the Sudan.
The Railways' capital development program, as revised in April 1964, is
projected to June 1971. Its total estimated cost is $56 million, of which
$38 million would be in foreign exchange. Almost 90% of the presently
planned investment would occur between July 1965 and June 1968, which is
the basis for the proposed project. Conditional on the availability of
funds, further major works, especially extension of the lines further to
the south and to the west, are under consideration for inclusion in the
later years of the program. The program is technically and financially
sound and standards of maintenance and operating efficiency have sub-
stantially improved since the time the first loan was made.
9.        The present project consists of further dieselization on the
main lines, replacement of obsolete steam shunting locomotives by diesel
shunters and modest expansion of the rolling stock and modernization of
existing rolling stock. In addition, the Khartoum-Port Sudan line will
be relaid with 90-lb rail, allowing higher operating speeds and hence
greater traffic density and the more efficient use of rolling stock. To
improve the operations in Port Sudan harbor, the procurement of cranes
and light cargo handling equipment is necessary and to take care of peak
shipping traffic, additional tugs, barges and pontoons are required.
10.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $47 million, of
which $32 million would consist of imported goods and equipment. The
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would cover all but $1 million of
these imports and would be equivalent to 66% of the total cost of the
project. While the Railways have accummulated substantial credit
balances in their accounts with the Government, the execution of the
project would create a drain on the foreign exchange resources of the
economy and justify the provision of foreign exchange from a Bank loan.
The proceeds of the loan will constitute a debt of the Railways to the
Government and will make it possible to reduce the capital investment
of the Government in the Railways. The capital structure of the Rail-
ways will nevertheless still remain conservative, the ratio of debt to
equity being 1:2 by 1967 when the project is completed.
11.        The Railways will finance out of their own resources the local
expenditures and the $1 million in foreign expenditures not covered by
the Bank loan. These foreign expenditures cover a great number of small
items as well as the completion of two berths in Port Sudan on which work
is already far advanced.



- 4 -
12.       The Gov6rnment intends to reorganize the Railways as a body
corporate to perform the railway functions now being carried out within
the Ministry of Communications. A Bill to this effect has been
prepared and is now under consideration by the appropriate Government
authorities. At the present time the Railways' accounts do not
adequately distinguish between current and capital transactions in
the Railways' financial relations with the Government. As a step towards
complete autonomy for the Railways the accounting system will be modified
with effect from July 1, 1966, so as to reflect more accurately the
Government's permanent investment in the Railways on the one hand, and
the Railways' current cash position on the other. At the same time the
interest rate paid by the Railways on the Government investment will
be increased from L4% to 6-1/2% per annum, which is more in line with
the cost of capital in the Sudan.
13.       The Railways have operated consistently at a profit after
making adequate allowances for depreciation and are expected to continue
to do so in the future. Poor cotton crops in the last two years,
reflected after a time lag in a reduced demand for imports and hence
in the t'.a2fic offered the Railways, indicates that the operating ratio
in 1966/67 will deteriorate to 86 from an average of 69 in thne last
five years. After 1966/67, however, the ratio is estimated to improve
to 76 by 1970/71.
114.      The Railways intend to procure all major items of equipment
and supplies on the basis of international competitive bidding as set
forth in the "Guidelines relating to Procurement under WArorld Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" issued June 5, 1964.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1ENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Sudan
and the Bank is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
It is substantially in the same form as was used for the first loan for
the Sudan Railways.
16.       The Loan Agreement will be subject to ratification by
Sudan's Constituent Assembly.
17.       The Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank is also being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.        A "Memorandum on the Economic Situation in the Sudan",
(AF-4Oa),of November 29, 1965, has been circulated separately. The
memorandum concludes that the basic economic position remains sound
despite the deterioration in Sudan's international financial position
in the last two years and the current tight financial position.
19.        Sudan is in the fifth year of its Ten-Year Economic Develop-
ment Plan (1961/62-1970/71) which provides for an increase of GDP and
per capita income by average annual rates of 5.2% and 2.25%, respectively.
In the first three years of the Plan (1961/62-1963/64) total gross in-
vestment amounted to £S 200 million, slightly more than the £S 193 million
invested in the six years preceding the Plan and about 25% more than the
Plan projections. The increase in development expenditures occurred in
the public sectcr and this was primarily due to the unavoidable simul-
taneous execution of a few large agricultural projects and high railway
investments. However, coincidental with the upsurge of investment, the
Sudan experienced in recent years some poor and below average cotton
crops; an unexpected rise in the world price of sugar in 1963 caused a
serious loss of revenue and, finally, the inflow of foreign assistance
remained substantially below that required by the Plan. As a result
the Sudan encountered internal and external financial difficulties,
causing a loss of £S 30 million in foreign assets, which stood at £S 21
million by the end of June 1965, equal to less than three months of im-
ports. To remedy this situation the Government in 1964 took a number of
steps, the most important of which were economy in current expenditures,
curtailment of capital expenditure in 1964/65 by about 40%, increasing
tax rates and introduction of new taxes and restrictive credit policies.
The success of this program was unfortunately impaired by a very poor
cotton crop in 1961.
20.        Since 1964 the cotton situation has improved somewhat, but
sales remain slow. However, imports continue at a low level and as a
result reserves increased in the second half of 1965 to £S 26 million
at the end of October. The immediate prospects both for the foreign
exchange position and for the Treasury depend to a large extent on the
size of - and prices for - the 1965/66 cotton crop; harvesting will not
start until January 1966 and it is therefore too early to make a fore-
cast. Preliminary and incomplete information indicates that the 1965/66
budget will show a sizeable deficit. If that is the case, a further
deterioration in the balance of payments is likely. Both the internal
and external financial position of the Sudan require close attention.
The Bank proposes to make a thorough study of the whole economic situa-
tion within the next few months, when the budgetary position will be
clear and the Government will have substantially completed its revision
of the balance of the Ten-Year Plan, on which wDrk is now proceeding.



- 6 -
21.     The predominance of agriculture in Sudan's economy and the large
fluctuations in the yield and price of agricultural commodities, especially
cotton, preclude the possibility of assessing the contribution of invest-
ment to the increase of gross domestic product in a short period of time.
However, in spite of two poor cotton crops in the last five years the
growth of GDP averaged 4.8% per year as compared to 4.40% in the five years
ending 1960/61. In this period the area under cotton increased by 20%o
and under oilseeds doubled. Industrial output grew by 15% and electric
power by 20% a year. The underlying strength of the economy will be
reinforced over the next few years as a number of major projects in agri-
culture, transport and power having direct impact on production and
exports come to fruition. Assuming that political difficulties will not
prove more disturbing than in the past, it would be reasonable to look
for a satisfactory growth in the future.
22.     Sudan financed about 80% of its investments in recent years
from its own savings and reserves. External public debt at the end of
1965 totalled US$ 180 million equivalent (us$ 45 million undisbursed),
servicing of which requires 7% of present exports. Servicing will be
heaviest in 1969, amounting to US$ 17.2 million. The proposed loan
would increase the amount required for debt servicing by US$ 1.27 mil-
lion per year from 1970 onwards. While the Sudan continues to have
some margin for further borrowing on conventional terms, servicing of
the public debt at the end of the Plan period would be more than 10%,
and by 1975 over 15p, of expected exports if all external aid were
available only on hard terms. It would seem appropriate, therefore,
that part of the foreign assistance should be made available on soft
terms, especially when the Sudan's impressive investment record, its
sound financial policy and its low per capita income are taken into
consideration.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
24.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 7 -
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to The Republic of The Sudan (Second
Railways Project) in the amount of US$ 31,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a 'Loan to The Republic
of The Sudan in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-oue million United States
dollars (US$ 31,000,000) to mature on and prior
to August 15, 1990, to bear interest at the rate
of five and one-half per cent (519w) per annum
and to be upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Loan Agreement (Second Railways Project) be-
tween The Republic of The Sudan and the Bank,
which has been presented to this meeting.
Attachment                                      George D. Woods
Pre3ident
Washington, D.C.
December 16, 1965



