Eco
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2497-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A., AND FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND FERTILIZAER PROJECT
March 27, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$ 12.50 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and the Mexican peso has been
floating since then. Since mid-1977, the rate of exchange has fluctuated
around Mex$ 22.60 to the US Dollar. On March 1, 1979, the peso traded at
22.75 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BANRURAL  =    Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (the National
Agricultural Credit Bank)
CONASUPO  =    Comision Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (the
National Marketing Board for Basic Products)
DAP       =    Diammonium Phosphate
FERTIMEX  =    Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A. (Mexican Fertilizer Corporation)
FFM       =    Fertilizantes Fostatados Mexicanos S.A.
GUANOMEX  -    Guanos y Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A., FERTIMEX's
name up to December 31, 1977.
NAFINSA   -    Nacional Financiera S.A. (financial agent for the Government)
NPK            The symbol used to indicate compound fertilizers and
standing for the three main nutrients: nitrogen (N),
phosphate (P205) and potash (K20).
TSP       -    Triple Super Phosphate
tpy       -    tons per year
PEMEX     =    Petroleos Mexicanos S.A. (the National Petroleum Company).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO - SECOND FERTILIZER PROJECT (Lazaro Cardenas)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:           Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) and
Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A. (FERTIMEX)
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Beneficiary:         FERTIMEX
Amount:              US$80 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment over 15 years including 4 years of grace.
Interest to NAFINSA at 7 percent per annum. FERTIMEX
would carry the foreign exchange risk and pay NAFINSA
a fee of 3 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       Construction of a complex to produce and sell the fol-
lowing: 275,000 tons per year of diammonium phosphate,
250,000 tons per year of compound fertilizers, 190,000
tons per year of solid ammonium nitrate and 10,000 tons
per year of phosphoric acid (expressed as P 0 5).  The
complex will include facilities to produce the following
intermediate and end products:
1.  sulfuric acid                  660,000 tpy
2.  phosphoric acid                 198,000 tpy (as P 0 )
3.  nitric acid                     215,000 tpy (as 160i)
ammonium nitrate               270,000 tpy
4.  diammonium phosphate (DAP)    275,000 tpy
compound fertilizers (NPK)    250,000 tpy
In view of the steps being taken to promote the use of
high analysis fertilizers, and of their inherent advant-
ages, the market risk is acceptable. The Company is
taking steps to reduce the management risk by improving
methods in some fields. Overall, the project presents
a moderate level of risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:       (in US$ million equivalent)
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
Land and infrastructure             14.6     2.0    16.6        8.1
Civil works                         29.7     4.3    34.0       16.7
Processing equipment, spares        15.8    32.6    48.4       23.8
Aux. equipment & materials          19.0    26.1    45.1       22.2
Plant erection                     32.5      5.6    38.1       18.7
Licenses and engineering             3.3      8.1    11.4       5.5
Procurement services                 1.2     1.9      3.1       1.5
Preoperating expenses                5.8     1.4      7.2       3.5
Base costs                       121.9    82.0   203.9    100.0
Physical contingencies              14.0      7.2    21.2
Price contingencies                 18.4     8.0    26.4
Subtotal                        154.3    97.2   251.5
Interest during construction         3.5    20.4    23.9
Working capital                     19.0      6.9    25.9
Total Financing Requirements  176.8   124.5   301.3
Financial Plan:       (in US$ million equivalent)
Local  Foreign  Total        x
Equity
Government contribution             95.4      -      95.4    31.6
FERTIMEX cash generation            19.0     6.9    25.9      8.6
Subtotal                        114.4      6.9   121.3    40.2
Loans
IBRD                                -       80.0      80.0   26.6
Bilateral credits                    -       4.6       4.6    1.6
Borrowings from banks               62.4    33.0      95.4   31.6
Subtotal                         62.4   117.6    180.0   59.8
Total Financing                   176.8   124.5    301.3  100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                             Fiscal Years-----
1979     1980      1981
Annual                            24.0      44.0      12.0
Cumulative                        24.0      68.0     80.0
Rates of Return:    Financial:  8.3 percent (before taxes)
Economic:  12.3 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            2273-ME of March 30, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
AND FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
I,.t A SECOND FERTILIZER PROJECT (LAZARO CARDENAS)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) and Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A.
(FERTIMEX) with the guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of
US$80 million to help finance a phosphate based fertilizer project at Lazaro
Cardenas on the west coast of Mexico. The loan would be repaid over 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. A special economic mission visited
Mexico in April-May 1977 and its report has been discussed with the Mexican
authorities and is about to be circulated to the Executive Directors. The
discussion which follows reflects the principal and updated findings of the
mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could not
improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity even
more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated steadily,
primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.5 percent per
year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic growth rate made
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for a
Highway Sector Project (R79-43) of March 8, 1979.



- 2 -
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment difficult.
Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively unproductive and
poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned
the fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the
devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last quarter
of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million. For 1977-79,
an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-year stabiliza-
tion program was negotiated. The new Government ratified the agreement with
the IMF shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has
complied with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program include control of inflation together with a return to high rates
of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures, more
rational pricing and cost control in public sector enterprises, promotion
of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable levels, and more
effective cooperation with the private sector are important parts of the
Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation was brought back to less than 20 percent
in 1978, down from an annual rate of more than 60 percent in the last
quarter of 1976, immediately after the devaluation. The deficit in the
current account of the balance of payments peaked at $4.2 billion in 1975 and
declined to $2.0 billion in 1977. The favorable oil prospects allowed it to



- 3 -
increase again and it is estimated to have been around $3.0 billion in 1978.
Public sector financial requirements also peaked at 8.7 percent of GDY in 1975
and declined to 5 percent of GDY in 1978. Mobilization of savings by the
banking system has also been recovering at a strong pace. The GDP rate of
growth is estimated at about 6 percent in 1978 as compared to less than
3 percent in 1977. The outlook for 1979 is favorable; the rate o^ growth of
the economy will increase while all efforts are going to be undertaken to make
the rate of inflation decrease; the deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments and the public sector's financial requirements are likely
to remain at the 1978 levels.
Economic Issues and Prospects
9.        The Mexican authorities have adopted a comprehensive social
program aimed at strengthening the political system, improving income dis-
tribution and the living conditions of the poor, increasing public sector
efficiency and accelerating growth. The program takes into account two
overriding economic priorities--energy development and adequate supplies
of foodstuffs--and takes the form of a three stage economic strategy. The
first stage--the stabilization period--is almost over and has been devoted
to overcome the serious economic problems the new Government inherited.
The second stage would be devoted to establishing the basis for attaining
a high, equitable and stable rate of growth. During this stage--1979-80--
efforts will be made to overcome supply bottlenecks, increase agricultural
production, improve the marketing system, increase the efficiency and competi-
tiveness of the country's industrial sector and create the conditions necessary
for a more just distribution of the benefits of growth. Accelerated and equit-
able growth would be the characteristics of the third stage.
10.       Mexico has the human, institutional and natural resources necessary
to attain these ambitious goals. The short-run disequilibria that have
affected the country during the mid-70s have been brought under control;
the new petroleum riches and the country's ability to exploit them have
greatly relaxed the financial constraints on growth. In his last State of the
Union speech President Lopez Portillo announced that Mexico's present oil and
gas reserves amounted to 20 billion barrels on July 31, 1978 and that probable
and potential reserves amounted to 37 billion and 120 billion barrels, respec-
tively. These figures were revised upward in January 1979 and proven oil and
gas reserves put at about 40 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves
would allow Mexico to increase production of crude oil, natural gas and
petrochemicals from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976 to
about 3.3 million bbl/day in 1982 and to export the equivalent of about 1.4
million bbl/day of crude oil in 1982 (for approximately US$8.5 billion on the
basis of conservative price assumptions), not counting gas exports.
11.       The challenge ahead is how to use these vast riches to help resolve
Mexico's long-term development problems which include the following:
(i) Population and Poverty. Many Mexican families have not partici-
pated in the sustained economic growth of the last several
decades. As of 1975, about 4 million Mexican families--45
percent of the total--receive incomes equal to less than



- 4 -
one-half the national average. The members of most of these
families work--more than half of them in agriculture--but
they produce little and receive little. Mexico's labor force
is now growing at about 3.1 percent per year, which implies an
average annual increase by some 550,000 workers during 1975-80;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year. The
challenge of providing productive jobs for both new entrants
and existing underproductive workers is awesome;
(ii)  Stagnation in Agriculture.  Crop and livestock production
in Mexico, which had grown by 6 percent per year during
1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year during 1955-65, grew at
only 2.1 percent per year during 1965-75, resulting in
increased imports of corn and wheat;
(iii)  Regional Imbalances.  The heavy concentration of people,
production, and public services in the Mexico City area--
which has currently a population of about 12 million and
is growing at over 5 percent each year--and the scarcity
of productive employment and services for rural Mexicans
are challenges to urban management, economic development,
and social justice. They imply diversion of some of Mexico
City's future growth to other regions, as well as the
gradual concentration of scattered rural populations into
small towns so that basic public services could be provided
more economically and productive activities would have a
better chance of developing.
12.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
15), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining four years of the present administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the Govern-
ment's family planning program (on October 28, 1977, President Lopez Portillo
announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to 2.5 percent
per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3 percent by
1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture,
and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing productive
employment, should help to address the structural problems mentioned above.
13.       In agriculture, the current administration has undertaken a far-
reaching administrative reform that will allow broader and more effective
Government action in the sector. Emphasis is laid on productivity gains
and yield increases in both irrigated and rainfed areas. The previous goal
of self-sufficiency in agricultural goods is being rephrased in terms of
the sector's overall capacity to pay for its own imports. Irrigation is
fostered through a nationwide program for small irrigation and drainage works
and rehabilitation of existing irrigation districts to increase efficiency



-5-
of water use. The new emphasis on rainfed agriculture, relatively neglected
in the past, should lead to an increase in the productive potential of vast
areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal of past trends towards
larger income disparities between the modern and traditional agricultural
subsectors. These initiatives, together with the realistic exchange rate,
promise a resumption of growth in production for both domestic and export
markets and an improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
14.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods
as well as exports of many different manufactured products. PEMEX has already
started an ambitious investment program to produce a variety of primary petro-
chemicals on a large scale for both domestic consumption and export, and it is
expected that the private sector will complement this by investing in the
production of secondary petrochemicals. Tourism export earnings are also
expected to increase.
15.       Paramount among the benefits of recent public sector investments
are the new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the dis-
coveries of rich petroleum fields.  The Government has decided to use these
large hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service
burden and to enhance the country's development prospects. The additional
domestic demand likely to occur due to the large planned increase in Govern-
ment expenditures associated with increased public investment and programs
aimed at increasing employment and the productivity of the poor will have to
be satisfied partially through increased imports. Net interest payments are
likely to increase in the future given the rapid increase in foreign debt
which occurred during the last sexenio and the borrowing expected to take
place in the years to come. However, rapidly increasing petroleum exports
and favorable tourism earnings prospects, the recovery of agricultural
exports and resumption of growth of manufactured exports have strengthened
the balance of payments outlook and will keep the current account deficit at
reasonable levels.
16.       Mexico's debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past
and reached 48 percent in 1977. This comparatively high debt service ratio is
more a reflection of the low level of exports relative to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks than it is an indication
of a high level of external debt relative to the size of the economy. When
middle income developing countries are ranked by the ratio of external public
debt to GNP, Mexico ranks as average. The debt service ratio is estimated to
have peaked at slightly over 50 percent: in 1978 and, mainly as a result of
the rapid expansion of petroleum export:s, is expected to decline sharply to
levels of around 30 percent in the early 1980's. Debt service on bank loans
amounts to about 3 percent of public debt service; this ratio is projected to
decrease over the next two years and to increase to some 4.5 percent in 1982.
The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's total medium- and long-
term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change in any significant
way over the next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for borrowing on
conventional terms considering the country's excellent medium- and long-term
potential and the well conceived economic strategy which the Government has
adopted to realize it.



- 6 -
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
17.       As of January 31, 1979, Mexico had received 57 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,128.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1,486.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$2,604.4 million of which US$1,116.3 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 40 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(19 loans for US$1,264.4 million), 23 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million) and 17 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for US$546.7
million); the remaining 20 percent has been for industry (US$352.5 million),
water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and urban development
(US$16.5 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program
(para. 9), and because of scarcity of counterpart funds some projects fell behind
schedule in 1976 and 1977. Adequate budget support for Bank projects has now
been secured. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
January 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
18.       As of January 31, 1979, IFC has made investment commitments in
17 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$202.4 million, of which US$129.4
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation,
US$73.0 million, consists of US$63.2 million in loans and US$9.8 million in
equity. A summary statement of IFC investments as of January 31, 1979 is
presented in Annex 1I.
Bank Strategy
19.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make dLrectly or
indirectly, significant contributions to output, exports, and employment; and
(iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority
that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of
employment and production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
20.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. rhe Bank
agricultural lending program for Mexicc has four goals: first, to Lncrease
productivity of presently cultivated l;nds through selected program, of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm imprcvements; second, to improve che pro-
ductivity of small farmers who receive the benefit of most Bank leniing through
programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural develop?ment,
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for a
Highway Sector Project (R79-43) of March 8, 1979.



- 7 -
(c) bringing new areas under cultivation, and (d) establishing irrigation and
drainage units; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote off-farm employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made seven loans in FY's 72 through 77, totalling US`579 million,
for irrigation, rural development and agriculture and livestock credit programs.
A US$56 million loan for an agricultural development project designed to inten-
sify agricultural production in Mexico's humid tropics and a US$200 million
loan for an agricultural credit project were approved by the Executive Directors
in FY78. A US$25 million supplemental loan for the Rio Panuco Irrigation
Project was recently approved. Besides a small-scale agricultural infrastruc-
ture project approved by the Executive Directors in December, 1978, future
Bank lending for agriculture includes projects for rehabilitation of irrigation
districts, water control, rural development and support services.
21.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Government's
efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize industrial
activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban areas. Thus,
a major steel project is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on
the west coast of Mexico, and a fertilizer project promotes new poles of
development in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area.
A project to promote the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises
and a third industrial equipment fund project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY78. The proposed project would reinforce the Government's efforts
to create a new industrial center on the Pacific coast of Mexico, help strengthen
one of the larger public sector enterprises in the country and support programs
to improve efficiency in the agricultural sector. Further Bank support to the
manufacturing industry by means of a credit project is being evaluated, and a
capital goods industry project is under study.
22.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia- at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of a specialized institution for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A Highway Sector Project Loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 20, 1979 and a second airports project to modernize and
expand high priority regional airports is being processed for submission to
the Executive Directors in the coming months.
23.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional economic
disparities prevailing in Mexico (para. 11). In June 1976 the Government adopted
the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework to deal with
the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activities in the larger
metropolitan areas. The Government has recently adopted a National Urban



Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities in oper-
ational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet the needs
for basic urban services for poor families and provide key regional infrastruc-
ture in selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in the develop-
ment of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast, was recently
approved by the Executive Directors, and another project for the southeast
part of the country will be appraised in the coming months.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
Agricultural Background
24.       More than 22 million of Mexico's 62 million population live in rural
areas.  About 40 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agriculture,
forestry or fishing; the sector accounts for over one-third of commodity exports.
Although agriculture provides important inputs for industry, its share in gross
domestic production declined from 19 percent in the 1930s to below 10 percent
in the late 1970s. Since the mid-1960s the growth in production of crops in
general, and of cereals in particular, fell below the growth in domestic demand,
while livestock production, accounting for about one-third of the sector's out-
put, has been growing consistently at around 5 percent per annum.
25.       The Mexican agricultural sector is marked by wide disparities in
resource endowment, technology, productivity, and income. While between
1915 and 1965 over half of Mexico's arable and pasture lands were distri-
buted to landless families under a pioneering agrarian reform program, the
land varies considerably in quality and productive potential from the arid
north to the tropical isthmus. Mexico has been a leader in applied agricul-
tural research, but the link with the farmer has been weak; as a result,
most small farmers have not yet fully benefitted from modern technology.
Access to public services, credit and infrastructure has been uneven.
Together, these factors have resulted in a sharp duality in Mexican agri-
culture: one third of Mexico's cultivated area produces two-thirds of
Mexico's agricultural goods. Farmers in the irrigated zones and a selected
number of rainfed agricultural zones have developed into productive rural
entrepreneurs, but most of Mexico's small farmers work by traditional
methods, subsist on a modicum of production from their farms, and barely
participate in the market economy. In an effort to correct this imbalance,
the Government is intensifying technical, promotional, and organizational
assistance to farmers and is concentrating public investment in agriculture
on programs to benefit the small farmers and eiidatarios. 1/
The Government's Agricultural Development Policies
26.       The Government has in recent years focused on increasing production
of basic food crops (maize, wheat and rice) so as to attain self-sufficiency,
and on raising the productivity, incomes and living standards for the poorer
sections of the rural population.
1/   Eiidatarios are members of an eiido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.



- 9 -
27.       The Government's strategy for increasing agricultural production
includes measures to increase the cropped area and to increase the productivity
of lands currently being cropped. The Government is bringing new lands into
production and stimulating changes in cropping patterns to increase the area
devoted to basic food crops. Development of new rainfed lands is getting
underway mainl  in the humid tropical zone, where a largely underutilized area
of about 8 mili .on ha is estimated to have medium to high agricultural poten-
tial. To induce changes in cropping pattern that would help offset the
decreased area devoted to wheat and maize during recent years, the Government
has recently increased the guarantee prices of these two crops relative to
sorghum and soybeans.
28.       The present administration is placing significant emphasis on
developing programs to increase farm productivity. A program to rehabilitate
those irrigation districts where infrastructure is inadequate or where lands
are in poor condition has been expanded. Increasing attention is being given
to development of the potential of rainfed agriculture. The 110 recently
established rainfed agricultural districts would promote the adoption of
modern technology and would be the basis for strengthening the delivery of
technical assistance and marketing services to farmers. Such programs are
complemented by other public investments to improve the incomes and employ-
ment levels of the rural poor. The most important of these is the national
Investment Program for Rural Development (PIDER) which provides a balanced
package of directly productive support and social infrastructure to
residents of Mexico's poorest rural zones and for which a Second Bank loan
was approved by the Executive Director in FY1977.
29.       Thus the Government's agricultural development strategy provides
access to modern farming techniques for a higher proportion of its rural
population. The strategy calls for investments by the Government in
applied research and extension as well as in physical infrastructure. At
the same time, the Government is stimulating private investment through
credit institutions. The Bank is supporting the Government's strategy in
both these areas. The tropical agricultural development project, approved
by the Executive Directors in FY78, finances part of the Government's
program to open the humid tropical areas to intensive use. In addition,
projects for irrigation, drainage and improvement of the agricultural
extension and marketing systems are under study. The sixth agricultural
credit project, approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, supports private
investment in agriculture and agroindustries. The proposed project would
support a significant increase in Mexico's capacity to produce fertilizer.
30.       Of Mexico's 15.5 million ha. of land under cultivation in 1977, 4.5
million ha. or about 30 percent, were irrigated.  Overall, fertilizer was being
applied to about half the land under cultivation, but a much higher proportion
of irrigated land (88 percent) was being fertilized than of non-irrigated land
(32 percent). This uneveness of fertilizer application is a reflection of the
current duality in farming techniques and efficiency. However, in spite of
this, improved cultivation practices, including the use of better seeds and
greater amounts of fertilizer, have raised average cultivation yields over the
past years; for instance, average corn yields -- a crop that accounts for
about 46 percent of land under cultivation -- increased 21 percent between
1962 and 1976. Nevertheless, these improvements have not been sufficient to
permit agricultural output to keep pace with population growth.



- 10 -
The Fertilizer Market
31.       Fertilizer consumption in Mexico has been increasing steadily.  From
1960 to 1978, nitrogen consumption increased at an average annual rate of
14 percent while phosphate consumption increased at 15 percent and potash at
13 percent yearly. Despite these growth rates, fertilizer usage remains low
in Mexico as compared to other countries. While Mexico uses about 34 kgs. per
hectare of arable land per year, Brazil employs 49 kgs., Portugal 67 kgs. and
the United States 92 kgs. of fertilizer. Considering that currently only
about half of Mexico's cultivated land receives fertilizer, the opportunities
for increasing fertilizer consumption are good. The major potential lies in
areas where rainfall is more predictable and the soil better able to store
moisture; such areas might account for as much as 20 percent of all land under
cultivation. Efforts to increase the use of fertilizers would need to concen-
trate on small farmers who at present use limited amounts. The Government has
already redirected its agricultural development efforts to assist small farmers
improve production, and is carrying out a number of different programs to this
end. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
promote NPK and DAP fertilizers, particularly in rainfed areas (Section 3.05
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
32.       In the past, the proportion of nitrogen nutrient to phosphate
nutrient used in fertilizing has fluctuated considerably, mainly due to supply
deficiencies but, on the whole, the proportion is improving as phosphate
fertilizers gain wider acceptance.
33.       Consumption of nitrogen fertilizers has been projected to grow at
a rate of 7.8 percent annually between 1978 and 1985, while phosphate fertil-
izers consumption is expected to increase at 13.3 percent per year. These
projections are considered realistic in view of past consumption growth
trends, of the large potential for increasing fertilizer consumption in
Mexico, and of the measures being taken by the Government's agencies to
improve agricultural productivity. Domestic demand and production forecasts
for the three specific products to be produced under the project are discussed
in paragraph 52.
The Fertilizer Industry
34.       Mexico began to build up its fertilizer production capacity in the
l950's. A major expansion of finished fertilizer production took place in
the early 1960's when several manufacturers developed domestic demand for
their fertilizers, but their production was largely dependent on imported
intermediates. Capacity to produce intermediary products was built up in the
second half of the 1960's, when phosphoric acid facilities were installed on
the Gulf coast, and in the mid 1970's, when ammonia plants were constructed by
PEMEX. In order to rationalize and consolidate the manufacture and distribu-
tion of a key input to agricultural production, the Government decided in 1965
that sole responsibility for the import and distribution of fertilizers in
Mexico would be given to FERTIMEX, S.A. 1/, a Government-owned corporation
1/   Then called Guanos y Fertilizantes de Mexico S.A. (GUANOMEX); the name
was officially changed on January 1, 1978.



- 13 -
yearly of marketable, 54 percent, phosphoric acid (expressed or P 0 5).  To
produce these fertilizers, the manufacturing complex will include facilities
in four areas with capacities as follows:
1.   Sulfuric acid                        660,000 tpy
2.   Phosphoric acid (54%)                198,000 tpy (as P205)
3.   Nitric acid (55%)                    215,000 tpy (as 100%)
Ammonium nitrate                     270,000 tpy
4.   Diammonium phosphate (DAP)           275,000 tpy
Compound fertilizers (NPK)          250,000 tpy
The project would also include facilities for generating steam and critical
power requirements, and for water supply and storage of all raw material and
intermediates (except ammonia which will be stored by PEMEX) as well as
finished products. The plant will be located on a 120 hectare grass roots site
at Lazaro Cardenas on the west coast of Mexico, a site with good infrastruc-
ture facilities and close to the main markets.
42.       Raw materials will be supplied from both domestic and foreign
sources. Sulfur, ammonia and diatomaceous earth will be available from
domestic suppliers, whereas phosphoric rock will initially be imported, but
may eventually be supplied from the deposits recently identified in Baja
California. Potassium chloride will be imported. Facilities to handle and
store these raw materials will be constructed on the project site. FERTIMEX
will construct its own berth in the port of Lazaro Cardenas; dredging work to
connect the existing channel to FERTIMEX's berth is also included in the project.
43.       To facilitate engineering and management, FERTIMEX has divided the
project into the four areas indicated above and a fifth, which covers all
services and utilities, solid handling and conveying facilities as well as
port and ship loading installations. Foreign engineering firms have already
been appointed to be responsible for providing licenses, basic engineering
design, foreign procurement services, technical coordination and supervision
of local engineering firms. The latter will provide detailed engineering
and local procurement services. For the fifth project area, FERTIMEX has
decided to award one contract for all solids handling and conveying plants,
and another for all utilities and service plants including coordination of the
overall project. Storage facilities and buildings will be handled by FERTIMEX's
own staff. In all cases FERTIMEX has selected proven processes and has awarded
contracts to experienced firms which are acceptable to the Bank. Responsibility
for overall management of the project and supervision of the prime contractors
will rest with FERTIMEX's construction department, which has appointed a full-
time project manager to lead the project management team.
44.       Project implementation is expected to take 36 months from award of
engineering contracts in October 1978; commercial production of all end-products
is expected to start in October 1981. Basic engineering design has begun, and
site preparation has already started.



- 14 -
The Company
45.       The project was prepared, and will be carried out and operated, by
FERTIMEX, one of the largest industrial and trading enterprises in Mexico.
FERTLMEX  is the country's main producer and sole distributor of fertilizers
and one of the Government's instruments to develop the agriculturil sector.
The Company's shares are owned by NAFINSA. FERTIMEX's Managing oirector is
appointed by the Executive Branch of the Government. The Secretary of National
Patrimony and Industrial Promotion is Chairman of FERTIMEX's Board of Directors,
on which the Secretariats of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources, Trade and
Finance are represented, as well as other government organizations with
interest in agricultural development.  FERTIMEX's Management is fully respon-
sible for day-to-day operations, but major policy decisions, especially
concerning fertilizer prices, capital investments and long-term borrowings,
are made by the Board in coordination with the various Government agencies
concerned with financial and/or agricultural promotion policies.
46.       FERTIMEX's Management is satisfactory.  The Company's Operations
Department has a creditable record of running manufacturing facilities
efficiently and at high rates of utilization. The Planning and Development
Department was recently strengthened and has used help from consultants to
broaden its construction management capabilities. The Financial Department
has been reorganized recently and new control systems have been introduced.
Substantial progress has been made in improving financial reporting and the
Company intends to further develop financial planning and control systems so
that they are more in accord with the size and complexity of its operations.
47.       FERTIMEX currently owns fertilizer production facilities at ten
locations in Mexico (See map 13550). In 1977, they had capacity to produce
about 2.1 million tons a year of finished fertilizer products, equivalent to
430,000 tons per year of nitrogen nutrient and 260,000 tons per year of
phosphatic nutrient. Capacity utilization has been very good; during 1977
many plants operated at above their nominal capacity. FERTIMEX's current
expansion program includes, but is not limited to, the proposed project, and
is expected to increase ammonium sulphate capacity by 30 percent, ammonium
nitrate by 100 percent, urea by 300 percent, diammonium phosphate by 200
percent, simple superphosphate by 100 percent and compound fertilizers by
200 percent. In terms of nutrient content, FERTIMEX will have nearly trebled
its nitrogen capacity and about doubled its phosphate production capacity
after completion of its expansion program in 1982. FERTIMEX's Management
is capable of carrying out this large construction program satisfactorily
with no adverse effect on the implementation and financing of the proposed
project.
Employment and Training
48.       The project will provide permanent employment to about 630 people,
most of whom will be recruited in the Lazaro Cardenas area. Construction of
the project is expected to provide a significant boost to employment at
Lazaro Cardenas, which is experiencing significant unemployment. No major
difficulty is expected in recruiting the less skilled labor though FERTIMEX



- 15 -
will develop a plan for the recruitment and training of new staff. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that FERTIMEX would revise its opera-
tions staff training program by December 31, 1979 and promptly thereafter
carry it out (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Situation
49.       FERTIMEX's financial situation has been adversely affected by the
Government's fertilizer pricing policies and by the substantial devaluations
of the peso at the end of 1976. Reduced cash generation resulting from a
policy of low prices for fertilizers would have caused the Company substan-
tial losses but for compensatory payments made by the Government. In spite
of these, FERTIMEX's liquidity has been reduced and its financial ratios
have deteriorated. For example, the long-term debt equity ratio increased
from 29/71 in 1974/75 to 65/35 at the end of 1977, largely as a result of
operating losses and the intervening peso devaluations. The bulk of FERTIMEX's
loans are denominated in foreign currencies.
50.       FERTIMEX's practice of maintaining high levels of inventories
and accounts receivable results in high levels of working capital which are
financed through short-term loans. To improve its liquidity, FERTIMEX plans
to reduce the level of its working capital and agreed during negotiations
to maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3:1.0 after December 31, 1979
(Section 5.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The Government's main concern in setting fertilizer prices has
been to stimulate increased agricultural output by supplying fertilizers at
low prices. Since the 1976 financial crisis, it has also avoided action
which might have an inflationary impact, particularly in the agricultural
sector which has an important impact on inflation through food prices.
Though the Government compensates FERTIMEX for losses incurred in marketing
foreign fertilizers, for foreign exchange losses, and for discounts which
the Government has requested it grant farmers, these compensations have not
been enough to permit the Company to improve its financial situation. For
instance, in 1978 FERTIMEX (excluding FFM) received compensatory payments
equal to 20 percent of its total revenues, but despite these its net income
was less than 0.1 percent on total assets. To improve FERTIMEX's financial
prospects, assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it would take all action to enable FERTIMEX, operating efficiently, to
attain financial returns on average revalued assets in operation, plus
working capital required for normal operation, of at least 3.5 percent in
1980-82, and 8.0 percent in 1983 and thereafter (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). If retail fertilizer prices are insufficient to
enable FERTIMEX to achieve these rates of return, the Government would make
payments to FERTIMEX to partly compensate subsidies to farmers implicit in
the retail price of fertilizers. FERTIMEX on its part has agreed to carry
out studies of the costs and benefits to farmers of the use of fertilizers
(Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement) which could serve as a rational
basis for fertilizer pricing.



- 16 -
Market
52.       The forecasts of domestic demand for the three products to be
manufactured under the project are based on the assumption that consumption
of ammonium nitrate will increase at an average of 4 percent a year up to
1985, diammonium phosphate at 7 percent, and compound fertilizers at 9
percent per year in the same period. The production of ammonium nitrate and
compound fertilizers approximately matches proposed demand, but there would
be a temporary surplus of diammonium phosphate equivalent to about 22
percent of total capacity immediately after project start-up. However,
demand projections are conservative since they are based on past rates of
consumption, which were depressed by insufficient supply of these products.
Also, statistics on past consumption probably understate actual amounts used
and, moreover, recent promotional efforts have shown that farmers accept
higher analysis fertilizers of this kind readily. Given the conservative
nature of the demand projections, and taking into account the likely effects
of the proposed promotional program, domestic demand for the fertilizers to
be produced under the project is expected to be sufficient to absorb the
project's entire output.
Marketing
53.       The project's output will be marketed mainly in North, Central and
South West Mexico, which includes important agricultural areas. FERTIMEX's
marketing strategy is to avoid dependence on one mode of distribution. In
1977, it sold about 42 percent of its fertilizers directly to large farmers,
industrial users or through commission agents, and the reminder through a
two-step distribution system. Organizations such as the Banco Nacional de
Gredito Rural (BANRURAL), sugar corporations, agricultural cooperatives and
related organizations, and CONASUPO, the national marketing board for basic
products, channel FERTIMEX's fertilizers to their respective farming partici-
pants and clients. Although these distribution systems have been adequate in
the past, they are not reaching a sufficient number of small farmers with low
levels of productivity and income. Expansion of fertilizer production and
marketing is expected to result in a sharp increase in rail traffic by 1982
when substantial amounts of primary, intermediate and finished products will
have to be moved in a system which is already reaching full capacity in some
areas. In order to identify areas of improvement in its marketing methods and
product transportation systems, FERTIMEX has agreed to carry out studies which
are to be completed by August 31, 1980 (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financial Plan
54.       Total financial requirements for the project, including working
capital and interest during construction, are estimated at US$301.3 million
equivalent, of which US$124.5 million equivalent is in foreign exchange. A
breakdown of project costs may be found in the Loan and Project Summary.
Physical contingencies were calculated at 10.4 percent of base costs.
Price contingencies were based on annual escalation rates of 7.5 percent for
1979 and 7 percent thereafter for all equipment, and 10 percent for civil



- 17 -
works and erection during the entire period. The same price escalation rates
were used for both local and foreign expenditures on the assumption that the
difference between domestic and international rates of inflation would be
compensated by changes in the peso exchange rate. Permanent working capital
requirements for the project are estimated at US$25.9 million equivalent on
the assumption that FERTI14EX will reduce the level of its working capital
needs substantially, as expected.
55.       The project would be financed with equity contributions equivalent
to 40 percent of total costs, and loans equivalent to 60 percent. Debt
financing of US$180 million equivalent would be obtained from: the U.S.
EXIMBANK, which is expected to provide about US$4.6 million to cover part of
the licensing and foreign service costs; about US$95 million equivalent from
international commercial banks, and the proposed loan of US$80 million from
the Bank. Loans from international banks would finance indirect foreign
exchange costs, local expenditures and interest during construction on other
than the Bank loan. They would be arranged by NAFINSA which is a well estab-
lished borrower in international markets, and the long term resources would
be made available to FERTIMEX on terms satisfactory to the Bank and according
to an agreed schedule (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Inter-
national banks and insurance companies have already expressed interest in
participating with the Bank in the financing of the project.
56.       The proposed Bank loan would finance about US$7.7 million of engineer-
ing, licensing, supervision and start-up assistance expenses, about US$33.5
million of equipment and materials awarded under international competitive
bidding, about US$26 million of imported proprietary and critical equipment
and small items, and about US$12.8 million of interest during construction
and other costs. The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including
four years of grace, and interest charges to FERTIMEX would be 10 percent
annually with the difference between this and the Bank lending rate payable
to NAFINSA on behalf of the Government. FERTIMEX and NAFINSA would be joint
borrowers and FERTIMEX would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement
57.       All equipment items financed under the Bank loan would be procured
by international competitive bidding according to procedures acceptable to the
Bank, after prequalification of suppliers, except for imported small items
totalling less than US$100,000 each (up to a maximum of US$16 million) and
proprietary and critical items requiring a long lead time for delivery not
exceeding US$10 million, which would be procured after prudent international
shopping. Local suppliers would be entitled to a 15 percent margin of prefer-
ence or the applicable import duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Procure-
ment of all local equipment and materials not being financed by the Bank under
its international bidding rules, and award of civil works contracts, would be
according to FERTIMEX's own procedures involving competitive bidding among
local suppliers. Advance contracting of items eligible for Bank financing are
expected to amount to approximately US$45 million, including US$7.7 million of
engineering contracts.



- 18 -
Disbursements
58.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of 100 per-
cent of expenditures for: foreign engineering, licenses, supervision and
start-up assistance; foreign equipment and materials awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding; foreign proprietary and critical equipment and
small items; consulting services, and for interest during construction up to
April 1, 1982. Retroactive financing of up to US$8.6 million (or 10.8 percent
of the proposed loan) is recommended to cover expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1978.
Projected Financial Returns and Performance
59.       The financial forecasts for FERTIMEX and the project are based on
the program to improve the Company's financial situation which the Government
has agreed to follow (see para. 51).  The impact on the Company's performance
should be apparent quickly and, by 1980, when the financial ratios agreed upon
for the first project become operative, the Company is expected to meet all of
them. On this basis, the financial rate of return for the project alone is
calculated at 8.3 percent before taxes.
60.       During negotiations assurances were obtained that the following
financial ratios would be observed: (i) a debt/equity ratio of 60/40 or
better will be maintained at all times; (ii) no additional debt over US$10
million equivalent will be incurred after December 31, 1980 if the projected
debt service ratio would fall below 1.4; and (iii) the Company will pay no
dividends or prepay debt if the current ratio drops below 1.5 (Section 5.06
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Company would submit audited financial
statements annually within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
Environmental Aspects
61.       All potential emissions would be controlled to safe and environ-
mentally acceptable levels by adequate plant design and appropriate clean-up
facilities. Plants would be designed and constructed to ensure that the
entire complex meets the contamination limits required by Mexican law,
and in cases where such laws do not yet cover certain contaminants, the
project would conform to the standards set by the US Environmental Protec-
tion Agency. The plant site would include a 60 ha site for the adequate
disposal of gypsum produced by the phosphoric acid plant. However, con-
sidering the potential environmental and pollution problems associated with
projects of this nature, confirmation was obtained during negotiations that
FERTIMEX will ensure that the project will be designed, constructed and
operated to meet generally accepted ecological and safety standards (Sections
3.05 and 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Benefits
62.       The project has a satisfactory economic rate of return of 12.3
percent. This results from the extensive use of domestic raw materials,
with associated savings in transporting these and finished products to the



- 19 -
market, and also because the project would realize economies of scale in
production. The project would also provide a substantial stimulus to the
development of Lazaro Cardenas, a new development pole expected to attract
investment away from the increasingly congested urban areas in central Mexico.
Lastly, the project would enable Mexico to have an assured supply of an impor-
tant range of finished, high analysis fertilizers, and would enable it to pursue
its agricultural development policies without concern for possibe fluctuations
in the world supply of such fertilizers.
Maior Risks
63.       The project faces two kinds of risks.  The market risks are related
to the speed with which high analysis fertilizers are accepted by farmers and
the extent to which the marketing system is adapted to reach a greater number
of small farmers. In view of the assurances obtained from the Government that
high analysis fertilizers will be promoted, of the inherent advantages of such
fertilizers, this risk can be considered acceptable. The second risk is
associated with management, including FERTIMEX's ability to reduce the level
of its working capital, and project implementation management. Considering
the measures the Company is taking and plans to take to improve management in
these areas, the risk is not great. On the whole, this project presents a
moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, NAFINSA and FERTIMEX, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1979



- 20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1972.5                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      950.0                                  MOST RECEtT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   360.0        660.0    1110.0            1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       770.0      1047.0    1221.0             911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MiD-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         36.0         50.4       64.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.7           58.7      63.3             57.9        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         18.0        26.0       33.0             25.6        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       36.0        52.0       68.0             77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.8        46.2       46.3             42.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.9         50.1       50.3             52.2        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3          3.7       3.4              3.7         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1          3.4       3.5              2.7         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                4.9         4.8        5.1              4.3         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.1         43.8      42.0              35.8       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.0         10.2       8.6              9.1        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.1       3.0              2.6         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1      608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..      13.1             15.1        20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               87.5        100.0      99.1            102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    107.0       105.0      117.0            103.9       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0        65.0       66.9             60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0        28.0 /f   27.5              26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       12.7          9.8       8.4              8.7         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.3          62.4       64.7             62.6        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             74.0         68.5      52.0             56.9        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        54.0       62.0             60.7        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                 ..        71.0       70.0             78.0        79.0        83.5
RURAL                                 ..        29.0       49.0             34.9        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..             61.1        30.9        70.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 ..        13.0       14.0             25.4        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1800.0      1480.0         *            1899.3     2706.8       131D.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2830.0 /    1620.0 /h      ..           1220.1      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1900.0       960.0      830.0            422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                 *-       780.0         *-            258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 ..      1310.0 /I      ..           2281.6     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..             25.6        22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.7         ..              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                               5.7          5.7         ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                                5.2         5.8         ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.9         2.5         ..              2.0        2.0          0.9
URBAN                                2.6         2.2         ..              2.1        1.5          0.8
RURAL                                3.4         3.2         ..              2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        59.0         ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                                 ..        80.7         ..             77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                                ..         28.0         ..             12.8       34.1         12.5



_ 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJL'STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  80.0        10740      112.0             103.5       99.8          97.6
FEMALE                77.0        102.0      109.0             102.9       93.3          87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0       30.0             37.2        33.8          47.8
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0       29.0              37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0           24.0         ..              14.7        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         46.0       46.0              32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         14.0       17.0              17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0         74.0       76.0              74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          14.0         24.0       40.0              26.9        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          95.0        276.0      301.0             173.5       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          19.0         59.0       84.0             69.4        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    79.0          ..         ..              72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0             5.0       4.1               4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0        13000.0   16600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4       18.5             21.4        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               54.0         45.0       41.0             37.8        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5         22.9       24.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8       28.8             30.8        33.8         33.7
MALE                                   51.1         47.4      46.8              47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                  9.2        10.1       10.7              13.2        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          2.0        1.8              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.7 lh        27.9         ..             28.9        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.8 /h        58.3         ..             57.7        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 1h         3.4         ..              3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.3 /h        10.5         ..             10.7        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      350.0            200.6       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-           *-      484.0            403.1       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..      345.0            258.0       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       29.0             24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       40.0             65.2        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean; Id Intermediate Middle Incom ($551-1135 per capita. 1976); /e Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;   /g  Including midwifery and nursing
auxilliaries;   /h  1963;   Ii  Data refer to rural health centers only.
September, 1978



-22 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
totes: Although the date ams draw. from aource generally judged the IN19 esthoritative end reliable, it should also be noted that they eay not be inter-
namtionally otieambl. b.ecaus of ch. lack of standardised definittasme n cmenpte ueed by differenit countriem tn collecting the dat&. The data ale. oosetheleas.
usef.1 to dascribe orders of amignitude, indicate treed., and cheracterite certain major difference, between countries.
The adluatod :ro,.., eveages for each indicator are population-weighted loametric mens, excluding the "xtram. valose. of the indicator and the eoat
populated coun try ionat  grop.  C-orage of countries am"n  the indicatess depends  n  wavalability of dateared to not uniform.  SUe to lack of date,
groop averagea for Capital Surplus Oil E.porters end indicators of access to water and ectrta disposal, housing, incme distribu.tion  and poverty gre
ui.pla popul.tito-ueipht.d geomtric oma. without the .-loaion of extrm valuee.
LAND AREA (thousand aq. k.)                                                               Poculatlee Par hosptlb   -ttl   ra,adrr.      ouain(total,
Total - Total surface area coaprising land area sod intland waters.                        urban, an   ual   iid  ;bytofhei  reepctiv  maiMr olf ,hoslptitalI bed.
Agricultural - Moat recent matimate of agricultural area naed tmaorerily                   available in public and private general and speclaliand hospital and in-
or permanetly for crop., pastures. markat and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation  cantate.  NOapitela are  astablisahmont  permanently staf fed by
Ite fallow.                                                                             at meat one physician.  Setabliahomenta providing principally custodial
PER  APIT   (US) - NP pr ..ita  stimtes  t cur"t   rk*tpricc,     . a ara nt included.  Rural hospitala, however. includa health end medi-
.INP PRAIT    ll-IPpecaiaatataacurn   aktpis.                                               Cal center. not jermenently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a,-
calculated by Canse conva...lJ.  method as WIorld Bank Atlee (1976-77 basis).            aimtant, nurse. eidwife, aet.) which offer in-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
b~ein   a   oepitel bed - Total number of adeiesions to or discharges
ing~ co.guyiw P   CAPI Am- h al convmptia  of ceenerci.  energy                   f"rom   ositla divided by the number of boed.
(coalend  igei e,ptrols..., natural ge  mg by&re-. *      e m    dcler  ga-
thermal electricity) in kilogrens of teal   lequvlent per espit&.                   ______
,vra   Ixs of household (persons per household) - total, urban. and total -
POPUEATI00IAM  I?&TALSi PIIA household cemaiste of a group of individuals who share living quartere
1Y2 12I- As of July 1; if Met aveilable.                andthirmin seals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
wearage of~   veei76"   Uansto  19V". 1970. ad1977 date.                                 the houaaboald for etatietical purposes.  Statiatical dafinitiona of house-
Urbanensulcise  gegct:of total  - latin of urbde to total pegusal-                  hold vary.
tion  difdree  dahitine o  urban are". may affect comebillty                  Averass wAubar of persona per roon - total, urban, and rural - Averege nue-
of data amog co,mtriaa                                                                  ber of pareone par room in all. urban. and rural occupied conventional
Pos'"tLess, dmmitv                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, respectively.  Deellioga exclude non-peramaent struetures and
!a.M.   in,   Nu-year population per equate kiloeater (100 bentare)                      unoccupied parts..
of total eras.                                                                        Acceas to electricity (percent of dvellinxa) - total, utrban. and rural -
Per a. ha. aarisltuxe landA - Computed a. above for egricultural law                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartrer  as percentage
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
PosuatMnam  tutue(ecet   Children (0-16 years)  wetking-ag
(15 -6                               tor.*adrtie   6   y arsed ov6r) as prcentagee of mid-  EDUCATION
year population.ol t  ato
Population Aroeth rate (percent) -  oa.ub-Coueped mowali                                Prlnary school - total. and f mole - Total and fasmale enrollmant of all  Sage
growth rates of total and urbanmd-yea  ppuato   for 1930460.                            at the primary level as perctantges of reapectively primary school-age
1960-7i. and 1970-15.                                                                   populations; nrorally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjuated for
Crude birth rate  sar thwousad) - Amoual live birthe per tbeneenmd of                     different lengths of primary education; for countrias with universal edu-
mid-year papultise; ten-year aritbmtic average    iA"g In 1960 end                      cation enrolleant may exceed 100 percent since auo6  pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for meet recant  atinate.                     above the official school age.
Cruda death rats (per thauew5  -  --Ia da"tba per tbousee  of mid-                      Secondary echool - total. and f male - Computed as above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arlthoEic everagme aming he 1960an  1970                       tion requires at least f our years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average enadiag in 1975 for vosat recent eatimete.                        vides genertal vrccational. or teacher training inatructione for pupila
Gross reproduction rots - Averege n,mer of daughtesre a                will bear           usually of 12 to 17 years of age; ctrraspondance coursea are generally
in her normal oeprsductive period if sba enperiemeee prememst gge                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; uaually five-year averagee ending In 1960,                  Vocational anrolleent  percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programe which operate independently
Family planinio  - ecceptors. easual (tbous"al - Aanual wnmber of                          or as departments of secondary inatitutione.
acceptors oc birth-control devic.. ,dt mawpices of national tinily                   Pupil-teac~her ratio - olrizaryI.and secondary - Total etudants enrolled in
planning program,                                                                       primary and meacodar  1.la        divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fmily 1polauina - w"ear  (Percant ofmrid m        ercentage of                             eponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age  15-44 yeare) who wee birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
davices to all married woa  in samse age group.                                         a percetage of total adult population  agad 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food prodcion pear caPit& (1970-100) - teAom nAinber of par                   PaeaMarcs (per thousand population) - Paxeasger cars compries  mtor cars
capita aeua  poution of all food cowditims.                                           seting lesa than eight perwons; excludes ambulances, hearses and  itlitary
Per capita !upl of cs=irie  (sercet of reewirets) - Camwtsd from                        vehicles.*g  
menery equivalent of sa   ood aplina avalaoble in cowetry per capite                 Radio receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of receivers for radio
par day.  Available supplima romprise domestic productiam. imports Leem               broadcasts to ganeral public per thousand of populetion; axtlud.s unliceared
exports, and changee in stock.  Nat supplies exclude enimel feed  a"edx,              receivers in countries sod in years when registration of radio sets was. in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in diatribution.  Ru-                  effect; date for raceot yrear  may not be comparable since mast countries,
quiramanrta wera sati-ted by FAO baaed on physicological needs for nor-               abolished licens.ing.
eal actIvity and health considering enviromommntal tenpraturs. body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivar. for hbroadr...t to gene.raL
weighta, age and sax distributiona of population, end allowing 10 par-                  public per thouaand population; excludee unlicensed TV recaivere in coon-
cen t for veate at houseshold level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV aeta was in effect.
For Capita mupoly of oroti  (err-  per day) - Protein content of per                   Newapaer circulation (par thousand population) - Shows tho average circula-
capita ear supply of foo  pe  day,    Net supply of food is defineid a.                 T ti    of"dailytganaral interest nawspaper". defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Raquirements for all countries astablished by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It ie considered to
a oi,ie,e alloanc  o f 60 grma of total protein per day end 20 gramo                    be 'daily' if it appears at leas.t four times. a weak.
of anima  and pulsa protein, of which ii arwma should be animal protein.             Cinena~ annual attendance par capita par year - Eased on the number of ticket.
Th...at oandards are lower than those of 7) grmam of total protein and                  sodd during the year, inceluding admissions to drive-in cinmas and nobile
23 grams. of anial protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
PAO in the Tird Wdorld Pood Survey.
par caPita protei samply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOIYMET
derived f roe animals and pulses in grom  per day.                                   Total labor force (tbousands) - Economically active persona, including amsd
Child (axon 1-4) eartality rate (par thousand) - Annual deatha per thous-                 forces and uneeployed but excluding housewives, stuents, etc.  Dsf mi-
and in mgs group 1-4 years, to childrsn in this age group.                               tion, in various countrieso arm not cor.parable.
Tt!a(nrcat  - Female, labor.force as parce..ag   o s    f total labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                                   exiutrs(scnt) - Labor force in lamrning, forestry. hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (yearn) - Average number of years of life                        asa percentage o f-total labor force.
remaining ot birth; usually five-year averagesamending in 1960. 1970,                Industry (percan)   Labor force in mining, conetrution.  nanufacturing and
and 19'5.                                                                               electricity, water andl gas as percentage of totsl labor force.
Infant mortality rate (par thouaand   - Annul deaths of infants under                  Particination rate (percent) - total, male. and f male - Total.  male. and
one year of age per thoua and live birhts.                                               femals labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Accase to safe water (percept of pepulation) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are Mhos adjus ted participation  rates reflecting ag.-ue
lomber of peop le (total. urban, snd rurl) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population,  nd long tine trend.
oaf. eWater supply (includes treated eurf ac  waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population coder 15 and 61 and  -rc to
-n-otaninatdwtrsc  as tha   frepotected borsholes, springs,                              the labor force in age finOOp of 15-64 years.
an aiary w tells  as prntagtfr  their raspective populations.
Loan. orbanra    a  public fountain or standp.ot located oot more                   INCOM  DISTRIBUTION
thr 250 eaters from a hous. nay be, comeidsred as being within rea-                  Percentage of private moonms  (both in cas h end hind) race.i-od hy richest 5
..onable aCceaa of that house.  1n rural areas reasonable accses  would                  percent. richest 20 percent. poorest 25 percent,..ad poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or nanbmr of the household do not have to                       of hounsholds.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
woter ... da.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acceaso to exceeta disposal (oercant of population) - total, urban. aud                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ par canitd) - urban and rural-
rural - Nm-ber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                       Absolute poverty intone level iu that income level below which a minimal
disposal  as percentages of their respactive populations.  Excrete                       nutritionally adequate diet plu e.s..entia1 non-food requi-enets in not
diuposul nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                        atffordable.
treatment, of human e-cretr, and waste-water by weter-boros systema                   Estimated  mlreaive poverty incone leve  (Ull Per Capital - urban snd rural-
or the  -o of pit privies and nimilar installations.                                     Relative poverty intone level ie that income level loes  then one-third
Poua2c   e   hysician - population divided by number of practicing                 per capita pers-onal  incom  of the country.
phy-- ar  qualified fro. a medical school at university level.                        getinuted pOoplati.n helow povrty income level (perc-nt) 7 urban ondrural-
Popuutio oa nuringperson - Population divided by number of                           percent of population (urban and rural) uho are either 'ab-olut. poo- or
practicng -ale and f-nle graduate courssa  practical nurses, and                          "r-lative pont" whichever is greater.
asistant nu-e..
Econoic and Socia1 Iota D1iviaon
tco..-Jc Anal ynin sod Pr-)sciaon DeP-rte-P



- 23 -
ANNEX i
IDSICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA ShETT                                                           Page 4 of 5
Preliminary
Actual                              Estimates              pro-jcted           Growth Rates                   As 2 of GDY
1965          1970         1975        1976         1977          1978        1982         1966/70  1971175  1976/82    1965           1975       1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                        Coostont 1972 Prices, 03$ Million
Gross Domestic Prodoct                      26,603.2    36,978.6    48,506.9    49,283.5    50,700.5    54,375.0    75,948.5               6.9     5.6        6.6       99.96       99.1       95.9
Gains from Terms of Tcode                        8.0         88.1        600.5        504.4        456.3        734.8      3,223.6        61.6    50.5       24.9         0.04       0.9        4,1
D etcI  2,1.2    37,066.7    49,187.4    49,787.9    51,156.8    55,110.0    79,[172.1  6.9      5.8       7.0      100.00       100.0     100.0
Cros -leti  Ioor26,611.                                  37,266.7    491817 4    49  79         5    5.                      i)-1:                                                    11       1
Importt (inc-iding NPS)                      2,754.0      3,850.8      5,884.2      4,843.5      4,203.0      5,693.2   1 9,798.7          6.9      8.8       7.6       10.4        1S         12.4
Enports (import tapacity)                    2,489.8      3,090.2      4,147.0      4,050.9      4,107.0      5,421.0    10,147.7          4.4      6.1      13.6         9 9         8.1      12.8
Rssourts Gsp                                   264.2        760.6      1,737.2        792.6         96.0        272.2      - 349.0        23.6    18.0        -           0 5         3.4      -0.4
Co-ompticn                                  22,304.1    30,462.1    40,397.1    40,645.1        42,071.3    44,130.6    61,643.1           6.6      5.7       6.2        81.7        80.9      77.8
Investment                                   4 571.3      7,165.2    10,527.6       9,935.2      9,182.6    11,251.3    17,180.1           9.4      8.0       7.2        15.9        22.5      21.7
Gross Domestic Invinos                       4,872.0      6,404.6      8,790.3      9,142.6      9,086.5    10,979.2    17,529.1            5.6     6.5      10.4        18.3        19.1      22.1
Geoss National Savings                       4,520.0      6,100.4      8,005.8      8,205.9      8,181.9      9,027.2    16,530.9           6.2     5.6      10.9        17.0        16.9      20.9
TRADE IN GOODS AND NFS                                                      Ctrrent Prices, 08$ Mifliocs                                                                        As E of Total
IMPORTSJOTAIL                                   2,073.2      3,416.9      8,636.7      8,241.5      7,582.6      9,825.6    21,822.8         10.5    20.4       14.2       1000        100.0     100.0
Food                                              5.9        74.6        443.0        148.1        270.5        337.8        502.8        66.1    2T8         1.8   , 0.3            -T          2.3
pntroleam  and Products                         26.2         54.2        291.1        279.9        109.1        192.7       -             15.7    40.0        -           1.3         3.4       -
Other Goods                                  1,527.5      2,223.4      5,879.7      5,643.3      5,138.7      6,899.0    16,708.9          7.8    21.5       16.1        73.7       68.1       76.6
Nos-Pactor S_roicen                            513.6      1,064.7      2,022.9      2,170.2      2,064.3      2,396.1      4,611.1        15.7    13.7       12.5        24.8       23.4       21.1
EXPORTS, TOTAL                                    1,964.6      2,745.5     6 1.7              .       7,454.3      9,:66.0    22,614.3          6.9    17.2      20.6       100.0       105.0      100.0
Selected Agric-lt-rol Goods-                   642.4        711.6                   1,220.2      1,414.7      1,375.7      1,861.7         2.1      6.0      10.0        32.7       15.7        8.2
Petroless and Products                          40.1         38.4        460.1        557.0        915.8      1,791.8      9,230.3        -0.9    64.3       53.5         2.0         7.6      40.8
Selected Minerals                              109.7        244.3        457.6        464.3        510.4        558.2      1,008.5         5.2    13.4       12.0        9.7          7.5       4.5
Mlanufactues                                   132.5        326.9      1.0S9.3      1,190.8      1,390.6      1,636.7      3,630.4        19.8    26.8       19.'1        6.7        17.6      16.0
Othe  Good                                     153.9         26.6          63.3        43.8         46.9         52.6         81.1       -29.6    18.9        3.6         7.8         1.0       0.4
No-Fato o ervi..                               806.0      1,397.7      3,077.2      3,294.2      3,175.9      3,951.0      6,802.3        11.6    17.1       12.0       41.0         50.6      30.0
TRADE INDICES                                                                       Average 72_1W
Export Price Soden                              77.7         88.3        169.5        166.4        165.9        199.8        326.6          2.6    13.9       9.8
Inp_et Price Onden                              74.6         85.9        149.8        152.9        160.6        172.7        222.9          2.9    11.8       5.8
Terms of Trade                                 104.2        102.8        113.2        108.B        103.3        115.7        146.6         -0.3     1.9       3.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                                    Constant 1972 PriDes, US$ Millions                                                                      As 7. of Total
Primary                                      3,644.6      4,139.0      4,483.2      4,347.1      4,467.2      4,805.1      5,514.0          2.6     1.6       3.0        19.2        12.7        7.3
Secosdary                                    8,139.9    12,416.9    16,948.2    17,428.6    18,125.1    20,521.1    30,264.1                8.8     6.4       8.6       26.4        30.5       39.8
Tercl_ry                                    14,818.7    205422.7    27,075.5    27,507.8    28,108.2    29,048.8    40,170.4                6.6     5.8       5.8        54.4       56.8       52.9
Tntal (CDP)                                 26,603.2    36,978.6    48,506.9    49,283.5    50,700.5    54,375.0    75,948.5                6.8     5.6       6.6       100.0      100.0      100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES                                                                                                                                              As 7. of GDY
Current Receipts                             3,042.0      5,388.0      9,263.0    10,129.9    10,254.5        8,917.5    16,404.9          12.1    11.4  ,   8.5         11.4        15.0      15.0
Carrenst EDpnditrres                         2,329.0      3,853.2      8,345.3      8,837.3      8,571.2      6,579.4    10.632.8          10.6    16.7       3.5         8.8       12.7        9.8
Public Savings                                 713.0      1,534.8        957.7      1,292.6      1,683.3      2,338.1      5,772.1         16.6    -9.8      30.0        2.7          2.3       5.2
essouroes for Ioves,mct                         76.3      2,201.6        987.1      1,392.1      1,773.8      2,392.5      5,924.0         23.2   -14.8      29.2         2.9        2.4         7.3
Invescment                                   1,741.5      2,279.0      5,234.5      5,103.8      4,375.1      5,220.0      8,202.4          5.5    18.1       6.6/2      6.6          9.1      11.7
Deficit (net)                                  965.2         666.9     4,247.4      2,711.7      2,601.3      2,827.5      2,278.4        -7.1    44.8       .8.5        -3.6       -6.7       -4.4
ALLOCATION OF GEOSS PUBLIC SECTOR                                                                                                                                               ish.  of Total
EXPEODITTORES                                                                                                                                                               1975         1977      1982
Doergy                                        -            -           5,333.1      5,228.8      6,496.6       -            _              _         -         -        27.0        29.0         -
Transports acd Comsooicatio-c                 -            -           1,739.7      1,744.1      1,778.4       -            -              -         _         -         8.8          7.9
Social Welfare                                _            _           4,194.3      4,628.5      4,597.8       -            -              _         _        _         21.3        20.5
Ind-stey                                      -            -           1,629.2      1,521.4      1,578.2       -                                                         8.3         7.0
Agtlculturs                                   -            -           1,964.2      1,469.5      1,623.3                          -          -                           10.0         7.3
Ge--rol Adminlitrotion and DOfecae            -            -           3,269.3      3,811.8      4,910.6       -            -              -         -         -        16.6        71.9
om-srce-                                                               1,521.7      1,221.9      1,329.9       -            -                        -         -          7.7         5.9
Tourism                                       -                           62.8         64.7         73.7       -            -              -         -         -         0.3         0.3
otal                                                       -          19,717.9        19,690.8    22,388.5                  -              -                   -        100.3      100.0
Period A-cea
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                         1966/70   1971i75   1976j82
ICOR                                             2.40         5.66        13.56         7.04         2.50         2.97         2.84        -         -         -           3.34      5.50      3.22
Import Elastirity                                0.75         1.29         0.07       -11.05        -4.60         4.89         1.44        -         -         -           1.01       1.57     1.15
Margina1 Savings  Ratio                         -0.16      -               0.04         0.49        -0.02         0.44         0.19        _         .         -           0.2        1.i3     0.28
V.loe Added Dec Worker (1972 prices)
In  Millions    A. 7. of Total       1960-1970                                    %        Ay-g.
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER W1ORKER               1960    1970    1960        1970     Ticuth Rnte        1960        1970        1960         1970            Grnoth Rate
Agricult-ce                                  5.4      5.1     50.5      39.2          -0.6            608.8       939.0      34.7         33.0                4 4
Induatry                                     2.1      3.0     19.6      23.1           3.6          2,468.9    4,134.9    140.6          145.0                5.3
Services                                     3.2     4.9      29.9      37.7           4.4          3,222.8    4,044.8    183.6          142.0                2.3
TOtal                                       10.7    13.0    1017.0    100.0            2.0          1,755.6    2,847.6    100.0          100.0                5.0
1/ Icclode- sugar.
21  ThiE  Iou rote of groeth in caused by a peak io poblic ic-ratment ic 1975.  Th. projctod rote for 1977-82 Is aboot 13%



-24-
AM=C I
Page 5 of 5
BMLANE OF PAxllmSs. EXUKAL ASSISTAICE ADID D?BT
(0U million at current prices)
Actual                    Preliminary  Estimates                     Pro1 ectt on
1970           1975            1976        1977         1978                    1980          1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                   2,745.4        6,081.5         6,770.3      7,454.1       9,356.0               17,499.0     22,599.8
Imports (including NFS)                   3,416.9        8,636.6         8,241.5      7,582.7       9,825.6               15,008.0     21,822.8
Resource Balance                          - 671.5       -2,555.1        -1,431.2       -128.6        -469b6                2,491.0         777.0
Interest, net -                           - 307.0       -1,266.5        -1,572.6    -1,794.8       4,914.8                -1,979.0     -1,879.2
Direct Investment Income                  - 267.5       -  657.5          -715.5       -480.8        -823.5               -1,072.1     -1,383.9
Workerb' Remittances                         122.7          174.6           193.0       211.3        -231.4                  280.0         338.8
Current Transfers, net                       55.3           123.4          153.0        173.2         190.5                  230.5         279.0
Current Account Balance                  -1,068.0       -4,181.2        -3,413.3    -2,019.7       -2,75810                  -18.9     -1,834.3
Private Direct Investment                   322.8           748.8          588.7        436.5         679.7                  875.4       1,098.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net          258.6       3,565.8         4,264.5      3,937.3       2,350i0                 -580.4       1,404.8
(Disbursemsents)                         (821.3)      (4,418.6)       (5,417.9)   (6,232.3)    (5,985.5)               (4,170.6)    (5,944.7)
(Repayments)                            (.562.7)       (-852.8)      L.1,153.4)  ('2,295.0)   (-3,635.9)              (-4,758.5)   (-4,539.9)
Other Capital                               588.7            31.7        1e1773      -1,883.4         100.0                  200.0       -100.0
(Public Short Term)                      (139.6)        (842.8)         (839.8)    (-950.0)       (-200.0)              (-200.0)      (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                  (449.1)       (-811.1)      (-2,612.8)    (-933.3)        (300'.0)              (400.0)      (-300.0)
Change in Reserves (- = increase)          -102.1         -165.1           333.1       -470.7        -371,6                 -416.2        -568.7
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                     843.0       4.304.9         5.628.8      6.123.3
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                        146.8          310.0           410.0        162.0         -                        -            -
IDA
Other M.Iil.t.r.1112.3                          121.8           171.2        280.0         -                                     -
Governments i     l78.8                                    317.2            270.3       250.0         - I
Govplernmns                                  69.7          115.3             99.5       130.0         ---
Banks and Financial Institutions            435-4          140.3         4,51262        600.0 889
Bonds
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                        EXrTERAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed       3,227.8       11,256.9        15,554.0    19,883.0                               Outstanding and Disbuised
(end of period)                                                                                                           on Dec. 31. 1977
interest on Public Debt                    -227.3         -827.7        -1,075.4    -1,234.0
Repayment on Public Debt                   -496.0         -762.0        -1,217.4    -2,461.7                                  $ Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                    -79.7         -438.8          -497.2       -560.8
Total Debt Service (net)                   -803.0       -2,028.5        -2,790.0    -4,256.5               Publir M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (    2/                                                                               Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                    25.2           25.4            32.9         48.2
b. Total Debt Service                      28.0           32.4            40.1         55.5              IBRD                 1,456.8       7.6
c.  Total Debt Sergice and                                                                               IDB                    772.7       4.0
Direct Investment Income              37,3           42.9            50.3         61.8              Governments           853.5        4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                               Suppliers              335.1        1.7
a.  Interest as 7. of prior                                                                              Bonds               1,821.6        9.6
year's D.O. and D.                     7.8           10.2             9.6          7.9              Other Financial
b.  Amortization as % of prior                                                                            Institutions       13,852.6      72.6
year's D.O. and D.                    17.0            9.4            10.8         15.8              Total              19,883.0      100.0
IBRD Exposure                                                                                                                                 -
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as % of
Public D.O. and D.                     18.0           10.0             7.9          7.7
b.  IBRD Debt Service as 7 of
Public Debt Service                     7.4            9.7             4.5          4.2
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable  or available
I/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of January 31, 1979)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                        1,486.4
793      1972  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 22.0        0.5
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply            90.0       41.8
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                   90.0       47.2
969      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              77.0        6.9
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              47.0      41.7
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0       11.6
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0       43.9
1110      1975  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         110.0       38.7
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              50.0      49.9
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                50.0        9.5
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            40.0      35.5
1205      1976  NAFINSA                     Industry                50.0       12.9
1217      1976  NAFINSA                     Agricultural and
Livestock Credit   125.0         4.6
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0       72.5
1420      1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                42.0       41.7
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0      102.9
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                50.0       50.0
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               47.0       47.0
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture            56.0       56.0
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5      16.5
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry              100.0      100.0
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0       200.0
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             25.0       25.0
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.      60.0       60.0
TOTAL                                            3,128.9   1,116.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               507.4
Total now outstanding                            2,621.5
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        75.2                17.1
Total now held by Bank 1/                        2,604.4
Total Undisbursed                                           1,116.3
1/     Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                              US$ Million
Year           Obligor                  Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/          Industrial Equipment       0.8      --      0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul        0.5              0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/        Twist Drills               0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68      Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.          Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/          Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                  Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --      0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                     Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining               1.5      --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                     12.0      --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                     Pulp and Paper              2/       2/      2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz            Cement                    10.5      --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel        Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.               Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Pouderosa, S.A.  Pulp and Paper                9.0      2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                     Petrochemicals            19.0        -   19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/          Cement                   100.0        -  100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.             Tourism                             2.3    2.3
Total Gross Commitments                             170.5    31.9  202.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         107.3    22.1  129.4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                    63.2      9.8   73.0
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
paticipants.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuataneio Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30. 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of Zihuatanejo
are complete. The international airport at Zihuatanejo is now
being served by 35 flights a week from Mexico City. A new
bilateral air agreement between Mexico and the US was signed
in January 1978 that allows Mexican and US air carriers to
serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities.  A comprehensive
hotel staff training program has been approved by the Bank and
is under implementation.
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Government has
proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the projects be applied to finance new works which would
serve the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. A recommendation on changes in
the project description will be submitted to Executive Directors
shortly.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a change in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 67,000 ha were
planted in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The technical
assistance program and the land settlement program are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation has been greater
than estimated at the time of appraisal, and project costs have
risen to about US$366 million equivalent from the original
estimate of US$208 million. A US$25 million supplemental Bank
loan has been approved July 11, 1978 to help finance the
increase in cost of this project.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially
behind the original schedule; the pace is, however, acceler-
ating as additional budgetary support is being provided.
Project authorities are rephasing project construction and
integrating parts of the project with the neighboring Rio
Fuerte Irrigation District. Project costs have risen from
US$146 million at appraisal to US$560 million because of higher
inflation than projected at appraisal and delays in project
execution. A substantial reduction in project scope has been
approved by the Executive Directors with deferred works to be
included in a later project.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. The Roza Rica airport has been completed and
works in the other five airports are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Budget levels have been inadequate
but were raised in 1979. A reprogramming of the project is
planned during early 1979 to adjust for these delays.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. PIDER management is taking
steps to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of
earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to
improved cost recovery, investment analysis and programming,
monitoring, and rural industries.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been
reduced from $150 million to $50 million to be applied
to the first phase of the project which would be implemented
over four years. A recent mission reviewed the Government's
reprogramming of project investments and a memorandum was
distributed to the Executive Directors to notify them of
the mission's findings.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
Construction delays were encountered early in 1977 due to a
shortage of resources following the peso devaluation, and
the problem was aggravated by changes in the company's



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
management at about the same time. Progress on the
Salamanca project has been slow and culminated in termina-
tion of the main construction contract in March 1978.
Since the appointment of a new contractor in May 1978,
the FERTIMEX construction management organization has been
strengthened, the speed of the work has improved and completion
is now scheduled for July 1979. Construction of the 1,500 TPD
urea plant at Coatzacoalcos is also behind schedule, but work
in this project is now proceeding satisfactorily and is
expected to be completed by February 1980.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. The additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
substantially on schedule and in two others, construction is
expected to begin in ealy 1979.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closin&
Date: December 31. 1979.
The loan is almost fully committed and 75 percent has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978 were US$117.4 million.
The medium-income producers' category is fully disbursed and
priority is being given to accelerating the project component
benefitting low-income farmers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Operating and technical improvements on the railway continue.
The traffic took an upward swing in. 1977, continued to rise
in 1978, and is expected to increase substantially in 1979. As
a result, the operating and working ratios improved significantly



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
in 1977 and 1978 and the outlook for 1979 is even better. Due
to budgetary cuts imposed by the Government in 1976-1977, the
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which revised financial targets and a revised list of goods
have been prepared and substantially accepted by the Bank.
Confirmation by the Government is expected shortly. Due to
delays incurred in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in
late 1980 and a postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1981 has been proposed to the borrowers.
Ln. No. 1420   Baia California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 23, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism are complete and the economic study of
tourism will be completed by June 1979.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER 11;  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule; US$17 million have been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. The first
subloans are being reviewed by the Bank and disbursements should
start soon.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Management of the project has now been integrated with that of
FOGAIN, one of its main components. Training of the first
group of extension agents has started and submission of sub-
projects is expected to start soon.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation is on schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has advanced beyond original expectations.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industial investment financing is proving to be
stronger than anticipated. About one quarter of the loan has
been committed and there are numerous other applications at
hand with FONEI.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan was made effective on January 12, 1979. Implementa-
tion is on schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan was made effective on January 12, 1979. Implementa-
tion is on schedule. See earlier reference to this project
(Ln. No. 969) on page 4 of this Annex.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MEXICO - SECOND FERTILIZER PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about three years
(b) Project prepared by: FERTIMEX, S.A.
(c) First preparation mission: Fall of 1976
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: August 1978.
(e)  Negotiations Completed in:  March 1979.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 1979.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government would carry out a program to promote the use of
NPK and DAP fertilizers in rainfed areas (paragraph 31);
(b)  The Government would take all action to enable FERTDMEX to earn a
financial rate of return of at least 3.5 percent in 1980-82 and
8.0 percent in 1983 and thereafter (paragraph 51);
(c) FERTIMEX would carry out a study of its marketing and product
transportation systems (paragraph 53);
(d) Arrangements would be made by the Borrowers to obtain complementary
long-term loans for the project on terms satisfactory to the Bank
and according to an agreed schedule (paragraph 55);
(e) FERTIMEX would observe specified financial ratios in conducting
its operations (paragraph 60); and
(f) Satisfactory ecological and safety standards would be met in
carrying out and operating the project (paragraph 61).






-'                 -  ~~~~IBRD 13550
*                                                                                                                                    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'N.,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.XI
.       ONDU~~RAS
30'  ,'   0                                       N                                                                                               515                           EL SALVADOR       PANAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L   
U,>                     ~~-                                                                                                                                  *- ~~SRICNA0CRNAL
R ERMOSILLO                                         -                      N                                                                                  T
'~~  CH      HUACHHUAHUAN
'N.     N                                       I                           "HIN U   HU 
N                   ~~~~~Cd C-mt  p
A ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    AO
,..  COAHUILA,-                                                                  ~~~~~~~~MEXICO
NNUEVO        --
c r,                 ~            ~~0             'C7 ATIL' ,OMONTERRLY -                                                              /         LAZARO  CARDENAS  FERTILIZER PROJECT
-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~T-~LEON                                                                           Marketing Regions and Location of Present and
LICAN`~    D  U R A  N  G0 o "                                                                                Future  Fertilizer Plonts
0p LAPAURANro 
I'  0                                IN        vI.E
,~ZACATECAS                   ,' 0
)                                                  I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAMAULIPAS
I~~            SAN
'I ~~~~""I ~~ZACATECAS '            I 
o'    LU 
EXISTING PLANTS                                                                                   ,JLgFmn1 5    ~O SAN LUIS POTOSI                             GulE/f    or                                         .-
o  NAY                   .,.,,,~I                                 -                                                               ..-..,
AMMONIUMR SULFATE                         LAZARO CARDENAS         I                                OA                                                                                                        ElRX
MARKETING REGIOIENN                                                                                 1 /4ex Ic o                            /y   l~A  TA  N
AMMONIUM NITRATE                           MAKTN   EIN4                                      l         GAAUT 
A, UREA                        FERTIMEX  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKETING  REGION  'UAAU         N'
DAP                            ----STATE aOUNDARIES                        .iAII          GAXLJ                                                                                                    I                          0ESE
25'                                                                  CO  .-...,       A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hIDA,GO  C-.~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0   NPK                            - - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              --'I"                                '       'X                                                                    7S 20
O3  SINGLE SUPERPHOSPHATE                                                                                                     )L    I              SCAMPECHEEI
'V        C~~~~~~~~~,.~~~~~-.--.->,    N                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ QUINTANA ROOt
LI  TRIPLE SUPERPHOSPHIATE                                                                                   MRL 
A   AMMONIA                                                                                                             AA1N  3 SOT.A  /OU    '~                                                                          LI
5                     LI/PA V.-''  ~MICHOACANA        MN(E             P~AICES
fUTURE PLANTSCOMA*MR,i                                                                                                                 ER       N                                               CAPC-Ef j
*   AMMONIUM SULFATE                                                                                                                                   D,        ,  kg,        SASC            "'
*  AMMONIUM NITRATE                                   NLAZARC LAG                                                                          .                               GId        LL'AHERMOSA
ZIHUATANEJO                                        ,.   0A  R 
A  UREA                                                                                                             UER     ER 
15                  ~~~~~BE'LIZE
(R  DAP                                                                                                                               '  0   A       X   A   C  A    -------
03  SINGLE SUPERPHOSPHATE                                                                                                  AOAXACA'                                                 TUXTLA GUTIERREZ
o   NPK<                          X      ISO     200     300    40       500                                                                                                    C H      A   P  A  S
9  FPHOSPHIORIC ACID                              KILOMETERS                                                                                                   A-~                                          
AAMMONIA                                                                                                                                                   "S.I.- C-o                                       
Th, mo". tr,prpyrl A, oAstiE,C/Ee C'h Ooe,n,/                                                                                                                        ODURAS
~ilth ,Am tc. epoil h..oi,i  tr.d.... deamten ~eo 



