CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1686 ME
Loan Agreement
(Second Fertilizer Project-Lazaro Cardenas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
and
FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
Dated May 18, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1686 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. and FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrowers).
WHEREAS Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called NAFIN)
and Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A. (hereinafter called FERTIMEX)
have requested the Bank to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter called
the Project) that FERTIMEX will carry out;
WHEREAS NAFIN and FERTIMEX are to obtain long-term loans
from other than the Bank in an aggregate amount not less than the
equivalent of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) for
purposes of assisting in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing to make the loan jointly to
NAFIN and FERTIMEX upon the terms and conditions set forth herein-
after and in a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
United Mexican States and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph 6: "The term 'Borrower' means the
Borrowers, except that as used in paragraphs (a), (c),
(d), (e), (g) and (i) of Section 6.02, paragraphs (c), (e),
(f) and (g) of Section 7.01 and Sections 10.01 and 10.02,
such term means the Borrowers or either of them."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "First
Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Fertilizer Project)
(Loan Number 1112 ME) dated May 22, 1975, between the Bank and the
Borrowers.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowers,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
tile 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) Except as the Borrowers may otherwise request, on or
before each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in
Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other charges
on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth,
and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrowers and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrowers of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-3-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrowers shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrowers shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. All obligations of the Borrowers under the
Loan Agreement, unless such obligations shall have been expressly
undertaken by one of the Borrowers, shall be joint and several and
the obligations of either of them to comply with any provision of
the Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior notice to, demand
upon or action against the other. No extension of time or forbear-
ance given to either of the Borrowers in respect of the perfor-
mance of any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and no
failure of the Bank to give any notice or to make any demand or
protest whatsoever to either of the Borrowers, or strictly to
assert any right or pursue any remedy against either of them in
respect of the Loan Agreement, and no failure by either of the
Borrowers to comply with any requirements of any law, regulation
or order, shall in any way affect or impair any obligation of
either of the Borrowers under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project by FERTIMEX
Section 3.01. FERTIMEX shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist FERTIMEX in carrying out
the design, engineering, procurement, and start-up and initial
operation of the units included in the Project, FERTIMEX shall
employ qualified and experienced engineering consultants accept-
able to the Bank, upon satisfactory terms and conditions.
Section 3.03. (a) FERTIMEX undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to


﻿-4-
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan r-ainst hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by FERTIMEX
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FERTIMEX
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) FERTIMEX shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
reauest.
(b) FERTIMEX: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
related records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between FERTIMEX
and the Bank, FERTIMEX shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its
cost and benefits and on the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. FERTIMEX shall cuse the units included in
the Project to be designed, engineered and erected so as to
ensure that the levels of ecologically harmful discharges will
not exceed generally accepted standards.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of FERTIMEX
Section 4.01. (a) FERTIMEX shall continue at all times to
manage its affairs, carry on its operations, plan the development
of its business and undertaking, and maintain its financial
position, all in accordance with sound industrial, financial and
administrative practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hercof, FERTIMEX shall: (i) continue to operate
and maintain its plant, equipment, properties and facilities, and
shall, from time to time promptly as needed, make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices; and (ii) not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets required for
the efficient carrying out of its business and undertaking,
including the carrying out of the Project, except in the normal
course of its business or with the prior concurrence of the
Bank.
Section 4.02. FERTIMEX shall at all times take all steps
necessary: (i) to maintain its right to carry on its operations,
including the Project; and (ii) to acquire and to retain such
land, properties, and interests thereon, and to acquire, maintain
and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights, as
may be necessary or useful for the construction and operation of
the Project and the conduct of its business and undertaking.
Section 4.03. FERTIMEX shall continue to take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound industrial
insurance practice.
Section 4.04. FERTIMEX shall monitor the levels of ecologi-
cally harmful discharges from the units included in the Project
and shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that they are
operated safely and conform with generally accepted ecological and
environmental standards.
Section 4.05. (a) By August 31, 1980 or such later date
as may be agreeable to FERTIMEX and the Bank, FERTIMEX shall
prepare a study of its fertilizer distribution system, including
its transportation needs.


﻿-6-
(b) Promptly thereafter FERTIMEX shall carry out the
appropriate recommendations of such study.
Section 4.06. (a) By December 31, 1979 or such later date
as may be agreeable to FERTIMEX and the Bank, FERTIMEX shall
revise its operations staff training program for Project implemen-
tation purposes.
(b) Promptly thereafter FERTIMEX shall carry out such
program as revised.
Section 4.07. FERTIMEX shall, from time to time, carry
out studies on the costs and benefits to farmers of the use of
fertilizers and inform the Bank of the results thereof.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. FERTIMEX shall: (i) continue to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition; and (ii) separately, maintain records
adequate to reflect the operations of the units included in the
Pro act.
Section 5.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall: (i) have an annual audit, satisfactory to the
Bank, made of its financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses, and related statements) for each fiscal
year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrowers represent that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of their assets as secu-
rity for any external debt of NAFIN and any debt of FERTIMEX,
except as otherwise disclosed by FERTIME. to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) Each of the Borrowers undertakes that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any of
its respective assets as security as to NAFIN for any external
debt and as to FERTIMEX for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall furnish to the Bank: (a) every three months,
and not later than 60 days after the end of each quarter,
quarterly financial reports reg4rding its operations; and (b)
every year, not later than 90 days after the commencement of each
fiscal year, reports on production and sales of its main products,
and projections of production, income, and cash flow for the
current fiscal year.
Section 5.05. FERTIMEX may make expenditures or commit-
ments for expenditures for fixed or capital assets (including
investments in or loans to other business entities) only to the
extent that such expenditures or commitments for expenditures will
not impair the ability of FERTIMEX to carry out and operate the
Project and to meet its other obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall:
(a) not incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof
the debt/equity ratio of FERTIMEX would exceed 60:40;
(b) after December 31, 1980, not incur any debt in excess
of $10,000,000 equivalent in any fiscal year unless a reasonable
forecast of the FERTIMEX's revenues and expenditures shows that
the projected net revenues of FERTIMEX for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.4 times the projected debt service requirements in such year
on all debt of FERTIMEX, including payments in respect of the debt
to be incurred. For purposes of this paragraph, "a reasonable


﻿-8 -
forecast" means a forecast prepared by FERTIMEX in the fiscal year
in which the debt in question is proposed to be incurred and
reviewed by the Bank which both FERTIMEX and the Bank accept as
reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified FERTIMEX of its
acceptability, provided no event has occurred since the Bank's
acceptance of such forecast which would have a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of
FERTIMEX;
(c) on December 31, 1979 and at all times thereafter
maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3:1.0; and
(d) not pay dividends (other than in shares of FERTIMEX's
capital) or make other cash distributions or financial commitment
not related to FERTIMEX's own internal corporate operations, or
prepay other loans other than the Loan, if after any such payment
or commitment FERTIMEX's current ratio would be less than 1.5:1.0;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to any prepayment of a loan if such prepayment is part of
the refinancing of such loan by another loan on terms and condi-
tions more favorable to FERTIMEX than the loan to be prepaid,
and the new loan is to be withdrawn substantially at the same time
said prepayment is made.
For purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by FERTIMEX matur-
ing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under
a loan contract or agreement, on the date and
to the extent that it is drawn down pursuant to
such loan contract or agreement, and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee is entered into but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(iii) "equity" means the sum of FERTIMEX's unimpaired
paid-in share capital, surplus and reserves not
allocated to cover specific liabilities;
(iv) "net revenue" means gross revenue from all sources
less all operating and administrative expenses,


﻿-9-
and amounts paid on account of taxes; provided that
the operating and administrative expenses shall
not include interest and other charges on debt,
provision for income taxes, and provision for
depreciation of assets;
(v) "current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months less the reserve for
bad debts, inventories, pre-paid expenses and all
other assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into
cash;
(vi) "current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income
taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other liabilities
due and payable, or which could be called for
payment, within twelve months;
(vii) "current ratio" means the ratio of current assets
to current liabilities; and
(viii) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor debt payments
in another currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing official rate of exchange as
determined by the relevant authorities of the
Guarantor.
Section 5.07. (a) NAFIN shall charge FERTIMEX and collect
from it, and FERTIMEX shall pay to NAFIN, a fee of three per
cent (3.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
(b) NAFIN and FERTIMEX her .y undertake to make contractual
arrangements for the purpose of charging and paying, respectively,
the fee referred to in paragraph (a) hereof.
Section 5.08. FERTIMEX shall revalue its fixed assets
in service at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with
generally accepted revaluation and accounting principles and
procedures.
Section 5.09. The Borrowers shall obtain long-term loans
for purposes of assisting FERTIMEX in financing the Project in an
aggregate amount of not less than the equivalent of one hundred


﻿- 10 -
million dollars (US$100,000,000) upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrowers and, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, in accordance with the following schedule: not
less than the equivalent of thirty million dollars (US$30,000,000)
by September 1, 1979; not less than the equivalent of forty-five
million dollars (US$45,000,000) by March 1, 1980; and not less
than the equivalent of twenty-five million dollars (US$25,000,000)
by March 1, 1981.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, a change shall have been made in
the Estatutos of FERTIMEX which, in the Bank's judgement, shall
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or
the conduct of FERTIMEX's operations or its financial condition.
For purposes of this Section, "Estatutos" means those set forth in
the Escritura 13,457 executed in the presence of Notary Manuel
Borja Soriano on July 17, 1943, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, the event specified in Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of First Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. Section 5.06 of the First Loan Agreement
is deleted and Section 5.06 of this Agreement is substituted
therefore.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all necessary acts, consents


﻿- 11 -
and approvals to be performed or given by the Guarantor, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any poli-
tical subdivision or by FERTIMEX or otherwise to be performed or
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to
enable the Guarantor and the Borrowers to perform all of the
respective covenants, agreements and obligations of the Guarantor,
and the Borrowers in the Guarantee Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment contained, together with all necessary powers and rights
in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or
given and no other such acts, consents and approvals are required
to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 8.02. The date August 20, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bak:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrowers:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Cable address:                     Telex:
NAFIN                              383-1775765
Mexico City


﻿- 12 -
Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
Morena 804
Mexico 12, D.F.
Telex:
383-1771292
383-1771136
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ Jorge Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative
FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
By /s/ David Gustavo Gutierrez Ruiz
Authorized Reprosentative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Engineering, licenses,          7,700,000       100% of for-
supervision and                                eiLn expendi-
start-up assistance                            tures
(2) Equipment and mate-            33,500,000
rials procured under
Part A of Schedule
4 to this Agreement:
(a) imported                                   100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                              100% of ex-
factured                                  factory cost
(3) Imported proprietary,          26,000,000       100% of for-
critical and small                             eign expendi-
items                                          tures
(4) Interest and other             12,200,000      Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
April 1, 1982
(5) Unallocated                       600,000
TOTAL          80,000,000


﻿- 14-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrowers,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $8,600,000 may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made before that date but after October 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrowers: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6. If the Bank shall, after consulting with the Borrowers
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without


﻿- 15 -
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrowers, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   the design, engineering and construction of the follow-
ing units at Lazaro Cardenas:
1.   a diammonium phosphate unit with a production capacity
of about 275,000 tons per year;
2.   a compound fertilizer unit with a production capacity
of about 250,000 tons per year;
3.   a solid ammonium nitrate unit with a production capa-
city of about 270,000 tons per year;
4.   a sulfuric acid unit with a production capacity of
about 660,000 tons per year;
5.   a phosphoric 2cid unit with a production capacity of
about 198,000 tons per year; and
6.   a nitric acid unit with a production capacity of about
215,000 tons per year;
all such units to include facilities adequate to protect the
environment from potentially harmful effects of their operation.
Part B:   Construction of the necessary infrastructure for the
adequate operation of the units included in Part A
above, including construction of road and rail exten-
sions to the site of such units and of a berth at
the port of Lazaro Cardenas.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 1982,
and will be deemed to be completed only when the units listed
above have been in satisfactory operation for not less than
90 consecutive days at a production rate of not less than 80%
of rated capacity.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
DaLe Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1993                  3,635,000
On April, 1, 1994                               3,665,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                7.00%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, FERTIMEX shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. FERTIMEX shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to t- procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to FERTIMEX of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   Account will be taken of the availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts in the territory of the Guarantor
for imported goods.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of FERTIMEX and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Mexico.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to 'e imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, -nd if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%


﻿- 21 -
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts (a) for small items costing each less than $100,000
equivalent; and (b) for proprietary, or critical items, may
be procured through prudent international shopping, provided,
however, that the aggregate cost of small items so procured does
not exceed $16,000,000 equivalent and the aggregate cost of
proprietary and critical items so procured does not exceed
$10,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, FERTIMEX shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request
in consultation with FERTIMEX. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Bids shall be opened publicly and FERTIMEX shall,
promptly after bid opening, inform the Bank of the names of
the bidders and the amount of each bid.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, FERTIMEX
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 22 -
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform FERTIMEX and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
FERTIMEX shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform FERTIMEX and state the reasons for such determination.


