 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14847

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 11/25/2015

               Country: Cote d'Ivoire
             Project ID: P111290                                                  Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Ivory Coast Protected       Project Costs (US$M):                     2.54                2.34
                         Area Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      2.54                2.34
      Sector Board:       Environment                Cofinancing (US$M):                         -                   -

           Cofinanciers: -                            Board Approval Date :                                  04/30/2009
                                                                Closing Date:             11/30/2013         12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Public administration- Agriculture; fishing and forestry (50%); Forestry (50%)
         Theme(s):        Biodiversity (60%); Environmental policies and institutions (30%); Participation and civic
                          engagement (10%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Keith Robert A. Oblitas   John R. Eriksson        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

To Improve the sustainable management of the fauna and habitat of Comoe National Park .
(Source: Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement, July 21. 2009)

(The PAD has identical wording)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

The Protected Area Project’s (PARC) components were:

1. Institutional, Financial and Technical strengthening for protected area management and oversight (Estimated GEF
project costs at appraisal: US$1.02 million; actual GEF project costs at completion: US$ 0.89).

(a)      Capacity building through training and equipment for the Office Ivoirien des Parcs et Reserves (OIPR) in the
north-east of the country (which contains the Comoe National Park). Staff would be trained in participatory
conservation methods, technical knowledge, procurement and financial management; and
(b)      Support to the development and operations of the Fondation Parcs et Reserves de la Cote d’Ivoire (FPRCI),
an autonomous Foundation legally independent from Government, to be in charge of raising funds for the national
parks. Training was in fundraising, financial and asset management, and communications.

2. Management planning and implementation for the Comoe National Park.
(Estimated GEF project costs at appraisal: US$1.0 million; actual GEF project costs at completion (US$0.73 million).
Updating and implementing the Comoe Park Management Plan, including training, participatory involvement of
communities in Plan preparation and implementation; and biodiversity Impact Monitoring by OIPR staff and
communities using air as well as ground transects to identify poachers and animal concentrations.

3. Support to Park communities
(Estimated GEF project costs at appraisal: US$0.27 million; actual GEF project costs at completion: US$0.18 million).

Support to the park fringe communities through awareness campaigns, biodiversity training, and land management
contracts.

4. Project Management and Results Monitoring
Estimated GEF project costs at appraisal: US$0.25 million; actual GEF project costs at completion: US$0.37).

Recruitment and retention of a project manager, procurement specialist, and an accountant. Some OIPR staff,
including an M&E specialist, would join the team funded by Government.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Costs and Financing. Total project costs (GEF financing only as the ICR does not provide costs by component for
other sources) were estimated at appraisal as $2.54 million, and actual costs at completion of the Protected Area
Project (PARC) were $2.34 million, 92 percent of the appraisal estimate. The GEF Grant was for $2.54 million, of
which $2.34 million was disbursed. Government’s contribution (for recurrent costs and salaries) was planned to be
$7.6 million, but actual expenditures were $5.17 million.

A number of development agencies, while not in formal parallel financing with GEF, provided funds or financed
activities related to PARC's objectives. German aid from GTZ and KfW totalling $15.9 million, primarily funded
capitalization of the Endowment Funds (section 4) set up for Comoe, and later for Tai National Park, and also
supported some conservation activities. The World Wildlife Fund separately financed activities related to project
objectives or broader park management issues, providing a contribution of $3.1 million. Japan financed with $2.62
million their own activities associated with Cote d'Ivoire's forest conservation program. The International Union for
Conservation of Nature provided about $70,000 financing for training and the updating of the Comoe National Park
Management Plan. An intended contribution from the Wild Chimpanzee Foundation did not materialize.

PARC was also to be supported by the IDA financed Rural Land Management and Community Infrastructure
Development Project which was to finance the project’s alternative livelihood micro-projects through earmarked
parallel IDA financing of $1.2 million. But this became unavailable as the project was closed early (Section 3b).

Project Duration and Restructuring. The project was approved on April 30, 2009 and was intended to close on
November 30, 2013, an implementation period of 4 ½ years. Actual closure was on December 31, 2014, following a
13 month extension. This was provided to compensate for implementation breaks during post-conflict interruptions in
2011, and to make up for delays in 2013 due to late provision of the treasury budget.. The extension was part of a
restructuring of the project which included reallocation between disbursement categories, and significant adjustment
of the Monitorable Indicators, primarily to substitute some indicators (which were seen as unmeasurable or providing
little information), by more defined indicators without changing their respective monitoring intentions.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Cote d’Ivoire has the highest level of biodiversity in West Africa and the largest intact ecosystems of Guinean forest
and Sudanian savanna. Protecting Cote d’Ivoire’s habitat, and flora and fauna is thus a strategically important need
for the Global Environment, for Cote d’Ivoire, and as an international ecological treasure. Yet inadequate funding for
protection of Cote d’Ivoire’s eight national Parks (where most of the nation’s protected species are found) left these
resources vulnerable to poaching, farming, cattle grazing and human settlement.

The need for protective action has been recognized for some time. The Bank and other partners had been engaged
with Government since 1995, and this had led to issuance by Government in 2000 of a National Protected Area
Management Program. In 2002 a new law allowed for creation of the Office Ivoirien des Parcs et Reserves (OIPR), to
be in charge of the nation’s parks and reserves. And in 2003, the Fondation Parcs et Reserves de la Cote d’Ivoire
(FPRCI), an independent foundation which was to be in charge of raising funds for the parks and reserves. Protected
area preservation also falls within the Bank’s general strategy.
The project was consistent with the broader tenets of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (FY08-09), in particular the
Note’s emphasis on livelihood support and provision of basic services. The Country Partnership Strategy was at
concept stage in mid-2015, before issuance of the ICR. but the ICR advises that the framework, amongst other
thrusts, emphasizes inclusive growth, human capital, and a greater strategic role for Cote d’Ivoire in regional
development. Thus, the project tackled an urgent ecological need, which was well recognized by both Government
and the Bank. PARC’s Relevance of Objectives was High.

b. Relevance of Design:

In most key institutional and technical areas, PARC’s design was well suited to achieving its objectives. The project
was a balanced combination of institutional and human capacity development with particularly strong community
involvement in villages proximate to the Comoe National Park. Villagers were to be involved in monitoring against
poaching and cattle herding, the two most direct threats to the Park’s ecosystem and biodiversity. Contracts for
monitoring and other park maintenance activities would be awarded to villagers, and there was also provision for
welfare improving micro-projects providing incomes and alternative employment for the villagers. Design restricted the
project to one park (although this was by far the largest of Cote d’Ivoire’s national parks), which was appropriate given
that the project’s park management approach would be piloting much that was new to the country, and it would be
best to test the approach with focused effort before expanding. The institutional arrangements - (i) using the existing
government agency for park management (OIPR) as the base institution; (ii) building capacity of a private foundation
(FPRCI) responsible for raising funds for park management; and (iii) creating a small project coordination unit to
orchestrate project activities including a Framework Agreement between OIPR and FPRCI - proved to be workable.
Also, the decentralization of park management responsibilities to the relevant regional administration of OIPR and a
field-based project coordination unit, provided for a more hands-on implementation.

There were nevertheless some weaknesses. First, PARC’s financing plan relied for one component – the alternative
livelihoods micro-projects, an important element in the community involvement strategy – on financing by another
Bank project – the Rural Land Management and Community Infrastructure Development Project. This project
performed unsatisfactorily and closed early, leaving a financing void. Reliance upon another project to finance a key
project component was a risky strategy. And second, there were inconsistencies in the Results Framework and
between the framework and the design of M&E. Also, monitorable Indicators were in some cases impractical to
measure, and in others had limited informative value (section 10). PARC’s Relevance of Design was Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The ultimate success of PARC’s objective to improve the sustainable management of the fauna and habitat in Comoe
National Park can be assessed from changes in bio-indicators and in the financial and management capacity of the
institutions involved.

As concerns bio-indicators, the primary data sources are aerial surveys done in 2010 and 2014, and transect
monitoring (observations along lines through different parts of the park for prevalence of a species or action). Data
reported from surveillance patrols was also used. Measurements were used to create and compare changes over time
such as frequency of poaching, changes in livestock numbers, and population density of bio-species.

Changes in fauna and habitat are limited at this stage. Most directly, they comprise measured increases in the
populations in the park of three bio-indicator species. Results vary considerably: The Hartebeest population grew by
40 percent, and the Kob population increased by 130 percent. But Buffalo declined by 13 percent. These results are
not unanimously conclusive but increases in wild mammals would be consistent with other indicators. Another direct
result was the almost total elimination of livestock grazing in the park - using transect monitoring, detected presence
of livestock was found to be 28 “indices” (observations) per 10 km at the beginning of the project and fell to 0.3 indices
by closure. Another important change was in the incidences of poaching, which fell by 74 percent.

Although no “controls” are available, PARC activities can be expected to have been the dominant influence on the
changes above – Influencing factors included increased OIPR staffing and improved technologies, improved
surveillance, village awareness campaigns, community engagement in planning, and management, improved
equipment and infrastructure, and strong support from local government and traditional authorities. Some 125
communities (against a target of 70) had at least some engagement in park activities. There was some paid work as
well in opening and maintaining surveillance tracks. Most of these activities reached or exceeded targeted
achievements. The percentage area of the park that came under surveillance (zero at project commencement)
reached 80 percent, compared with the targeted percentage of 70 percent.

Financially and managerially. Comoe National Park is much improved. The most dramatic development was the major
capitalization of FPRCI due in particular to strong performance in soliciting contributions from development agencies.
The target for funds mobilized was $3.5 million. Actual funds raised were $41.2 million, 12 times the target. More
generally, management of both OIPR and FPRCI was strengthened through implementing the project, supported by
an intensive training program. Training in participatory park management was provided to 24 OIPR staff (the target
was 26), and provision of 25 training modules for 122 staff (number as targeted) including staff from other OIPR
zones.

The most comprehensive measure of the effectiveness of Comoe National Park’s management is the Management
Effectiveness Tracking Tool (METT) - GEF’s standard multi-criteria rating system. The METT showed improvements
in law enforcement, demarcation, participatory planning, biomonitoring, research, awareness training, and community
engagement. Comoe Park’s METT score reached 70, as targeted, from a baseline situation estimated retroactively at
35.

As referred to earlier, one intended project activity – financing micro-projects to enhance livelihoods in villages around
the Park - failed. The intention was to augment incentives for villagers to support the project, but the decision to have
this sub-component financed by another project, which was then closed early due to poor performance, left the
sub-project without finance. Alternative financing was not found and OIPR was only able to do three pilot sub-projects.
At project completion, the French development agency, AFD, agreed to take up the livelihoods program.

Summary of Efficacy

Taking the project overall, notwithstanding some shortfalls, the project achieved its objectives. Comoe National Park
management improved considerably, and first results show increased presence of several bio-indicator species,
virtual elimination of cattle grazing, and reduced threat from poachers. The improved technical capabilities of OIPR
field and managerial staff, improved management in both OIPR and FPRCI, and the financial strength being created
by FPRCI’s capitalization, provide good prospects for the sustainable management of fauna and habitat in Cote
d’Ivoire’s largest park. PARC’s Efficacy was Substantial.

5. Efficiency:

An economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal or in the ICR. The ICR uggests that the institutional,
environmental, and capacity building long-term benefits would be difficult to quantify. Hence, efficiency was assessed
through cost-effectiveness measures. The project met most implementation targets while project costs were 8 percent
less than appraisal estimates. And funds raised by FPRCI were over 10 times the appraisal targets.

The ICR contains a commentary that Comoe National Park’s management costs are significantly lower than average
costs of other protected areas in Africa, but the calculation and comparative data supporting this comment is not clear.
Nevertheless, low cost operations for the Comoe Park are likely, based on its operational approach, amongst these:
(i) use of low-cost community based contracts for O&M, biomonitoring and patrolling; (ii) use of NGOs for awareness
campaigns; (iii) limited physical infrastructure; (iv) primary use of OIPR staff rather than consultants; (v) field-based
training to reduce transport costs; and (vi) for patrolling, complementary use of personnel from other sources (army,
former rebels). The one significant inefficiency was the 13 month extension of the original 4 ½ year project period. But
a 5 ½ year project period could be considered not an excessive duration given that the project had to introduce a new,
participatory form of park management without prior experience; and that there were post-election security related
interruptions in implementation during 2011. The Efficiency of PARC was Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The Protected Area Project’s objectives were Highly relevant as it tackled the rapid degeneration of biodiversity in
Cote d’Ivoire – the country with the highest biodiversity in West Africa. PARC was at the forefront of Cote d’Ivoire’s
strategy to halt the degeneration of its national parks and reserves. The project’s design could have been better in
some respects, notably in its reliance on another project, which closed early, for financing of one of its components –
livelihood micro-projects. Relevance of Design was Modest. Nevertheless, the project achieved its principal focus to
develop a new approach to Park management, and was innovative in the type of community involvement and in the
establishment of an effective institution to collect funds for future management. The new approach was efficient as
investment and recurrent costs of the park were low. Both PARC’s Efficacy and Efficiency were Substantial. The
overall Outcome of the project was Satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The two main uncertainties relate to continued funding of Comoe National Park’s recurrent costs, and the continuation
of the community engagement strategy. Continued availability of funds for managing the Park appears likely. For the
present, Government is funding operating costs through a regular budget line. But as FPRCI’s endowment builds,
financing options through the Foundation’s interest earnings will increase. For 2015, FPRCI is expected to provide for
recurrent expenditures, amounts of US$ 600,000 to Comoe National Park and US$ 800,000 to another park – Tai
National Park - from endowment fund investments. Thus, funding from FPRCI’s endowment is feasible, and funds
from user fees may also be possible. Moreover, FPRCI's revenues will become larger over time, but this could be
eroded if FPRCI is expected to finance recurrent costs in other parks and reserves before its capital base has
sufficiently developed.

Concerning the community engagement strategy, ongoing initiatives – such as the commencement of the
micro-project program funded through French development aid - will tend to strengthen the program – but the strategy
as a whole will need continued policy support. This is likely as communities have been supportive in Park
management. They would advocate for continued Government support, and such pressures could be sufficient for
maintaining OIPR’s community involvement services.

Both the continuation of funding and of community involvement for the Comoe National Park are achievable and
within OIPR’s and FPRCI’s capabilities; and FPRCI’s financial strength should grow over time. PARC’s Risk to
Development Outcome is Moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project was well designed in its overall structure, and the technical quality of its design details was good,
reflecting both the Bank’s long engagement with Government in environmental conservation (since 1995), and a
team skilled in the specializations required for biodiversity and park management. A short preparation period (5
months between the Concept Review and Board Approval) may have contributed to inconsistencies between the
results framework and the design of M&E – some monitorable indicators were not clear or not measurable. Also,
an external evaluation survey concluded that there had been insufficient local level consultation with social
groups, local authorities and government (ICR page 21). This appears, however, to have not unduly affected the
generally successful engagement and contracting with local communities for park maintenance and surveillance
that the project experienced. The main preparation shortfall was the decision to fund the other aspect of
community outreach – the community micro-project livelihood program – through another project, which was
subsequently terminated leaving the livelihood program unfunded. Reliance on another project was an avoidable
risk. However, strong technical preparation formed a platform for a largely successful project implementation, and
PARC's Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision was regular, with missions about every 6 to 9 months, and the team contained the technical
specializations to guide a project introducing relatively new concepts and activities (the last TTL was, for instance,
a specialist in park management). At the beginning of the project a fiduciary team provided intensive financial
management and procurement support to the project implementers. The Mid-Term-Review was a particularly
thorough exercise, setting the project up for accelerated implementation and higher quality execution. The overall
quality of Bank Supervision was Satisfactory.
   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government had developed a workable strategy for preserving the ecology and biodiversity of Cote d’Ivoire’s
protected areas and reserves, and had established FPRCI as the foundation for mobilizing external funds for
funding the operational and maintenance costs of the park. Government also helped resolve OIPR staffing
shortages through assisting OIPR in hiring of forestry interns and former rebels for surveillance. On the other
hand, provision of counterpart funds was below planned amounts, necessitating stringent cost cutting by OIPR.
Thus, Government provided $ 5.2 million to OIPR and FPRCI combined over the project period, but this was about
30 percent lower than the planned amount at appraisal of $7.6 million. The ICR (page 9) comments that the
shortfall "impacted at times the scale of surveillance operations in the Comoe Natiional Park but OIPR managed to
overcome generally these challenges by adjustments in planning and securing additional support." The shortfall in
Government counterpart funds was also contrary to a covenant in PARC's Grant Agreement where Government
committed to provide $1.76 million annually to OIPR. Nevertheless, given that the project was implemented
despite these financial constraints (although the principal credit for operating within the constraints was OIPR, and
its accessing of other funding sources), and that in other respects Government was mostly effective in its support
to OIPR and FPRCI, Government Performance is rated in the satisfactory range at Moderately Satisfactory.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

OIPR’s performance was Satisfactory. It progressively improved its performance over the project period, and
provided effective support. Financial management and procurement were in general satisfactory, and were
eventually mainstreamed into OIPR’s overall operations. There were no safeguard issues. The agency was
flexible and adaptable in learning from its experience and in facing new situations. This included OIPR's finding
solutions to the counterpart funds shortfall, through cost-cutting or soliciting funds from the donor community.
Despite such constraints, OIPR succeeded in attaining or surpassing it's project targets.

FPRCI’s performance was Highly Satisfactory. It operated as intended, there were no fiduciary or procurement
issues, and fund raising greatly exceeded expectations. The Foundation could assume over time a greater role in
management of the country’s parks, as already being done for the Tai Park.

OIPR's generally satisfactory performance and the particularly strong performance of FPRCI lead in combination
to an Implementing Agencies Performance of Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

M&E was to be implemented by OIPR through a park-based unit, and the M&E director based in Abidjan. The unit
would also be informed by data from OIPR’s and FPRCI’s technical and management staff. The Information to be
monitored was aligned both to routine reporting for management information purposes, and information designed to
assess the project’s progress and results from a more qualitative perspective. The Monitorable Indicators were
extensive –nearly 20 – and ranged from bio-indicators such as trends in abundance of indicator species, to GEF’s
METT tracking tool for park management effectiveness. However, not all of the Results Framework was covered by
the M&E system, and there were several cases where an indicator was not clear or not measurable. (At
Mid-Term-Review most of these were replaced by more measurable indicators),

b. M&E Implementation:

The capacity and quality of M&E developed over time through accumulating experience as the work program
developed. The restructuring at Mid-Term-Review included a thorough re-assessment of the Monitorable Indicators.
About half of the Indicators were either revised, dropped, or replaced by a more measurable indicator. Monitoring
included more complex measures such as bio-monitoring and assessing the quality of park management.

c. M&E Utilization:

MIS type data proved a useful management tool for following project progress. Technical and qualitative monitoring,
developing over time, has informed project evaluation and decision making for future protected area projects. The
project’s M&E system has been adopted by OIPR for all of its parks. And the M&E approach has been adopted by
Germany’s GTZ, and by UNESCO.

In summary, the quality of M&E has improved over time, but not without deficiencies in a number of areas: In
particular, there was a partial mis-match between the Results Framework, the monitorable indicators and M&E data
collected; and the M&E Manual was issued late. Quality of M&E was Modest

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

PARC was a Category B project and triggered two safeguards: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). An Environmental and Social Impact Analysis and a Resettlement Policy
Framework were prepared during project preparation. Both environmental and social safeguards were complied with.
This included preparation of an environmental management implementation manual and training of staff in
environmental screening and management for park roads and buildings. No resettlement actions were required.
Participatory management and engagement of communities were consistent with guidelines in the Participatory Policy
Framework.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management

Financial reporting was regular and of acceptable quality. Audits were unqualified except for one, which commented
on irregularities in reporting dates for evaluation of some goods and services that had been procured with counterpart
funds (this was later explained and justified by the PCU). The Bank provided training and technical support to OIPR
and FPRCI in both financial management and procurement.

Procurement

Procurement followed Bank procurement policy and there is no evidence of deviation from standard procedures. In
most cases procurement targets were started and completed within the planned timeframe, but there were several
inefficiencies. First, due to the perceived risk of procurement in a project involving multiple and field-based partners
such as NGOs and community associations, the Bank had required a large proportion of procurement to be subject to
prior review. This proved cumbersome for the borrower and Bank alike. Second, the location of procurement staff was
never fully satisfactory. The first arrangement was to have procurement staff based in the field, but this was found to
be inefficient and remote from supervision and training. Procurement and financial management was then transferred
to Abidjan, but this caused delays due to the distance involved for signing. Finally, use of the Procurement Cycle
Tracking System was cumbersome and also contributed to delays. Nevertheless, by PARC's completion, some 92
percent of the GEF grant had been disbursed, and most project targets had been met, indicating that the procurement
system had been at least somewhat effective.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          Shortfalls in Government's provision of
                                                            Satisfactory        counterpart funding, caused operational
                                                                                constraints and at times reduced
                                                                                surveillance activities.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The project's experience yields the following lessons of wider applicability (lessons 1 to 3 are from the ICR):

1. Dependence on a separate funding source for financing a key activity presents risks .
For example, in the case of PARC’s sub-component for developing community micro-projects to improve livelihoods
and enhance incentives for park protection, financing was to be provided by another Bank project.. This project was
terminated due to bad performance, leaving the micro-projects without a funding source. Financing as a component
within PARC would have provided a safer source of funds for the micro-projects.

2. The success of community engagement was enabled through a multi -faceted approach.
The project involved multiple ways to engage communities in changing damaging practices to proactive
management of the park. These included: awareness raising, co-opting local authorities such as local politicians
and traditional village leaders, and contracting villagers for park maintenance and surveillance; and, in the original
design, village livelihoods micro-projects. Sufficient ownership was achieved to influence a radical reduction in
cattle grazing and significantly reduce poaching. Further, this multifaceted program to engage communities in park
management and maintenance was still able to succeed without the livelihoods micro-projects, a standard element
of many park management projects.

3. In a post-conflict situation , to the extent feasible within the time pressures present , a detailed situational and
risk analysis, and extensive consultation with stakeholders are important bases for project preparation . The
five-month preparation period left little time for more than rapid assessments and limited consultation. A lengthier
preparation period would have provided more opportunity for consultations with communities and donors, assessing
baselines and targets for monitorable indicators, learning from past project experience, and tailoring the design for
more expeditious project implementation.

4. Collecting funds through a dedicated non -Governmental Foundation can be a successful way of generating
funds for the management of parks or similar environmental projects ..
The Foundation for Parks and Reserves of Cote d’Ivoire (FPRCI), a private foundation dedicated to collecting funds
for maintaining the Parks, attracted far greater financing than anticipated – well over the needs of Comoe Park.
5. A project’s logical framework , design, monitorable indicators and M &E need close linkage .
There were some gaps in the linkages, until the Mid-Term-Review which revised about a third of the Indicators, and
part of the M&E program.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No

Why?     As part of a review of several protected area management projects to compare different approaches to park
management and features conducive to success or failure, thereby deriving lessons from the diversity of experience
between the projects examined.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The report is strong in it's informative, thoughtful, and generally well organized review, and is candid in discussion of
issues. Material in the annexes - such as the time sequenced maps showing the changing densities of livestock,
bio-indicator mammals, and human activity over time; the beneficiary survey results; and Government funding by year
of FPRCI and OIPR - add to the understanding of ecological and financial changes over time.

There are several areas where the report could have been strengthened: (i) The Efficacy section (pages 15 to 18)
could have been better structured around the two core elements of the project objectives – the sustainable
management of the park; and the impact of this on the park’s biodiversity. Much of the present “outcome’ discussion
could fit readily into the former, but the impact on biodiversity (or prospects for biodiversity) could have been
expanded and consolidated by drawing together the various data leading to protection of biodiversity; (ii) the
apparently very favorable comparison of management costs in Comoe with the higher average costs in other parks is
reduced in value as the calculation is not entirely clear; and (iii) the lessons section could have been expanded to
include, for instance, the basis for FPCRI’s success, and the aspects of community involvement that were particularly
significant to effective park management. Notwithstanding, in most respects, the analysis and discussion in the ICR
form a persuasive diagnostic, and, overall, the Quality of the ICR is Satisfactory.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
