Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14686
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT (SDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3206-CM)
JUNE 16, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its con.ents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = CFAF*
(Average CFAF per US$)
1989       1990        1991        1992        1993        1994
334        280         305         260         288         542
* The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF1 to
CFAF50 until January 12, 1994 and CFAFIOO since that date. The French franc is
currently floating.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AIDS         Acquired lmmuno-Deficiency Syndrome
ARPP         Annual Review of Portfolio Performance
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CFA          Communaufe- Financiere d'Afrique
CFAF         CFA Franc
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CTC/DSA    Comite Technique de Coordination du Projet Dimensions Sociales de
/ 'Ajustement
DAIR         Division d'Assistance a l'Insertion et a la Reinsertion
ECAM         Enquete Camerounaise Aupres des Menages
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
FNE          Fonds National pour I'Emploi
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ISMP         InstitutS Sup&rieur de Management Public
MCH          Maternal and Child Health
MESIRES    Ministere de I 'Enseignement Superieur, de l 'Informatique, et de la
Recherche Scientifique
MINASCOF  Ministere des AJfaires Sociales et de la Condition Feminine
MINEDUC   Ministere de l'Education Nationale
MINPAT       Ministere du Plan et de l 'Amenagement du Territoire
MINSANTE  Minisl&re de l Santa
MTPS         Ministere du Travail et de la Prevoyance Sociale
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAS          Programme d'Adjustement Structurel (Structural Adjustment Program)
PRODEC       Programme de Developpement Communautaire
PSU          Programme Social d 'Urgence
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
STD          Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
UPP          Unite de Planification de la Population
USAID        United States Agency for International Develooment
WID          Women in Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloscd without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT (SDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3206 CM)
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................................................                                                                 i
1. INTRODUCTION ......................................................................                                                                     1
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................................                                          2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................................                                                        4
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                                                     .          .     5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................                                                          7
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE .......................................................................                                                               8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................................                                                             9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................................................                                                          10
H. FUTURE OPERATION ....................................................................... 10
I. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................................                                                           11
2. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................................................................                                                            12
TABLE  1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ......................................................................                                                 12
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ......................................................................                                             15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ......................................................................                                                        16
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS - CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ '000) ............................. 16
TABLE 5:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................... 17
TABLE 6:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................                                   ............................... I 8
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN  PROJECT ......................................................................                                            20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (PORTION FINANCED BY IBRD, MILLION OF US DOLLARS) .............................. 21
TABLE 8B:  PROJECT FINANCING ......................................................................                                                      20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ......................................................................                                            22
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................................................                                             23
TABLE  11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................................... 27
TABLE  12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS ......................................................................                                          27
TABLE  13A:  BANK  RESOURCES - MISSIONS ......................................................................                                           28
TABLE  13B:  BANK  RESOURCES - SUPERVISION  MISSIONS ......................................................................                                27
APPENDIXES:
A. MISSION' S PROCES-VERBAL
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
I) EVALUATION REPORT OF THE SDA PROJECT
2) EVALUATION REPORT OF THE NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT FUND
3) ENGLISH SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT' S EVALUATION
C. CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY' S EVALUATION OF THE SDA PROJECT
D. MISCELLANEOUS APPENDIXES
1) PROJECT COSTS (EXTRACT FROM STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT)
2) FINANCING OF THE SDA PROJECT (EXTRACT FROM STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT)
E. MAP






Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Republic of Cameroon
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Project
(Ln. 3206 CM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) Project in Cameroon, for which Ln. 3206 CM in the amount of
US$21.5 million equivalent was approved in May 1990, signed on August 3, 1990 and
made effective on January 30, 1991.
2.    The loan was closed on June 7, 1994, instead of the original closing date of
December 31, 1997. Disbursements were frequently suspended and were not therefore
made on schedule. The final disbursement took place on June 7, 1994, at which time a
balance of US$17,562,197 was canceled. Even though nine donors pledged cofinancing
for the project, funds were only provided by four: the African Development Bank (AfDB),
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the Governments of Canada and
Japan.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Regina Amadi, Consultant, under the guidance of
Nadine Poupart, Task Manager (AF3PH), and reviewed by David Berk, Division Chief
(AF3PH), P. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser, and Elaine Hubert, Acting Operations
Adviser (AF3DR). The Borrower and the Government of Canada provided comments
that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the completion mission (November 16 -
26, 1994). It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower's progress reports, Bank supervision reports, internal Bank
memoranda, interviews with Bank staff involved in the project, correspondence and
minutes of discussions between the Bank and the Cameroonian Government, the
completion mission findings, and interviews with donors. The Borrower participated in
the preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the completion mission's
Aide-Memoire, by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT (SDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3206 CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Although the Bank has financed 75 operations in Cameroon, social sectors have to
date benefited from less than 6 percent of the total commitments of US$1.5 billion. To
steer the country out of the 1986 economic and financial crisis, the government adopted a
Structural Adjustment Program (or SAP) supported by a Standby Arrangement with the
IMF (1988), and an IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) of US$150 million (1989).
In 1990, the Government launched the SDA project to promote poverty reduction in the
context of adjustment (Paras. 1.1-1.2).
2.    The Cameroon SDA project was the flagship of a broader SDA initiative, launched
in 1988 as a manifestation of the donor commitment to the concerns of social dimensions
in adjusting Sub-Saharan African countries. The SDA project was the most complex
attempt to fully apply the policy approach of the SDA initiative (Para. 1.3).
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
3.    Objectives. (Source: SAR). The project had three main objectives: (a) in the
medium to long run, to promote the participation of the poorest population groups in the
process of development; (b) in the short to medium run, to protect underprivileged and
vulnerable segments of the population, especially those groups directly affected by the
economic crisis and the adjustment program; and (c) to promote the institutionalization of
these concerns within the day-to-day responsibilities of existing agencies (Para. 1.4-1.6).
4.    Components. The project had seven main components: (a) Population:
Preparation and adoption of population policy; support for maternal and child health
(MCH) centers and family planning; institutional strengthening; (b) Health: policy design;
support for primary health care; information, education and communication (EEC);
prevention of AIDS and other sexually-transmitted diseases (STD); immunization; and
institutional strengthening; (c) Education: purchase of teaching materials and desks; (d)
Employment: studies; support for National Employment Fund (guidance, vocational
training, on-the-job training, self-employment opportunities, and micro-enterprise
support); institutional strengthening; (e) Women in Development: policy design;
institutional strengthening; reorientation of support services of the Women's Ministry and
EC; institutional strengthening; (f) Community development program (PRODEC); and



- 11 -
(g) Planning Capacity and Information Base: macro-modeling; household surveys; and
preparation of price indices (Para. 1.7).
5.    Agreed changes. The project was informally restructured in September 1991 in
order to improve the management capability of the coordinating agency (CTC/DSA) and
reflect the 50% financing gap created by the Bank's misinterpretation of donors'
commitment to the financing, as opposed to the goals, of the project. The population,
health, and education activities were removed from the coordinating agency's purview and
handed to concerned ministries. To address the effects of frequent suspension of
disbursements on PRODEC sub-projects, jointly financed by IBRD and the African
Development Bank (AFDB), Schedule I (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan) was
revised in July 1992 to enable the Bank to finance PRODEC activities at 100%, provided
that such financing represented only 50% of the total program (Para. 1.15 and Table 8A).
6.    Special loan covenants/agreements. Article V (Remedies of the Bank) was
adopted as a special agreement to further promote the achievement of the project's
objectives. The article included the following events of default that could justify loan
cancellation: (i) a Bank finding that government performance under the SAL I (Ln. 3089
CM) program was unsatisfactory; and (ii) a Bank finding that government performance in
the preparation of the statement of policy, the medium-term action plan and long-term
implementation strategy for education (under Loan 2683 CM) was unsatisfactory (para.
1.7).
7.    Evaluation of project objectives. The project's overall objectives were
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and Cameroon's strategy for
economic recovery and development. However, the project design was too complex,
seeking results across numerous sectors through a large number of institutions and over
the short, medium and long term at once. As a result, the three main objectives had too
many sub-objectives (Annex 2 of the SAR) that were not clearly defined (Paras. 1.9-1.10).
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    Project results. Since most of the project's objectives were not achieved, the
project was canceled, three and a half years prior to the planned closing date. However,
some favorable results were recorded by implementing agencies: According to the
government's final report (see Appendix B), the National Employment Fund (FNE) had
some success in providing employment opportunities, training assistance and support to
micro enterprises and self-employed individuals. Per government's report, in spite of
financial mismanagement, the community development program (PRODEC) would have
financed 151 micro projects, although the success of these is unknown. In addition: (i)
sectoral policy objectives were partially achieved in population and health; (ii) the
household survey (ECAM) was fully prepared but not carried out; (iii) institution-building
took place in FNE; (iv) studies of the planning capacities of the Ministry of Women's and
Social Affairs (MINASCOF) and the former Planning Ministry were carried out; and
(v) other studies were completed (Paras. 1. 11 - 1.12 and Table 7).



- iii -
9.    Sustainability. Since few activities were implemented, the prospect of project
sustainability is limited. The following entities are likely to be sustained: the implementing
agency (CTC/DSA), which is already managing the new Social Emergency Program
(PSU); FNE, which the government and AFDB continue to fund; and ECAM, which is
ready to be carried out if funded. Given allegations of financial mismanagement in
PRODEC, its continuation is unlikely (Para. 1.21).
10.   Actual costs, financing arrangements, and implementation timetable. Total
project cost was originally estimated at US$85.7 million to be provided by the Bank, the
Government and nine donors. However, five donors did not provide their expected
contribution and the project was re-structured after a year to cost US$54.1 mIillion. The
Bank contributed US$21.5 million, AfDB US$16 million, the Canadian Government US$4
million, the Japanese Government US$1 million, UNDP US$0.8 million, and the
Cameroon Government was to contribute US$10.8 million. The final total spent was only
US$11.95 million. As of the closing date of the project, only US$3.9 million of the Bank
loan had been disbursed and US$17.6 million was canceled. The Government
contribution was US$0.6 million. Canadian financing was only partially disbursed
(US$0.8 million) and the rest canceled. Only US$ 0.1 million of UNDP funds was
disbursed. The US$1 million Japanese fund is fully committed. As of June 1995, US$5.5
million of AfOB contribution had been disbursed and US$13.73 million undisbursed
(Tables 8A & 8B).
11.   Project implementation. Project effectiveness was five months behind schedule
(January 1991) and project implementation was slow due in part to the numerous
suspensions of disbursements because of arrears and non-provision of counterpart funds.
The majority of project activities was not implemented. Despite restructuring in
September 1991, the overall implementation rating continued to worsen throughout the
project. The loan was finally canceled in June 1994, after nine months of suspension and
well before its official closing date of December 1997. Reasons for cancellation included
the lack of counterpart funds and Cameroon's new eligibility for IDA credits (Paras. 1.15 -
1.17).
12.   Key problems that affected achievement of the major objectives. Project
success was obstructed by: (i) complexity of project design; (ii) serious gap in the
financing of project activities; (iii) weak government commitment to poverty reduction;
(iv) recurrent unavailability of counterpart funds; (v) governmental agencies' weak
capacity for project implementation and intra-governmental coordination; and (vi) the
project's weak financial management system, evidenced in the lack of transparency in the
management of project accounts and procurement (Paras. 1.18 - 1.20).
13.   Bank performance. The Bank provided abundant resources towards project
preparation but project appraisal and supervision were deficient. The Bank did not pay
sufficient attention to: (i) defining appropriate target indicators and identifying target
groups; and (ii) evaluating the government's ability both to manage such an innovative and
complex project and to provide counterpart funds. Two sub-components were not
appraised. Furthermore, the Bank did not define performance indicators to monitor



- iv -
project impact. A supervision plan was designed, but not properly implemented after the
first year (Paras. 1.22 - 1.25).
14.   Borrower's performance. Project implementation suffered from inadequate
government initial commitment and a lack of institutional motivation. Overall
implementation performance was severely marred by the government's non-payment of
debt service obligations to the Bank and non-provision of counterpart funds. This factor
was exacerbated by the weak institutional capacity of implementing agencies. As a result,
the Borrower did not comply with several loan covenants (Paras. 1.26 - 1.28 and Table
10).
15.   Project Outcome. The outcome of the project is unsatisfactory as it did not
achieve most of its major objectives (Para. 1.29).
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
16.   Most important findings/lessons of the project implementation experience:
(a) The Bank should realistically assess the Borrower's political will to address poverty
and design poverty projects accordingly; (b) The Bank should be mindful of its critics, but
not allow them to unduly influence the shape of the projects it supports; (c) Applying a
complex theoretical framework to a single operation is an unrealistic approach for project
design. In their eagerness to protect the vulnerable groups in the context of adjustment,
the Bank and the government designed an overly ambitious multi-sectoral project, that
was difficult to appraise and to implement and too costly to supervise; (d) The Bank
should make better use of existing information and carry out complementary studies
during preparation; (e) The Bank should appraise project components at appraisal, and not
after effectiveness; (f) Performance and impact indicators should be defined by both the
Bank and the Borrower during preparation (or at least during appraisal) and should
influence project design; (g) The Bank should realistically assess donors' interest in
projects and better--if not fully--secure commitments for financing from cofinanciers prior
to loan approval (Paras. 1.33-1.42).
17.   Plans for future project operations and sustainability. Some activities of the
SDA project are still ongoing with funding from the government and AfDB. Any future
poverty alleviation project should take into account the following considerations: (i) An
operational audit of FNE should be conducted in order to assess its efficiency and viability
for donor funding. For instance, FNE can potentially become a reputable job referral
service providing training/counseling of real relevance to the job market; (ii) Given its
advanced stage of preparation, ECAM could be carried out at a small marginal cost;
(iii) Skills developed by CTC/DSA and FNE should be maintained and could be used in
future Bank-financed projects; and (iv) Given the mismanagement of PRODEC,
community development programs should be executed by a non-governmental structure.
The Bank should consider re-assessing and possibly integrating sectoral objectives of the
SDA project in future sectoral projects (Para. 1.30-1.31).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT (SDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3206 CM)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   As of June 1994, the Bank had financed 75 operations (47 loans and 28 credits) in
Cameroon, with commitments totaling US$1.5 billion. Support to agricultural and
infrastructure development has dominated the Bank's lending strategy for the country, the
two sectors accounting respectively for 32 percent and 43 percent of the total. In
contrast, the social sectors have benefited from less than 6 percent of total commitments
(US$90 million); Until 1975, Bank lending to Cameroon focused largely on the
development of agricultural export crops and transport infrastructure. In the 1980s, the
scope of Bank operations broadened and included rural and urban development in order to
address the country's socio-economic concerns.
1.2   From the early seventies to the mid-eighties, the Cameroonian economy registered
steady growth of about eight per-cent per annum, stimulated in the latter years by the
development of the petroleum sector. Since 1986, however, Cameroon has been in the
midst of a major economic and financial crisis, led by a simultaneous decline in the prices
of all its major exports (petroleum, coffee and cocoa), and of the appreciation of the CFA
franc. As a result, the Government of Cameroon adopted a structural adjustment program
(SAP) supported by a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in 1988 and an IBRD
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) of US$150 million in 1989. Determined to re-
establish economic growth with equity over the medium and long term and to ensure the
protection of vulnerable groups in the short term, the government also launched a Social
Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project in 1990 as an integral part of its structural
adjustment program. Therefore, a failure by the government to implement SAL I in a
satisfactory manner was defined as an event justifying the Bank suspending disbursements
under major components of the SDA project. The project was closely coordinated in both
conception and design with SAL I, the Economic Management Project and the Food
Security Project approved in June 1989, July 1989 and July 1991 respectively.
1.3   The Cameroon SDA project was to be a flagship of the broader SDA initiative
which was launched in 1988 to moderate the effects of structural adjustment and
economic reform on the poor and vulnerable groups of adjusting Sub-Saharan African
countries and to help integrate these groups into the mainstream of these economies. The
SDA initiative was jointly sponsored by AtIB, UNDP and the Bank, and supported by
several bilateral and multilateral donors. The project's design reflects fully the policy
approach of the SDA initiative, which concentrates on: (i) improved management of



- 2 -
macro and sectoral policies; (ii) social action programs; (iii) strengthened information
systems; and (iv) institution building and training to support planning and implementation
in the other three areas.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.4   Project objectives (Source: SAR). Objectives in the area of human resource and
social dimensions of adjustment were identified in the government's Declaration of
Development Strategy and Economic Recovery, annexed to the "Report of the President
to the Executive Directors on the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in Cameroon"
(May 1989). These objectives were adopted by the SDA project, and are as follows:
(a)   in the medium to long run, to promote the participation of the poorest
population groups in the process of development;
(b)   in the short to medium run, to protect underprivileged and vulnerable
segments of the population, especially those groups directly affected by the
economic crisis and the adjustment program; and
(c)   to promote the institutionalization of these concerns within the routine
duties of existing agencies.
1.5   More specifically, the project was designed to support the government in the
implementation of its poverty reduction strategy by:
(a)   improving basic services in population planning, health and education,
rendering them more cost-effective and restoring services directed at the
poor that had been crippled by budget cuts;
(b)   promoting job creation and facilitating job placement in the recessionary
environment;
(c)   improving the opportunities for women to participate in development;
(d)   providing support to community-based micro-activities that generate
income or provide basic social infrastructure for the poor; and
(e)   strengthening the institutional capability for formulating and implementing
social policies, including broadening the information base to help the
authorities obtain a better understanding of the nature and location of
poverty and its evolution over time.
1.6   Three lines of action emerged from these objectives:
(a)   support to a fundamental policy design process in the social sectors;



- 3 -
(b)   immediate action programs to urgently address the priority needs of the
poor while overall reform took hold; and
(c)   institutional strengthening to support emerging policy reforms and action
programs.
1.7   Special loan covenants/agreements. Article V (Remedies of the Bank) was
adopted as a special agreement to further promote the achievement of the project's
objectives. The article included the following events of default that could justify loan
cancellation: (i) a Bank finding that government performance under the SAL I (Ln.3089
CM) program was unsatisfactory; and (ii) a Bank finding that government performance in
the preparation of the statement of policy, the medium-term action plan and long-term
implementation strategy for education (under Loan 2683 CM) was unsatisfactory.
1.8   Project components. The project had: i) seven components in the areas of
population, health, education, employment creation, women in development, community
development programs, planning capacity and information base; and ii) 19 sub-
components to reflect the three lines of actions. Individual sub-components included as
many as five activities (as in the case of the National Employment Fund). The seven
components were: (i) Population: Preparation and adoption of population policy; support
for maternal and child health centers (MCH) and family planning; institutional
strengthening; (ii) Health: policy design; support for primary health care; information,
education and communication (IEC); prevention of AIDS and other sexually-transmitted
diseases (STD); immunization; and institutional strengthening; (iii) Education: purchase of
teaching materials and desks, (iv) Employment: studies; support for National Employment
Fund (which provides guidance, vocational training, on-the-job training, self-employment
opportunities, and micro-enterprise support); and institutional strengthening; (v) Women
in Development (WID): policy design; institutional strengthening; reorientation of support
services of the Women's Ministry and IEC; (vi) Community development program
(PRODEC); and (vii) Planning Capacity and Information Base: macro-modeling;
household surveys; and preparation of price indices.
1.9   Evaluation of objectives. The project's objectives were consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and with Cameroon's strategy for economic
recovery and development. However, the project's design became complex as it
attempted in a single operation to intervene in too many sectors through a large number of
institutions and simultaneously achieve results in the short term (by providing an urgent
response to poverty alleviation), the medium term (through institution building), and the
long term (through sectoral policy reforms). As a result, the project identified too many
sub-objectives that were related to each of the seven components but remained poorly
defined.
1.10  Additional factors affected the definition of objectives: (i) Lack of selective
performance criteria: the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) utilized accounts and audits,
semi-annual reports and intensive supervision as the only means for monitoring the
achievement of objectives, including no specific indicators to evaluate project



- 4 -
performance; and (ii) Lack of adequate information: Although a capacity assessment of
NGOs was carried out, similar reviews of existing government implementing agencies
were not conducted. However, a Country Assessment Paper that laid out Cameroon's
poverty profile contributed to the preparation process, although it was prepared
simultaneously with the SDA project and issued only in December 1990 (four months after
the signing of the Loan and one month before effectiveness).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.11  Most activities were not implemented and the project was canceled nearly three
and a half years before the planned closing date. Therefore, the overall success of the
project in achieving its objectives under the three lines of action (policy, action program
and institution building) was limited.
1.12  Policy objectives. Policy objectives for Population and Health were achieved
(population and health policies were adopted), while the one for the WID was not realized
(due to inadequate management capacity in the Ministry of Women's and Social Affairs).
The policy objectives stated in the Planning Capacity and Information Base component
were not achieved as the following activities were not carried out: macro-modeling (due
to lack of UNDP funding), and the preparation of pricing indices. The household survey
("Enquete Camerounaise Aupres des Menages" or ECAM) was fully designed but not
carried out. For the Employment component, the National Manpower Survey was not
carried out (due to disagreement with the Bank on the scope and objectives of the survey).
1.13  Action program objectives. According to the government's final report (see
Appendix B), the National Employment Fund (FNE) has recorded some success,
providing employment opportunities for 2,867 persons and training assistance for 2,163
persons, as well as in supporting the development of eight micro enterprises (which
generated 815 jobs) and 167 individual-owned businesses which generated 218 jobs. Per
government's report, the Community Development Program (PRODEC), in spite of
financial mismanagement (17 million CFAF unaccounted for, case currently with the
courts), claims that it financed 151 micro projects, which generated some 747 jobs;
however, there is no documentary evidence on the rate of success of the micro-
enterprises. The action program objectives stated for Population and Health (see tables 5
and 6), and financed with the Japanese grant, were partially achieved. Those for the
Education component were not realized as it was never implemented due to poor
preparation of bidding documents. Efforts to meet objectives for the Women in
Development (WID) component, financed by a CIDA grant, were so poorly executed due
to weak management and internal problems within the Ministry of Women's and Social
Affairs (MINASCOF), that CIDA decided to withdraw its funding.
1.14  Institution building objectives. Some institution building took place in the
project. The FNE was created as a permanent institution and within it new structures
were set up ("Division d'Assistance a l'Insertion et la Reinsertion" (DAIR) and the
Information Center), some studies carried out, and training/technical support provided to



- 5 -
clients. With regard to the WID component, some benefits were realized from the creation
of a Planning, Coordination and Evaluation unit and the establishment of an administrative
unit in MINASCOF, and the completion of some studies; however, very little institution
building in the area of training and coordination with other sectors occurred, due to
MINASCOF's weak management capacity. Finally, the Higher Institute of Public
Management (ISMP) carried out diagnostic studies of the planning capacities of
MIN4ASCOF and the Planning Ministry.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
1.15  Project implementation took place in an environment of political instability and
amid a worsening economic crisis. To ensure efficient project management, the Borrower
established, by decree, a committee (CTC/DSA) in charge of overall management and
coordination of the project (initially under the President's office and finally under the
Prime Minister's); appointed an administrator; and delegated implementation of
components to the relevant ministries (MINPAT, MINSANTE, MINEDUC, MESIRES,
MTPS, and MINASCOF) and the newly created FNE and PRODEC. The Bank designed
a plan that shared supervision among the project task manager in AFICO then AFIPH and
component managers from other divisions, AIF1PH and AF1IE in particular (memo of
August 21, 1990).
1.16 Nonetheless, project implementation was dogged by many problems. A five-
month delay in loan effectiveness due to the time required to fulfill all the conditions for
effectiveness contributed to the slow start-up in the implementation of project activities.
The loan became effective on January 30, 1991 and was planned to close on December 31,
1997. Following the 1990 donor meeting, the Bank misinterpreted donors' commitment
to the financing, as opposed to the goals, of the project and expected the US$85.7 million
project to be cofinanced by nine other donors. Actually, expected funding from the
European Community (EC), France, Federal Republic of Germany, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA) was not made available. Consequently, many activities
were never started. The project was informally restructured in September 1991 to
increase the management capability of the CTC/DSA and to focus attention on those
components for which financing was available, namely those related to the FNE, WID,
PRODEC, and the household surveys. To adjust the CTC/DSA work program to its
management capacity, the population, health and education components were also
removed from the committee's purview and handed to concerned ministries. The cost of
the restructured project was lower, at US$54.1 million (Table 8B), and funds were re-
allocated across activities.
1.17  The restructuring did not resolve the project's financing problems. First, although
nearly three quarters of the costs of the restructured project were to be funded by the
Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB), disbursements from both lenders were
frequently suspended due to the government's arrears in debt service and non-provision of



- 6 -
counterpart funds. Five long suspensions were imposed on the project between 1992 and
1994. Indeed, some project activities could not be carried out for even six months
without interruption due to a suspension. Second, counterpart funds posed a recurring
problem, particularly as the government's fiscal position declined in 1993. Because of the
intractable problem status of the project (rated 4 during the last ARPP exercise), and given
Camneroon's eligibility for IDA credit following the devaluation of the CFAF in January
1994, the IBRD loan was canceled in June 1994, with US$3.9 million disbursed and
US$17.6 million undisbursed. Canadian funding was withdrawn, with only US$0.8 million
disbursed out of a committed amount of US$4 million. Japanese funding of US$1 million
is fully committed and will be fully disbursed. Only US$0.1 million of UNDP funds was
disbursed. As of June 1995, US$5.55 million of AfDB contribution has been disbursed,
US$13.73 million undisbursed (Table 8B).
1.18  Main factors affecting project implementation. Factors not generally subject
to government control:
(a)   complexity of the project in terms of scope and number of implementing
institutions;
(b)   a serious gap in the financing of project activities. The cofinancing loans
and grants from five out of nine donors did not materialize. Furthermore,
available funds from contributing donors became effective at different times
(IBRD loan and grant from Japan in January, CIDA grant in June and
AfDB loan in July 1991); this affected the implementation of the project,
particularly in cases where project activities were jointly and equally
financed by IBRD and AfDB. The 50/50 joint financing arrangement was
also hampered by AfDB's frequent suspension of disbursement for
PRODEC sub-projects; a revision of Schedule I (Withdrawal of the
Proceeds of the Loan) in July 1992 enabled the Bank to finance PRODEC
activities at 100%, provided that such financing represented only 50% of
the total program; and
(c)   Inadequate assistance from Bank during implementation. Human
resources were not provided according to the original supervision plan
worked out with other divisions.
1.19  Factors generally subject to government control:
(a)   The Government's inadequate political commitment to poverty reduction
in spite of its apparent determination as enunciated in the Declaration of
Development Strategy and Economic Recovery;
(b)   Unavailability of counterpart funds. The deteriorating macroeconomic
environment with its negative impact on the availability of budgetary
allocations, as well as the government's priorities in allocating the available



- 7 -
funds, contributed to a severe shortage of counterpart funds throughout the
short life of the project; and
(c)   The government's cumbersome disbursement and procurement practices.
Such practices were not conducive to properly managing such a complex
project and seriously affected timely disbursement and procurement for the
execution of project activities. The problem was aggravated since funding
came from several sources, with the attendant delays in releasing funds
across various structures ("Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement",
CTC/DSA, and the implementing agencies).
1.20 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a)   Government agencies' weak capacity (or motivation) for implementation
and intra-governmental coordination. Supervision reports and Form 590s
are replete with problems attributable to the weak institutional capacity of
implementing agencies, including ministries; and
(b)   Weak financial management system as evidenced in the lack of
transparency in the management of project accounts and procurement.
D. PROJECT SUSTALNABILITY
1.21  Cameroon's policy environment is still not clearly conducive to the implementation
of a sustainable poverty alleviation strategy and related projects (as evidenced by the
government's reaction to the recent Poverty Assessment). Therefore, any future project in
the area of poverty reduction should address this issue with the government. Since few
activities were implemented, the SDA project's social impact is likely to be limited,
although no impact assessment has been conducted. Nevertheless, the following entities
could be maintained: the CTC/DSA, which is already managing the Emergency Social
Program (PSU)' and the FNE, which the Government and AfDB continue to fund. The
ECAM which was completely prepared can be implemented if funded. Given the
allegations of financial mismanagement in PRODEC, its continuation is unlikely, although
AfDB continues to finance it. Any new Bank-financed poverty project should consider: i)
involving some of the trained persons in CTC/DSA; ii) funding some FNE activities,
depending on the results of an operational audit; and iii) carrying out the household survey
(ECAM).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.22  Identification of the project was satisfactory in that it was consistent with the
government's development strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategy in
I Launched by the government in 1994 as an integral part of its new adjustment program.



- 8 -
Cameroon. Project design was innovative in that it addressed all dimensions of poverty.
Although the Bank identified the major risks, it underestimated their scope and the
remedies necessary to address them. The Bank devoted a lot of resources to project
preparation and implementation. Between FY89 and FY94, it provided significant
resources (371 staff weeks and US$686,800; see Table 12), including 124 staff weeks for
preparation (a little above average) and 206 for supervision (greatly above average for
investment projects). Nine donor agencies and a large number of consultants with
requisite expertise (see Tables 13A & B) participated in varying degrees in project
identification and preparation. However, project appraisal was deficient as: a) the Bank
underestimated the amount of resources and the level of management capacity and inter-
agency coordination needed for implementing such a complex and innovative project;
b) the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to: (i) defining appropriate target indicators
and identifying target groups; and (ii) evaluating the government's ability both to manage
such an innovative and complex project and provide counterpart funds; c) two sub-
components i.e. macro-modeling and the national manpower survey, were not appraised;
d) the Bank's understanding of some of the cofinanciers' commitment to funding was
incorrect; e) a number of questions raised by the country team and Bank management
were insufficiently addressed; and f) the Bank did not define performance indicators to
monitor project impact.
1.23   Several factors greatly influenced project appraisal. The project was designed at a
time when (i) the Borrower could suffer a heavy political setback if the SAP, adopted for
the first time, were to result in hardship for some segments of the country's population;
(ii) the Bank was being heavily attacked, notably by UNICEF and the Economic
Community for Africa (ECA), for supporting Structural Adjustment Programs that paid
no heed to their social dimensions; (iii) the Bank's in-house experience and expertise in
poverty reduction was still limited; and (iv) the Bank managing unit was over-ambitious,
rushed the appraisal and did not make sufficient use of staff experienced in operations and
especially implementation. For these reasons, including the protection of the vulnerable
groups, the Bank and the Borrower jointly designed a comprehensive but extremely
complex project, grossly underestimating the commensurate demands on institutional
capacity and resources. Moreover, although the project designers stressed the importance
of using existing structures to contain such demands, at least three new structures
(CTC/DSA, FNE, and PRODEC) were created.
1.24  The Borrower's implementing institutions were allowed virtually no time to
internalize the objectives and the methods for achieving them. The Bank should have
expended more effort and time on: (i) identifying the needs of the poor and prioritizing
objectives with the help of the Country Assessment Paper; (ii) identifying target groups
and indicators; (iii) dialogue and consensus-building with implementing institutions on
project objectives and the probability of their achievement; (iv) identifying performance
indicators to monitor project achievements; (v) capacity assessment of the implementing
agencies/ministries; and (vi) establishment and equipment of the new institutions
(CTC/DSA, FNE, and PRODEC) before start-up of project activities.



- 9 -
1.25  Although ostensibly intensive during the three and a half years of the project (a
total of eight missions, including two follow-up ones and 206 staff weeks), project
supervision was deficient after the first year. Given the inherent complexity of the project,
and its multi-sectoral nature, the Bank designed a supervision plan; unfortunately the plan
was not properly implemented. The resources allocated for supervision, although far
higher than usual for investment projects (50 staff-weeks per year), proved insufficient or
were not optimally allocated. Sector specialists within the Bank, originally assigned to
supervise the various components, were withdrawn by their divisions without
replacements; this left the task manager without adequate human resources for effective
supervision as originally planned. Comprehensive supervision missions (5-6 persons for 2
weeks) were too infrequent for a complex project experiencing serious implementation
problems, while large amounts of time were recorded on project supervision at
headquarters.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.26  As an important complement to Cameroon's Structural Adjustment Program, the
SDA project was a high priority for the government. Project identification and
preparation by the government encompassed a participatory process in which five working
groups, composed primarily of representatives from the line ministries, identified and
developed the project's components and actions. Originally, the working groups included
representatives from NGOs and the donor community, but the government did not actively
encourage these participation and they tended to drift away. Overall, project
implementation suffered from weak government commitment and from poor institutional
and management capacity (or motivation) of implementing agencies.
1.27  The Borrower's implementation performance was severely marred by its failure to
meet its debt service obligations to the Bank and provide counterpart funds to the project.
These factors, exacerbated by the weak institutional capacity of implementing agencies,
were primarily responsible for highly unsatisfactory ratings on project implementation;
they also constrained the achievement of project development objectives and resulted in
the Borrower's poor or non-compliance with several loan covenants (see Table 10).
1.28 The project experienced an average disbursement lag of 75 percent (Table 1 3B).
Progress reports, accounts and audit reports were not submitted in time (the ones for
FY91/92 and FY92/93 were late, and that for FY93/94 due by December 1994 has not yet
been received by the Bank). Five of the programmed studies were not carried out (Table
7). Coordination problems arose between the CTC/DSA and the other implementing
agencies, particularly the MINASCOF. Monitoring and supervision of some project
activities were severely inadequate; in PRODEC-funded micro-projects in particular, this
deficiency resulted in as much as CFAF 17 million (US$31,365) being unaccounted for.



- 10-
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.29  The project's success in achieving its primary and other objectives was limited,
given: (i) its complexity; (ii) the Borrower's weakening commitment and institutional and
management deficiencies; (iii) the lack of counterpart funds; (iv) the unstable political
environment in which the project was implemented; (v) the Bank's under-provision of
resources for supervision; and (vi) the donors' decisions not to finance some activities.
Although some activities were implemented, the overall project outcome is unsatisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
1.30 There is no government plan for a future operation as such. However, a number
of activities are being continued when possible, some with Bank Group assistance.
Following the cancellation of the SDA project, and in the context of the Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC), which was approved by IDA (Cr. 2627 CM) in August 1994
mainly to respond to the effects of the January 1994 CFAF devaluation, the Bank
appraised a Social Action Program which consisted of some activities from the SDA
project. It amounted to US$14 million and included: the operating costs of CTC/SDA,
some FNE operating costs, payment of arrears, field work of ECAM, and an expanded
education component (including school rehabilitation, purchase of tables and benches and
didactic material). As part of the conditionality for ERC, the government advanced CFAF
1 billion to a special account to be disbursed for the Social Action Program. The
government began to disburse additional funds at the end of 1994. However, very little of
the donor financing expected by the government to cover most of the costs of the Social
Action Program has materialized.
1.31  To date, some activities of the SDA project are still ongoing with funding from the
government and AffB. Future operations in the field of poverty alleviation should take
into account the following considerations: (i) An operational audit of the FNE component
should be conducted in order to assess its efficiency and viability for donor funding. For
instance, FNE can potentially become a reputable job referral service providing
training/counseling of relevance for the job market; (ii) The household survey (ECAM)
could be carried out at a small marginal cost given its advanced stage of preparation; (iii)
Skills developed by CTC/DSA and FNE should be sustained and could be used in future
Bank-financed projects; and (iv) Given the mismanagement of PRODEC, community
development programs should be executed by a non-governmental structure. Because the
SDA project was a difficult vehicle for effecting sectoral reforms (in population, health,
and education), the Bank should consider re-assessing and possibly integrating sectoral
objectives of the SDA project into future sectoral projects.



- 11 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.32  The Bank should realistically assess the Borrower's political will to address
poverty, and should design poverty projects accordingly. Failure to do so resulted in
unsatisfactory project implementation and very limited achievement of objectives.
1.33  The Bank should be mindful of its critics but should not allow them to unduly
influence the shape of the projects it supports.
1.34  Applying a complex theoretical framework to a single operation proved to be an
unrealistic approach for project design. In its eagerness to protect the vulnerable groups
in the context of adjustment, the Bank and the government designed an overly ambitious
multi-sectoral project that was difficult to appraise and to implement, and too costly to
supervise. Given the country's political situation, conflicting economic priorities and
weak institutions, project design should have been kept simple and focused on areas in
which the political environment and institutional capacity could have ensured some
sustainability.
1.35  The Bank should make better use of information at its disposal and should carry
out complementary studies during preparation. The existing Country Assessment Paper
could have helped to prioritize project activities, while questions raised by the country
team and Bank management should have been addressed and subsequent changes reflected
in project design. In addition, an assessment of the absorptive capacity of the
implementing agencies and the government's ability to provide counterpart funds would
have indicated a need to scale down the project at the preparation stage.
1.36  The Bank should appraise project components at appraisal, and not after
effectiveness; doing otherwise can lead to delay in start-up and non-implementation of
some components.
1.37  The Bank should have paid more attention to: (i) better identifying target groups
and targeting indicators; and (ii) facilitating more efficient and effective implementation of
the project.
1.38  Performance and impact indicators should be defined by the Bank and the
government during preparation and should be reflected in project design.
1.39  Preferably, supervision arrangements should involve one or a very limited number
of the divisions in the Bank, in order to limit the risk of resource reduction during
implementation. However, if inter-divisional supervision must be carried out, divisions
should allocate and provide resources commensurate with their roles in the project.
1.40  Efforts to address policy design and institutional capacity in the education,
population and health sectors are best left to sectoral projects.



- 12-
1.41   The Bank should realistically assess donors' interest in projects and better -- if not
fully - secure commitments for financing from cofinanciers prior to loan approval.
1.42 The Bank should ensure that government's implementing agencies, particularly the
newly-created entities, have efficient financial management and accounting systems for
good administration, and proper and timely utilization of project resources. Failure to do
this can result in financial mismanagement as was the case with PRODEC.



- 13 -
2. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                E
Sector policies                                   0
Financial objectives                                                          0
Institutional development                        E0
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                             0
Gender Issues                                                 0
Other social objectives                                                       0
Environmental objectives                                                     0
Public sector management                                                      0
Private sector development                                                    0
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
(1)()                                         (/)
Highly
C. Bank performance                Satisfactory            Satisfactory            Deficient
(V)                    V)                    (V)
Identification                                                 0
Preparation assistance                                         0
Appraisal
Supervision                                                                           0
Highly
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory            Satisfactory            Deficient
(1)                    (V)                    (/)
Preparation                            U                      E                       [
Implementation                         E                      [1                     0
Covenant compliance                    [1                     0                       0
Operation                              L                      [                      E
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
0(/)            0)             0               0"
E a3 c                         3C



-14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose                  Year of |   Status
|Approval|
Preceding operations
1. L26830-CAM          To: (i) improve the quality of primary and  1986    Canceled
Education & Vocational  technical secondary education; and (ii) to      06/14/94
Training              increase the relevance of the vocational
training system to the labor market.
2. L30890 -CAM         To: (i) redress the substantial decline in  1989    Closed
SAL I                  GDP; and (ii) achieve a positive rate of         09/30/94
per capita growth by 1995.
3. L3 1100-CAM         To: (i) fornulate and implement reforms in    1989    Closed
Economic Management  the context of structural adjustment                12/31/93
Project                program; and (ii) promote lasting, long-
term improvement in policy analysis and
management of the country's economy.    I
Following operations
4. L33880-CAM          To improve access to and availability of  1991   Planned
Cameroon Food          food by: (i) creating opportunities for          Closing date:
SecurityI)            increasing employment and incomes of the          1999
poor, especially of women's groups;
(ii) addressing food marketing constraints;
(iii) averting crop loss due to pest attacks;
and (iv) improving feeding and dietary
practices of children and women.
5. Cr.2627 CM          To: (i) generate primary surpluses and  8/24/94   Planned
Economic Recovery      public sector savings sufficient to cover an     Closing date:
program               increasing share of the country's external        6/30/95
interest obligations; and (ii) raise public
investments.
While the principal target group of PRODEC funding was the vulnerable and poor urban population,
the participation of the rural poor was promoted primarily through the Food Security Project.



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned      Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project    Feb. 1989          Feb. 1989
Summary)
Preparation                          July 1989          July 17, 1989
Appraisal                            Dec. 1989          Feb. 12 - 23,1990
Negotiations                         April 10-13, 1990   April 11-19, 1990
Board presentation                   April 1990         May 90
Signing                                                 Aug. 3, 1990
Effectiveness                        Sept. 1,1990       Jan. 30, 1991
Mid-termn review                     Dec. 1992          Not done
Project completion                   June 1997          Did not occur
Loan closing                         Dec. 31, 1997      Project canceled on June 7, 1994
Table 4: Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ '000)
FY91    FY92    FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96    FY97  FY98
Appraisal estimate  2,200    7,600    12,100    15,500    18,700    21,500  0      0
Actual             950    1,516    2,868     3,938         -         -
Actual as % of      43      20        24        25
estimate
Date of final                                6/7/94
disbursement
Comment: Only US$3,937,803 of the loan amount of US$21.5 million was disbursed, leaving
US$17,562,197 that was canceled. This does not include any disbursements established
through balance adjustment entries.



- 16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR             Estimated                  Actual
POPULATION & HEALTH
I. Establishment of coordination mechanism for              9/30/90          Around May 1991
population and health.
2. Adoption of statements of population policy and health   6/30/91          By February 1993
sector policy.
3. Timetable for introduction of essential drugs and cost  12/31/92          (i) Drugs: in progress; and
recovery program throughout public health system.                            (ii) Cost recovery: Started
in hospitals; Enacted late
1994 for health centers.
EDUCATION
4. Establishment of coordination and implementation         9/30/90          Completed
committee for education module.
EMPLOYMENT
5. Establishment of users' committee for ECAM.              9/30/90          Completed
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
6. Adopting of a statement of policy incorporating an       3/31/92          Not completed due to
operational and multisectoral strategy on role of women.                     cancellation of Canadian
financing.
7. Establishment of a Planning, Coordination and           12/31/90          Completed
Evaluation Unit in MINASCOF.
8. (a) Re-orient MINASCOF's mandate towards a               9/30/90          Not completed due to
conceptual, normative and coordination role on all                           cancellation of Canadian
women's issues and (b) establish appropriate institutional                   financing.
linkages to carry out this mandate.
MID-TERM REVIEW
9. Conduct with the Bank a joint review of the progress    12/31/92 revised to  Delayed due to suspension
of the Project and, on the basis of this review, take any  6/30/93           of disbursements. Not
measures deemed appropriate by Borrower and the Bank.                        done due to loan
cancellation.



- 17-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Key Operating Indicators in SAR               Estimated                         Actual
1. POPULATION & HEALTH
Organization of provincial workshops on draft            8/90              Done.
population policy document.
Ensure that the program and budgeting system           12/31/91            Being finalized under the FY95 health
and the budget monitoring system are in place.                             sector project
Preparation of training program for MINSANTE             2/91
personnel and members of management                                        Not done
committee.
8/90
Recruitment of a consultant expert in program                              Done
budget.
2. EDUCATION
Recruitment of a consultant in program budget.           8/90              Not done
Request bids for manuals, school benches,                10/90             Not done
equipment and teaching aids.
3. EMPLOYMENT
(a) FNE:
Creation of a Re-insertion Assistance Service to         10/90             Done
counsel and orient job seekers, particularly those
leaving the public sector.
Development of MIS on the functioning and                10/90             Done
performance of the labor market.
Establishment of DAIR  with a view to                    7/90              Done
undertaking coordination, assistance in program
design, and channeling of candidates to
appropriate institutions.
Establishment of a program of technical and
financial assistance to existing and new micro-       12/90 - 1/93         In progress
enterprises which generate employment.
(b) Ministry of Labor (MTPS)
Recruitment of consultant for manpower survey.                             Not done
Completion of the National Labor Survey.                 12/92             Not done
)   Division d'Assistance a t'lnsertion et a la Reinsertion



-18 -
1. Key Operating Indicators in SAR                Estimated                           Actual
4. WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
Creation of an administrative unit to supervise           6/90               Done
WID module activities.
Recruitment of an international socio-economist           12/90              Done
consultant.
Recruitment of an international consultant expert         8/91               Not done
in IEC.
Training of teaching personnel in urban centers.       Starting 7/91         Not done
Training program for rural animators.                  Starting 5/91         Not done
5. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Design of operational procedures.                          9/90              Done
Financing of pilot projects.                              11/90              Done
Implementation of program in four areas.                   1/91              Implemented in the Center; Littoral;
North-West; and North provinces.



- 19-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                       Purpose as defined at             Status           Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Inventory of existing capacity  To strengthen the Ministry's planning  Completed     Not known
and evaluation of needs of       capacity.
Ministry of Health.
2. Inventory of existing capabilities   To strengthen the Ministry's capacity to   Completed  Not known
and evaluation of needs of Ministry   (a) plan objectives and operational
of Education.                    strategies; and (b) manage resources and
programs more efficiently.
3. Survey of the types,          To identify 75 initial public enterprises   Completed in  Extended to rural zones.
characteristics, and skills of people  to be restructured, privatized, or closed.   collaboration with
likely to leave public enterprises.                                   CENAFOP
4. Inventory of existing institutional  To improve and adapt the supply of  Completed    Used by FNE to develop
capacity for professional training.    labor to the job market.                         training programs.
5. National manpower survey      To improve the functioning of the labor   Not done
market over the medium and long term.
6. Possibility of creating a     To improve the functioning of the labor   Not done
volunteer service as a means of  market over the medium and long term.
giving youths practical work
experience.
7. Study to identify labor intensive   To increase the demand for labor in the   Not done
projects.                        public investment program.
8. Literature search of studies on  To develop a national strategy and  Completed       Not known
the situation of women in Cameroon  action plan for the integration of women
and identification of knowledge  in development.
gaps.
9. Inventory of agencies active in    To develop a national strategy and  Completed     No impact yet
the area of women in development.   action plan for the integration of women
in development.
10. Study on improving the       To improve the impact of MINASCOF's  Not done          Not known
management of urban support      urban support services (women' homes,
services and on reinforcing      social centers, etc.).
mechanisms of self financing.
11. Priority household survey.                                       Not done
)   CENAFOP: Centre National de Formation Professionnelle.



-20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (Portion Financed by IBRD, million of US Dollars)
Appraisal Estimate     Revised 1)       Actual 2        Undisbursed
CATEGORY_LI
I. Education expend. Part C. ITI
1. school desks/benches                  2,000,000        2,000,000           0.00     2,000,000.00
2.Teaching man/mat.                      1,600,000         1,600,000          0.00     1,600,000.00
II. MTPS Expend.
Parts D.3 & D.4
3. consult.serv. & trg                     600,000          600,000      29,679.56       570,320.44
4. equipm & vhs                            300,000          300,000         577.61       299,422.39
5. Oper. costs                             600,000          600,000         570.21       599,429.79
III. FNE expend.
Parts D. I & D.2
6. D.l -CN. SVC                          1,200,000         1,200,000    598,378.08       601,621.92
7. D. 1-EQ & VHS                           200,000          335,000     281,511.12        53,488.88
8. D.l- OP. COSTS                          300,000          300,000     217,580.89        82,419.11
9. D.1 - VOCAT. TRNG (COIC)              1,000,000        1,000,000     688,587.71       311,412.29
I OA. D. I -GOODS/SVCS                   2.000,000        2,000,000     268,040.93     1,731,959.07
1OB D.l-GOODS/SVCS                       6,000,000        3,170,000           0.00     3,170,000.00
IV. COMMUNITY
DEVT./PRODEC
EXPEND.
PART. F.
11. CN. SVCS                              370,000           470,000     149,433.55       320,566.45
12. GOODS/SVCS                           2,500,000        2,500,000     578,177.56     1,921,822.44
V. PLANNING
CAPACITY & INFO.
BASE EXPEND.
PART G.3
13. CN. SVCS/TRNG                           50,000        1,670,000      35,235.26     1,634,764.74
14. VHS/EQ                                  40,000          470,000     116,622.10       353,377.90
15. OP. COSTS                              100,000        1,380,000      15,225.16     1,364,774.84
VI. PROJECT ADM.
EXPEND.
PART  H__                                               _  _  _ ___                      _  _  _   _ _
16. TRNG                                   90,000            90,000     228,686.21       138,686.21-
17.VHS/EQ.                                  50,000          190,000     195,501.71         5,501.71-
18.0P. COSTS                              250,000           250,000     135,134.37       114,865.63
19. REFUNDING  OF PPF                     750,000           375,000     371,174.91         3,825.09
20. UNALLOCATED                          1,000,000        1,000,000           0.00     1,000,000.00
TOTAL                                   21,500,000       21,500,000    3,937,803.00    17,562,196.92
(Canceled)
Comment: Amendment to Schedule I of the Loan Agreement on July 21, 1992 - US$3.33 million was
reallocated from the National Employment Fund to the surveys component. Goods and services for Part F. 1.
under the Community Development Program was amended to be borne by the Bank at 100% instead of jointly
with AfDB at 50%.
2)   Breakdown between local and foreign costs is not available.



-21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing')
Appraisal estimate    Revised estimate (US$M)   Actual estimate (US$M)
(US$M)
Source         CLota  Foreign   Total  LCotal  Foreign   Total   Cost   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                      21.5                      21.5                       3.9
ADB                                       16.0                      16.0                       5.5
EUROPEAN                                  10.0 
COMMUNITY
FEDERAL REP. OF                            7.7
GERMANY
CANADA                                     7.3                       4.0                       0.8
FRANCE                                     3.9                              __               _
USAID                                      3.5
UNFPA                                      3.2
JAPAN                                      1.0                       1.0                       1.0
UNDP                                       0.8                       0.8                       0.1
GOV. OF CAMEROON                          10.8                      10.8                       0.6
TOTAL                    43.2   42.5      85.7                      54.1                      11.95
Comment:  145 million Japanese yen was provided, 124 million disbursed, 21 million undisbursed
4.6 million Canadian $ was provided, 990,000 disbursed, 3.6 million undisbursed. 12.36
million SDR equivalent was provided by AMDB, 8.8 million undisbursed.
The Government disbursed CFAF 178 million.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate
of return (ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for
evaluation purposes. Furthermore, no parameters were given at appraisal with regard to
cost effectiveness.
1)  Breakdown between local and foreign costs is not available.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cameroon
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Project
Loan 3206 CM
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Present   Original     Revised       Description of       Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment     Covenant
Date        Date
Ln.3206    Art. II    PIA        NC        12/31/97    -           Closing date        Project canceled
CM          2.03                                                                       in June 1994
Ln. 3206    Art. III    PIA      NC        -           -           Borrower shall       Serious delays in
CM          3.01 (a)                                               provide, promptly   the provision of
as needed, funds,    counterpart funds.
facilities, services
and other resources
for project.
Ln. 3206    3.01 (c)   F         NC        -           -           Borrower shall
CM                                                                 make proceeds of
loan allocated to
Categories (6) and
(10) in Para. I of
Schedule I
available to FNE
Ln. 3206    3.01 (b)   PIA       NC        -           -           Borrower shall       Project
CM                                                                 carry out project in  implementation
accordance with    interrupted with
implementation      frequent
program set in      suspensions.
Schedule 5 of
agreement.
Ln.. 3206    3.03 (b)   F        NC        -           -           Borrower to deposit  Carried out with
CM                                                                 into FNE Project    lot of delays of
Account within 15   over 15 days.
days of end of each
quarter, amount of
CFA equal to total
amount of
withdrawals from
FNE project
account
Ln.. 3206    4.01 (ii)   A/A     NC        -           -           Furnish to Bank not  Audit reports
CM                                                                 later than 6 months  submitted late.
after end of each
such year, report of
such audit



- 23 -
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present   Original     Revised      Description of      Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment    Covenant
Date        Date
Ln. 3206    Art. V    R          NC       -           -           Conditionality     Borrower's poor
CM          5.01 (a)                                             regarding link      performance in
between Bank's     SAL caused
satisfaction with  frequent
progress achieved    suspensions of
by Borrower in SAL  disbursement and
(no. 3089 CM) and   ultimate
disbursement for   cancellation of
this project       project.
Ln. 3206    Art. V    R          NC       -           -           Conditionality     This
CM          5.01 (b)                                              between            conditionality was
disbursement in    not fulfilled and in
Education          large part
component and      contributed to non
progress made by    execution of the
Borrower in        component.
preparation and
implementation of
policy, long-term
strategy and
medium-tekm action
plan for years 1991-
1993 for education
sector.
Ln. 3206    Art. VI    SPC-      CAM      -           -           Adviser to DG of    This was
CM          6.01 (b)   adm.                                       FNE has been       condition for
employed.          effectiveness but
was amended to
become a
condition for
disbursement.
Ln. 3206    Schedule  SPC-       CAM      -           -           Reallocation of    Also amended
CM          I (10) b   allocative                                 US$3.33 million    were categories
from FNE to survey  (12), (16) and
component          (19), heading V,
and para. 2 (c) of
Schedule 1.
Ln. 3206    Schedule  P          CAM      -           -           Local competitive    Loan agreement
CM          4, Part C                                             bidding (LCB)      amended to raise
Other                                                                    the aggregate
procure-                                                                 ceilings for
ment                                                                     procurement
proce-                                                                   through LCB and
dures                                                                    shopping



- 24 -
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Present   Original     Revised       Description of       Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment     Covenant
Date        Date
Ln. 3206    Schedule   I          C        9/30/90     -           Establishment of     Completed with
CM          5,1 (b)                                                coordination         delay around May
(iii)                                                  mechanism for pop.  1991.
and health.
Ln. 3206    Schedule   I          C        9/30/90                 Establishment of     Completed
CM          5,1 (c)                                                coordination and
Part E                                                 implementation
committee for
education module.
Ln. 3206    Schedule   I          C        12/31/90    -           Establishment of     Completed
CM          5,1 (e) (i)                                             Planning
Coordination and
Evaluation Unit in
MINASCOF
Ln. 3206    Schedule   I          CP       9/30/91                 (a) Reorient         Not completed
CM          I (e) (i)                                              MINASCOF's           due to
mandate towards a   cancellation of
conceptual,         Canadian
normative and       financing
coordination role on
all women's issues;
and (b) establish
appropriate
institutional
linkages to carry out
this mandate.
Ln. 3206    Schedule   I          C        9/30/90                 Establishment of     Completed with
CM          5,1 (g) (i)                                            committee for        delay
ECAM                around May 1991.
Ln. 3206    Schedule  SPC-        C        6/30/91                 Adoption of          Completed with
CM          5,2. (a)    adm.                                       statements of        delay
(ii)                                                   population policy   around February
and health sector   1993.
policy
Ln. 3206    Schedule  SPC-        C        12/31/92                Introduce essential   (i) Drugs: in
CM          5,2. (a)    adm.                                       generic drugs and    progress; and
(ii)                                                   cost recovery       (ii) Cost recovery:
systems in all public  Started in hospitals;
healt faciities Enacted late 1994
health fcilities for health centrers



- 25 -
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present   Original     Revised      Description of      Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment    Covenant
Date        Date
Ln 3206     Schedule  SPC-       CP       12/31/91                Ensure that the    Being finalized
CM          5,2. (a)    adm.                                      program budgeting   under the health
(iii)                                                 system and the     sector project.
budget monitoring
system are in place.
Ln. 3206    Schedule  SPC-adm   CP        3/31/92                 Adoption of a      Not completed
CM          5,2 (c)                                              statement of policy   due to the
incorporating an   cancellation of
operational strategy   Canadian
and a multisector    financing.
plan to enhance the
role of women in
development
Ln. 3206    Schedule  PIA        CP       12/31/92                Conduct with the   Not done. Delayed
CM          5,3.                                                  Bank a joint review   due to suspension
of the progress of    of disbursements.
the Project and, on
the basis of this
review, take any
measure deemed
appropriate by the
Borrower and the
Bank.
Covenant Type:                                              Present Status:
PIA            Project implementation arrangements          C      Covenant complied with
F              Financial                                    NC     Not Complied with
M/R            Monitoring/Reviews                           CP     Complied with partially
R              Remedies                                     CAM   Covenanlt amended
SPC-adm.       Sector policy conditionality-administrative
SPC-allocative  Sector policy conditionality-allocative change



- 26 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Description and comment on lack of
compliance
1. O.D. 10.60 Accounting, financial reporting   Delays in submission of audit reports for
and auditing                                1991/92,1992/93 and 1993/94.
2. O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (para. 4)  The Bank did not allocate Bank staff and
other resources commensurate with the
nature, complexity and size of the project.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Planned       Revised           Actual
Stage of
project cycle                  Weeks          Weeks             Weeks
Preparation to                  NA             NA                124.4
appraisal
Appraisal                       NA             NA                 20
Negotiations through            NA             NA                 13.8
Board approval
Supervision                    145.3           176.8             206.4
Completion                       2.0                               9.0
TOTAL                                                            373.6
NA=Not Available
Source of data: Forms 590 and Cost Accounting System.
Comments: Data on input/resources paid by trust funds was not available. Staff weeks
in the table above represent only the Bank's input in the project.
The breakdown for Bank's financial input for fiscal years prior to FY94 is not available. A lump sum
of US$593,700 was spent prior to FY94. Original planned cost for FY94 was US$45,000, later
revised to US70,900 and actual cost was US$62,000. US$22,200 is expected to be spent after FY94.
A total amount of US$686,800 is estimated to have been spent by the Bank on the SDA project.



- 27 -
Table 13A: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
|  Stage of    Month/year       of      Days in  Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-        Types of
Stage of  Month/year  of       field    staff skills   tation         ment        Tpso
Project cycle                   persons             represented      status     objectives    problems
Through appraisal  Feb - Dec    29           356       PMS; E;      NA            NA            Innovative-
1989                               WIDS; ES;                               ness and
HRS; RMO                                complexity
CAS; HS;                                of project
EDS; L;
OA                                                  ll
Appraisal through   Feb -         10         120       E; L; PA;    -             -             Co-
Board approval      August                             ES; HS; PO                               fioancing
1990         __
Supervision         Oct. 1990 -  33          376       E; FA;       3             2             PDO; CLC;
March                              HRS; RA;                                 AOF; DL;
1993 (8                            RMO;                                    PMP;
missions)                          WIDS; S;                                 SP
LO; EDS;
l ___________                                          PO;  A        _                                      l
Completion          November   I             10        HRS
1994
Symbols:
NA= Not Available
Specialization:
A = Architect; CAS = Country Assessment Specialist; E = Economist; EDS = Enterprise Development Specialist;
ES = Employment Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; HRS = Human Resource Management Specialist; HS = Health
Specialist; L = Lawyer; LO = Loan Officer; OA = Operations Assistant; PA = Project Assistant; PMS = Project
Management Specialist; PO Project Officer; RA = Research Assistant; RMO = Resident Missionz Officer;
S = Statistician; WIDS = Women in Development Specialist.
Types of problems for performance:
AOF = Availability of Funds; CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL = Disbursement Lag.OS = Overall
Status; PDO = Project Development Objectives; PMP = Project Management Performance; PP = Procurement
Progress; SP = Studies Progress; TAP = Technical Assistance Progress; TP = Training Progress.
No training specialist or capacity building specialist in any stages of the project.
1)   At cancellation, the project overall rating was 4.



- 28 -
Table 13B: Bank Resources - Supervision Missions
Supervision     Month   No. of   Days    Spec.               Performance Rating by Type of Problems
lYear    Pers    in       Skills
Field            OS   PDO   CLC   PMP   AOF   PP  TAP  SP    DL
Supervision #1      10/90       2      16   E; HS      2     2      2      2       3     -    -    -   100%
Supervision #2       2/91       6      12   E; HS                -      -      -     -      -               -
(590 not available)                          FA;
HRS;
RA;
RMO
Supervision #3       5/91       3      16   E;HRS
(590 not available)                          RMO
Supervision #4       9/91       6      12   E;S;       3     2      2      2       3     2    2    2    72%
WID
RMO
Supervision macro    1/92       3       8   E;S        -     -      -      -     i
modeling follow-
up (590 not
available)
Supervision WID      5/92       2       7   E;WID      -     -      -      -
follow-up (590 not
available)
Supervision #5       6/92       5      12   E;FA       2     2      2      2       2     2    2    2    80%
Supervision#6        3/93       6      11   E;S;       3     3      3      2       3     2    2    3    74%
RMO;
HRS
Total                 ~~~~33
Performance rating symbols:
AOF = Availability of Funds; CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL = Disbursement
Lag.OS = Overall Status; PDO = Project Development Objectives; PMP = Project Management
performance; PP = Procurement Progress; SP = Studies Progress; TAP = Technical Assistance Progress;
Specialization:
E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; HRS = Human Resource Specialist; HS = Health Specialist;
RA = Research Assistant; RMO = Resident Mission Officer; S = Staticistician; WID = Women in
Development Specialist.



29
MISSION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE          pagpedif 3
EVALUATION FINALE DU PROJET DIMENSIONS SOCIALES
DE L'AJUSTEMENT (DSA) - CAMEROUN
(17 au 25 novembre 1994)
PROCES   VERBAL
Une mission de la Banque Mondiale conduite par Mme Regina
AMADI, Consultante, a  e6journ6 a Yaounde du 17 au 25 novembre 1994
pour faire une 6valuation finale du Projet Dimensions Sociales de
l'Ajustement.
Pendant son s6jour, la mission a eu a s'entretenir avec
les differentes autorit6s administratives, les Bailleurs de fonds et
lee responsables concernes par le Projet. La liste est jointe en
annexe 1.
1/ - La mission  a,  au cours des discussicns avec  les
responsables camerounais, expliqu6 le sch6ma que devait emprunter
lee projets de rapports  preailablement  etablis  par  eux.  Blle  a
egalement indiqu6 les points essentiels que devraient contenir lee
rapports ainsi que la necessit6 de faire sur chaque point la part
des   responsabilit6s   entre   la   Banque.   le  Gouvernement   et
l'administration.
20/  -  La  partie  camerounaise,  au  cours  des  diverses
seances de travail avec la mission. a fait des observations tir6es
de la pratique sur le terrain et a souhait6 que la Banque en tienne
effectivement compte, meme si elles vont a l'encontre des principes
contenus dans le Rapport d'6valuation de la Banque du Pr&t 3206 CM.
30/ - Au cours de la seance de travail de synthese qui
s'est tenue le 26 novembre  1994 au siege du Projet DSA et qui  a
reuni lee Chefs de Modules dil Projet (voir annexe 2), des 6changes
francs et fructueux ont permis de relever les points saillants. Ces
points concernent lee problermes rmajeurs ayant affect6 aussi bien
l'61aboration  du  Projet  que  son  execution.  Par  ailleurs,  les
perforMances  de  la  Banque,   deg  diff6rent3 -Bailleur3  et   du
Gouvernement ont 6t6 passe6es en revue. Cet exercice a permis de
tirer des  lecons du passe  et  de  faire  des  recommandations  pour
l'orientation future du Projet maintenant que le profil de pauvret6
au Cameroun est maltrise.
POUR LA BANQUE MONDIALE                     L'ADMINISTRATEUR DU CTC/DSA
Mm r~egind AMADI
MmUA S                                             -a



30
Appendix A
Page 2 Of 3
L.I STE; DE;S   ETIFT; SES 0O    3        F      or;JTRE;E;S
ORGANISME      NON                            TITRE
DSA            M. ATEBA Isidore               ADMINISTRATEUR
M. SEIBOU Frangois Xavier   ADMINISTRATEUR-ADJOINT
M. OYANE NSOLA Josu6          AGENT COMPTABLE
M. ESSAMA Dieudonne           CHARGE D'ETUDES
MINSANTE
MINSANTE POP.  M. Martin BALEPA               DIRECTEUR NATIONAL
DU 2e RESCENCEMENT
DE LA POPULATION (MINPAT)
NINEDUC        M. Robert NBELLA MBAPPE        MINISTRE
FNE            M. Camille MOUTE a BIDIAS   DIRECTEUR GENERAL
M. Benjamin KISSO             CONSEILLER TECHNIQUE
M. Richard GAROUA             CHEF DIVISION PROGRAMME
M. Paul KINGUE JOHNSON        CHEF DIVIISION ADMINISTRA-
TIVES ET FINANCIERES
MINASCOF       Mme ETEME                      CHARGE D'ETUDES
CAPACITE DE
PLANIFICATION M. Andre NGASSAM                SOUS-DIRECTEUR DE LA
STATISTIQUE
PNUD           M. Michel BALIMA               REPRESENTANT RESIDENT
M. Anthony WOOD               REPRESENTANT RESIDENT
ADJOINT
M. Jean-Claude NWAHA          ECONOMISTE
CIDA           M. Pierre MARION               CONSEILLER (COOPERATION)
PRODEC         M. NDAM ADAMOU                 CHEF DE LA GELLULE PRODEC
MISSION
RESIDENTE      M. KINGSON APARA               CHARGE PROJET DSA
M. Joseph NTANGSI             RESPONSABLE ECONOMIQUE



3 1                      Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
REUNION DU 24 NOVEMBRE 1994
(MISSION Regina AMADI)
FICHE DE PRESENCE
NO( ET PRENOM                  ORGANISME
REGINA AMADI                  BANQUE MONDIALE (CONSULTANT)
SAMUEL BATEKI                 MINEFI.. (ex-MINPAT) INSPECTEUR GENERAL
NJIEMOUN ISAAC                 CAA
NGASSAM ANDRE                 MINEFI (DSTAT)
DIBANDA EMMANUEL              MINSANTE CT1/PSFM
ATEBA ISIDORE                  ADMINISTRATEUR DSA
MOUTE a BIDIAS CAMILLE         DG/FNE
KINGUE - JONHSON PAUL         DFA/FNE
TENKU                          COMPTABLE CTC/DSA
ROSALIE MAKONI ETEME          CEA1/DEPE/MINASCOF
OYANE NSOLA JOSUE             AGENT COMPTABLE CTC/DSA
NDAM ADAMOU                   CHEF PRODEC






32                                   Appendix B1
Page 1 of 16
COMITE TECHNIQUE DE COORDINATION                 REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN
DU PROJET                               Paix:-Trax-ail-Patrie
DIMENSIONS SOCIALES DE L'AJUSTEMENT                          ------
CELLULE DE GESTION
:                                                                                !
PROJET DSA-CAMEROUN
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION FINALE
OCTOBRE 1994



33                            Appendix B1
Page 2 of 16
Pr).J ErT   D  A)        A -   CPi  Ef JR il
rAr-PJT& f  D) rEVALUIAiFifO  J  'i FiLiJ\l r
Lances en 197  car le Proqramme Racional du 9NUD oour
'Africue. la Banaue Africaine de Deve:oopement (BAD) et la Bansue
Mondiale (BIRD),  les programmes DSA ont comme obiectif orinclial
d'aider   les   couvernements   participants   &   integrer   leurs
or6occucations  sociales  dans  la conceotion  de  leurs  programmes
d'ajustement  structure!    et  sans  leurs  differents  plans  de
develoooement.  C'est  dans  ce  sens  que  le  Gouvernement  de  la
Republicue  du  Cameroun,  conscient  de  ce  que  les  populations
vulnerables ne seraient pas en mesure d'attendre les avantaaes que
le Programme  d'Ajustement Structurel(PAS) lance pour la prem'iere
fois au Cameroun en 1988 pourrait  leur apporter ulterieurement,  a
convenu de faire de la lutte contre la pauvret6 un objectif
fondamental de sa strategie'de relance au-meme titre aue la relance
de l'economie. Il a ainsi entrepris, avec l'appui de la BIRD, de la
BAD et d'autres Bailleurs de fonds de developper au sein de son PAS
un volet social dont les principaux objectifs etaient
- la protection des couches sociales pauvres et
vulnerables pendant l'application du PAS et
- la participation desdites couches au orccessus de
relance economique.
L'innovation  de   ce  orojet   tient  A  son   caractbre
experimental et multisectoriel  En effet, c'est pour la oremiere fois
que le Gouvernement du Cameroun a lance un orojet social C'une telle
envergure concernant A la fois les secteurs tels que la sante,  la
population. la femme dans le d6veiopoement, l'education, l'emrlci,
le developpement communau aire et la cadre institutionnel.  C'est
6calement pour la premi6re fois cu'une di_aine de bailleurs de fonds
auront ainsi ete sollicites pour un support financier A un seul et
meme projet2.
Outre la BIRD, la BAD. le Japon et l'ACuI avec lescue'ls les
rngociations   ont  abouti  A  des  signatures  des  accords  ou  de
protocoles d'accord en date du 03 AoOt 1990 pour la BIRD,  du 27
Decembre 1990 pour la BAD et le FAD, du 26 Juin 1991 pour l'ACDI et
du  20  Juin  1990  pour  le  JAPON , des  Bailleurs  de  fonds!  en
l'occurrence  la  Communaute  Europ6enne,  la  Republicue  Federale
d'Allemagne, la France, 1'USAID, le PNUD. le FNUAP, ont dgaiement ete
6troitement associ6s A la ohase des negociations du projet en vue
d'un support financier bien determine. Le gap de financement ayant
resulte du desistement de ces !erniers represente 50 % de 1 'enveloppe
globale de financement estimee lors des negociations du proiet A
Washingtcn en f4vrier 1990 A 85,7 millions de dollars U.S.
A ce jour, la Banaue Mondiale, Chef de file des Bailleurs
de fonds et de surcrot administrateur ces dons jaconais et canadiens
avant decide de cl6turer  le soide de   son pr4t,  il convient  de
dresser A ce stade un bilan dvaluatif du Proiet sur le double plan:
- des objectifs et de la mise en oeuvre du projet et
- des performances ces diff6rents intervenants pendant



-   34_                           Appendix BI
Page 3 of 16
la oreoaration et la mise en aeuvre du Droiet.
A - OBJECTIFS ET MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET DSA
Le  Cameroun  s'etant  assure-  cue  le  Proaet  DSA  =tait
prioritaire et r4alisable. s'est associe a la SIRD et a la SAD dans
les dif-Frentes Doases de concect'cr^n, Ce cr6oaratian et d'e.xUt1aion
du Proiet. Le travail des exoerts aurat -te davantace fac-lites
des donnees `,ables oermettant de mieux cioler les coucres sosazles
les olus cauvres avaient ete disoonibles.  Le ceu de renseionements
existants et de surcrcit oeu ^iables a laiss6 entrevoir la n6cessitd
d'inclure dans le proaet le volet "Capacite de planification et base
de donnees" a c8te d'autres modules non moins importants. Le orobieme
pose ici est moins celui de l'identification Ou de la definition des
modules cue celui du choix des priorit_s d'intervention. Ce choix
devrait etre orealable a la mise en place des programmes DSA sous
peine de s'aoercevoir plus tard cue des pans importants du prcgramme
n'auront pas retenu toute l'attention necessaire. La lutte ccntre la
pauvrete dans le cadre du Projet uSA a ete d6finie A travers un
programme modulaire dont les principaux axes furent
- ''appui a un processus fondarmental de conception de
oolitique dans les secteurs ssciaux;
- 1es programmes d'action d'urgence pour satisfaire les
besoins pricritaires tant aue las reformes coliticues
d'ensemble ne sont pas encore en place et,
- le renforcement des institutions oour aoouver la r=forme
et 7es programmes d'act-ion naissants.
- - Module oooulation
L'objectif vise est d'aider le Gouvernemert a d6velopoer
sa politicue ddmograDoh-ue et ses strat=cies  c-erationnelles en vue
d'une reducticn au Cameroun du taux de m rrtalitL et d'ur.e me,lleure
maitrise du taux ce croissance drmographicue.
Parrmi  les  modules  definis  par   e e  projet-,  le  volet
popu7ation acoara it ccmme ceiui aont ie arooramme init-alement arrete
aura 4tc le mieux rdalis6. En .ait, et meme si la plupart des travaux
auront eta mends avec l'aide du FNUAP et de I'USATD, ce volet a le
merite d'avcir a ce jour  produit  une  "Declaration  de  Rolit,que
Demographioue"  aporouvee  -par  la  BIRD  et  promulau9e  par   le
Gouvernement. Les principaux buts vises par ladite pcliticue
etaient :
- creer un eouilibr~e entre la croissance de la
popu,ation et le d6veloppement des ressources du
pays;
- rdguler la fecondite en sensibilisant.les
populaticns sur la perent' responsable et en
promouvant le planning familial et l'espacement
des naissances
- acc4lerer la baisse du taux de mcrtalite et de
morbidite et
- inwtensi.ier la lutte contre la st:rilite et- les
maladies sexuellement transmissitles.
1  convient tcut de meme de ncter cour le stigmatiser oue
i'acport  du wrcie.  i ci  devait  sur,out  ccnsist-r  A  assurer  la
vulcarisatiorn  de  la  politicue  sectorielle  ainsi  d6finie  par
l'crcan'saticn des collooues et s6m-Inalres. ueci n'a maliieureusenent
cas ;t4 fa5t de maniere satisfa-sante. 11 en est de m4me cu programme
de f-cr-a-'r zcrW a,-entit-,on in'ia1le a for:emen: et: en_amee oar



35
Appendix BI
Page 4 of 16
le a cancemer. d-es s.ructures et des hoimmes chargees ce les dir,gcer
a i'a' ministere du Plan et de I'Amrnagemer,t du d eru tz_re.
2  -  -t,du'e Sante    J
Le V3i e. san.edu rIeV DSJ  comrnrtait:,.-e   e aDor_.Isr
d _.-e  co    CL;=- e  Su  s  c.u ts r  e. u=  or-- e: _' rR_ _- Z-        ,ur
a,me,,orer les services de sante~'  cra,-ve_   rv-        -ete
at  -a d c   ae '.oz t ces _aca_.-e   ns  t.orln e:  zas   ce s2i- eur.
S'ag-ssan  Hde la fin-,   n z'un2 coIi e se. reei Ie en
r,7azbera ;de santze  i'aizocrt  du crodet CSa aura s_ r o>. dt  la soutien
loc-stiaue   et   V'assistance    technique   et   f nanciere   dans
'orcanisation .des  atelliers  na_%onaux  at  prs,-n_,aux  sur  las
ccnt-raintes du secteur et ses nouvelles or,entaticns cavrnt ressortir
dans la 'D3clarat,on de Poliftique" . Cette "Decaratsr de Politicue"
en cours d'adoption,  compoort   des  objectifs qua,-titatifs et des
strategies opdrationnelies. II s'asit des mecanismes zour coordonner.
contrcler et bvaluer les programmes a moyen terme dans l'ootioue
d'une reorientation des investissements -du Gouvernement pour  des
solutions  a des  problemes  epidemiologiques  prioritaires.  de  la
oromotion des ONG el du secteur prive ainsi que la participation
communautaire.  11 est a noter cue le syst6me ce recouvrement des
coats qui ficure en bonne place dans cette politicue est enzre dans
sa phase d'exp4rimentation.
Parce  qu'il  n'existait   pas  de  syszarme  c6ndral   de
recouvrement des coCits.  le programme d'action d'urcence du secteur
sante concernait i'achat et la distribution des m =4 d -caments juas
essentiels ains- cue des croduits charma5ceuticues dont les stocks se
sont epuisds du fait des con-traintes budgetaires au Gouvernement
depuis 1986. Ii concernait egalernent dans ce Comx- ne des soins de
sante  primaire,  la r6instauration  de  la cual-i_t des  soins,  la
refection et l'ecuioement ces centres de sante at des hdoitaux de
re.^erence de premier plan . A ce jour. lesdits rn4dcaments cnt ee
accuis oour une valeur de 793 1i:  -F= at le oetit equiope,nent medical
prevu pour un montant de 60 31A 5:e5 FCCA est entierement disoonible.
Ouant aux travaux ce r6fect_cn.  uis ont et- effe__:.s o0ur  une
dizzaine de postes de sante env-iron. Pour des besoins de logisticue,
c'in  voitures de terrain ont et4 acqu,ses et une autre est en cours
d'accuisition.  Le Don  japonais  Gui supportait  ces  ceoenses  est
presou'epuise, mais il reste neanmoins 200 mill,ons de francs CFA
environ obtenus par l'effet mecanicue de la ddvaluation.
3  - Module Education
Dans ce domaine,  1 'cbjectif  du  couvernement dtait  ae
developper   une  politique   adrcuate   en   mati_re   d'education,
d'entreprendre un plan d'action visant a reconstituer les stocks de
materiel educatif; et de ren.Forcer les capacites institutionnelles
des  Ministeres  de  l'Education  Nationale  et  de  l'Enseignement
Suporieur  en  matiere  de  plani'ication,  de  bud^4tisation  et  de
coordination des operations sectcrielies.
Etant donnd que  les ascects conception de politicue  et
rer.Forcement des institutions de ce crogramme sectolri Cevaient etre
oris en comote zar le oroiet Ecucatior et Format-cn ororessionnelle
(pr4t BIRD n' 225,-33-0m. seul le orogramme d'action d'urgence devait
't-e f4nance par 7e Proiet ,)SA. Nla'-eureusement. e contrairement aux
,_ 1 __- _'--   '- _-.~' "_,,', ,1 ,       ,_ 5 - '  r- cn  r - S-e COm rios "noe dU



36
Appendix Bl
Page 5 of 16
administrative tant d6criee au sein du Ministere de tutelle mais
aussi A la ricid-z^ des procedures de la Bancue Monadals . Aussi.
l'acauisition des tables-bancs et du materiel c6dacoaiaue dont les           -
dossiers  d'AoDel  d'Offrres  avaienz  Pourtant  ateIlMt  un  stad-e
suffisamment avance, n'a pas Pu s'effectuer pour un montant de
972 000 000 de  rCFA. E'le  oourrait se faire dans le cadre c'un
proaramme ultdrieur- du type "Programme Social d'Urcence" (PSUl ou DSA
bi.s.
- -rn c i
L'emnloi  reste  une  oreoccuoation  essentielle  Dour  les
autorites camerounaises.  Aussi   le orojet DSA s'est-i7 donne pour
objectif, entre autres. de se oencher sur ce prob!6me par une serie
de mesures visant.a ameliorer le fonctionnement du marche du travail
et a promouvoir la creation de nouveaux emplois. Les principales
actions pour promouvoir l'emploi dans le cadre du projet devaient
etre menees par le Fonds National de l'Emploi (FNE) a travers  les
cinq axes ci-apres
a - la collecte systematique d'informations sur la
formation et les possibilites d'emploi et la
transformation de ces informations ;
b - le renforcement de la formation Drofessionnelle
classicue
c - l'apoui A la formation en entreorise
d - l'appui aux activites individuelles visant l'auto-
emcloi ;
e - l'aopui consultatif et financiere pour la creation
et 1'extension des micro-entreprises.
Outre ce programme dont 1 'evaluation des objectifs est pre4sentde
en annexe par- l'organisme d'ex6cution (FNE) u i j ouit d'une autonomie
de gestion, le volet Emploi avait egalement en charge. non seulement
d'assurer le renForcement institutionnel du Ministere du Travail et
de  la prevoyance sociale mais  aussi  de relancer  'es travaux de
l'EnquAte sur  la main d'oeuvre.  Les  travaux ce lancement  ainsi
attendus n'ont pu se faire pour- des raisons A la fois financiAre et
institutionnelle.
5 - Femme et Develosoement
Le Projet DSA A travers le Module Femme et Developpement
s'est voulu le moyen d'introduire  des changements politiques  et
institutionnels      dans   le   but   d'alleger   les   contraintes
multisectorielles qui entravent la oleine participation de la Femme
au developpement. Ce module qui devait etre soutenu car las f6nds BAD
et le Don Canadien avait donc pour mission de promouvoir
- une oolitique definissant une strategie oo6rationnelle
et son execution par le biais d'un plan d'action
multisectoriel
- des actions spocifiques pour, non seulement initier un
orocramme d'informations, d'education et de
communication mais aussi r4orienter les services
d'acoui existants pour les femmes vers la promotion
des activites rentables durables et productives
-  l'introduction de mesures colitiques et de
renforcement des institutions.
Malheureusement. le module n'a pas pu bendficier du support



37
Appendix B1
Page 6 of 16
S'agissant de la ddfinition de 1a oolitiaue sectorie11e.
les travaux ci-apr6s oeuvent e.re consideres comme deja acheves
- l'valuation du role et de la situationrde la femme,;
- Videntification ces contraintes oui limiten_ sa
oarticioation au develoocement economique
-l'identification des programmes et des a.ocroches
pouvant oermettre de lever ces contraintes
- la recommandation des activit6s concretes oour
ameliorer la contribution et la carticication des
femmes au d6velopoement ; et
- l'identification des canaux institutionnels adequats
pour l'aoplication de ces recommandations.
C'est la le resultat de la tenue de multioles seminaires
et surtout des studes menees portant sur
- Femmes dans le secteur informel et le credit
- Etude-diagnostic sur les capacites de planification du
MINASCOF
- Situation de la Femme
- Causes de deperdition scolaire des femmes.
II convient de signaler ici que malgre cueloues di-ficultes
liees aux lourdeurs administratives.  l'elaboration finale du Plan
d'Action Strategique. document de politioue sectorielle de base en
vue de son adootion,  reste bloquee a cause d'un mancue crucial de
f inancement.
Quant  au oroaramme  d'action  du module,  il consiste  A
developper 1'information. 1'education et la communication pour le
milieu feminin et a reorienter les services d'assistance du MINASCOF
dans les zones urbaines et rurales. Aussi, le projet a-t-il eu a
financer l'assistance technique. 1'achat des ecuioements roulants,
des equipements pour le service d'information et de documentation.
la formation du personnel et la production du mater-iel devant servir
a !'information.
6 - Caoacit6 de clanriication et base de donnees
Conscient de ce que le mancue d'outils aoproories pour
simuler l'impactdes choixde politique economiquesur la repartition
des revenus et de l'emploi d'une cart. et l'absence d'une base de
donnees fiables qui oermette de mesurer la oauvrete et de suivre les
conditions de vie des menages d'autre part, constituent les deux
pr.incipaux problemes oui emopchent  l'integration des DSA dans  la
prise des decisions macro-sconomicues et sectorielles,  le module
'capacite  de  olanification  et   informations  de  base"  a  ets
specialement  int4cr6  au  sein  du  projet  pour  pallier  cette
insuffisance.
La sous-comoosante "caDacite de planification oui devait
renforcer les caoacit6s de la Direction de la Planification de 1'ex
Ministere du Pian et de l'Amenaaement du Territoire afin de prendre
en  compte  les va lets  revenus  et  emoloi  dans  l'&laboration  des
strateaies  macro-4concmiques   et   integrer   les   resultats   des
simulationis dans i'elaboration des PAS n'a malheureusement pas pU
s'ex6cuter en raison du desistement du PNUD aui cevai,t le financer.
Ou;. a le sous-comoosante  Base de Conn,es` sui.. confi4e



38                              Appendix BI
Page 7 of 16
d'identifier les groupes vulnerables et de suivre le niveau de vie
des  differentes  couches  de  la  population  durant  le  processus  _
d'Ajustement, elle a ete essentiellement fondee sur la mise en oeuvre
d'une  Enquete  Camerounaise  Auor6s  des  Menaaes -(ECAM)  et -sur
l'leaboration d'un  indice  svnthdtique  des Pr-x. A ce jour,  les
travaux  preparatoires  de ces deux  activites sont ashevts,  voire
plusieurs fois reactualises. Line oartie des 41uCoenents. notamment
informaticues acquis pour une valeur de 52 594 1A8 FCFA. Seul  le
materiel roulant et le fonds de roulement retardent le lancemert de
l'ensemble de l'oopraticn.
7 - Procramme de Develoooement Communautaire (PRODEC)
Pour *renforcer la politique gouvernementale d'appui aux
activites locales, un programme de developpement communautaire urbain
a ete concu comme mecanisme financier et institutionnel.
Le  PROCEC a ainsi  pour  but  d'apporter  une assistance
financiere aux ONG, aux grouDes communautaires et aux individus ayant
besoin d'un financement pour
- des infrastructures sociales d'echelle reduite
profitant a la communaute ;
- des services sociaux dans les secteurs de l'hvgiene,
de la sante. de l'education, de la formation et de la
nutrition
- l'appui A la gestion de petites entreprises simples
et
- des activites d'echelle reduite generatrices de
revenus.
Bier. qu'ayant demarre  avec un important retard lid aux
procedures de mise en vicueur des fonds des prets, les activit6s du
PRODEC ont atteint A ce jour leur rvthme de croisiere. Le financement
de certaines activites communautaires et surtout des micro-orojets
productifs a effectivement commence au cours de l'exercice budgetaire
92/93 dans quatre provinces pilotes. A ce jour 151 micro-Projets ont
dt6 finances pour FCFA 455 250 396 selon le tableau joint en annexe.
Avec l'appui de la bancue Africaine de Develoopement, de
nouveaux  am6nagements tant  financiers  que de procedure  ont  ete
effectues en vue de faire. face aux multiples probl6mes rencontres
depuis le lancement de l'operation.
8 - Renforcement-institutionnel
Parmi les objectifs du projet DSA, le cadre institutionnel
occupe une place de tout premier choix. En effet, la reorientation
et la mise en oeuvre des strategies multisectorielles necessitent la
mise en place de reformes institutionnelles et le renforcement de la
capacite de planification, de coordination et d'Evaluation desdites
structures.   Aussi.  une   Etude-Diagnostic   des   capacites   de
olanification du Ministere des Affaires Sociales et de la Condition
Feminine, du Ministere du Travail et de la Prevoyance Sociale et de
1'ex Ministere du Plan et de 7'Amenagement du Territoire a-t-elle ete
menee par l'Instiut Suopr,eur de Management Public (ISMP). D'autres
travaux de m6nre nature au financement hors DSA ont 6t6 entreoris pour
les secteurs Sante. Education et Enseignement Suporieur.
B - EVALUATION CRITIOUE DES PERFORMANCES DES INTERVENANTS
ET SUGGESTIONS



39
Appendix B1
Page 8 of 16
La mise en oetuvre du Projet DSA s 'est effectuee dans Lin
cadre assez s6ecial oCi les fruits du succAs et surtout des echecs
doivent etre imrput6s non seu-lement au GouLVernement camerouLnais mais
aussi au-; Bailleurs de  fonds ayant souscrit a son financement et
notamnierit A la Banrioue Mondiale.
1 - Performances dit Gorx-ernement camerounais
La  contribrit ion  dLu  GouIVernement  cameroun;.is  dans  la
rpreparation et Ia mise en oeurre du Projet DSA veut et-.e armr6hendde
SOaLS plusieLirs formes.
1.1 - Ressources uirbaines
En matiere de ressources humaines, il fauLt reconnaitre les
efforts consentis par le Gouivernement en rue de doter les structures
de coordination et d'animation dui Projet DSA d'rin personnel qualifie
de hauit rang et de haut niveau. A cet effet, non seulement le
oersonnel administratif a ete mobilise, mais auissi le Gouivernement
a proc6de A un recrutement d'un personnel d'aDpoint capable d'assurer
certaines taches strictement liees A l'execution du Projet.
1.2 - Cadre instituitionnel
Le nrobl&me instituitionnel continue de representer ait
Cameroun  une  v6ritable  gierre  d'achoppement  auL'il  convient  de
contouirner. C'est pouLraluoi le souLci de la bonne ez;6cution du Projet
a commande que de nouX-elles structures de coordination et de suivi
soit cre6es afin d'assuirer un meilleur pilotage dii projet. tel fut
le cas dut Comite Technioue de Coordination du Projet reIrouoant une
douzaine de membres issus des ministeres ou structuLres impliqu6s de
pres ou de loin au projet. Tel fut egalement le cas des cellules de
coordination  et  de  suivi  creees  aut  sein  des  ministeres  ainsi
concernes.
1.3  -  Ressouirces financiteres
Le constat est clair qui veut qole la tension de tresorerie
que connaissent acttiellement  les finances publioues camerotinaises
n 'aura Das permis au Gouvernement d'honorer pendant longtemps ses
engagements financiers vis-a-vis dui Proiet. C'est ainsi qu'au 30 Juin
1994 et en dehors de la prise en charge dui personnel administratif
affecte au Projet, la contribuLtion financiere du Gotivernement ati
Projet DSA hors FNE ne s'levait qu'A 178 155. 180 FCFA. Mais il
convient neanmoins de  relever que  depuis  trois mois ce probleme
connait un debut de solkition,...et qaL'en dehors des arrieres dus au FYE
totus les salaires dIi personnel recrute ont ete pay6s stir ces fonds
et la couverture de 15 % de toutes les d6penses eligibles effectuees
A 85 % gar la Banque assuree. 
1.4 - Coordination
L'un des r8les les plus importants joue par l'emprunteur reste
la  coordination.   Grace   A   l'instauration   des  structures   de
coordination et de suivi citees  plus haut: le GouLvernement Ra ou
assurer d'une maniere louable le role de coordin2tion atti lLui etait
d.1voltt au  depart.  Aussi,  bien  au'accusant  souvent  des  retards
imputabies  au.i  systeme   administratif  en  place,  des  rapports
trimestriels et semestriels ont pu etre tant bien qrue mal achemines
au;x 2ailleurs de fonds. Il en est de meme des rapports d'audit dont
IP Tetard dans la o?rodu-ction incombe non setilement a la lourdeur des



40
Appendix BI
Page 9 of 16
multidimensionnel et a la diversite de ses sources de financement.
La Cellule de Gestion du CTC/DSA. v6ritable Doumon dans le ro1e de   -
coordination et de gestion de toute l'activitd ainsi decrite merite
une attention toute particuliere. Tel ne semble cas avoir 6td le cas
en  raison de  la non  representation  de  celle-ci  a la phase  des
n6gociations du Projet.
2 - Performances  des Bailleurs de fonds
Outre la oarticiopation -res aoor6ci6e de "a BIRD et de la
BAD dans les diff6rentes  ohases  de mise en oeuvre du Proiet,  la
contribution des Bailleurs de  cnds s'est surtout illustree en terme
financier.  La situation de  la BIRD en tant cue chef de file des
Bailleurs de fonds et oar  cons6cuent orincipal  inzerlocuteur  de
Gouvernement  veut  que celle-ci  soit  aoDarue  comme  le levier  de
1 'ensemble des activit6s du Proice. La mise en oeuvre oroprement dite
du Proiet s'est heurtee a un certain nombre de difficult6s li'es
entre autres :
- au ddsencagement de certains bailleurs
- au decala,e dans la mise en vigueur des prets
- aux orocedures de decaissements
- a la susoension des d6caissements
- a la rigueur et multiolicitd des conditionnalites.
2.1 - DGsenaaoement des bailleurs
Le projet DSA-Cameroun etait assis sur le montant global
des besoins de financements tel cue defini pendant !es negociations
avec les bailleurs de fonds (85.7 millions de dollars U.S). En 1fin
de compte: le projet n'.aura beneficie Cue des seuls soutiens BI'RD,
BAD, Japon et ACDI sur la dizaine de bail'leurs convenue, soit un gap
de financement de 50 %. II convient ici de sionaler Cue  'ACDGI a dO
revoir le montant de sa contritution 2 la baisse au ccurs de
1'executicn du profet et que la BIRD, chef ce f-le ses tailleurs,
dont la contribution financi_re au projet reordsentait le quart de
1 'ensemble. a d6cidd de cl6zurer ie solde de son pr_t alors cue ores
de 80 % dudit or,t n'avait pas encore etd decaisse.  A ce iour ra
situation de la DSA se presente ainsi ou'il suit
- le Pret BIRD a ete cl6tur, oaui financait les activit6s
du FNE. dU PRODEC, ce V'ECAM.. de l'mploi  (Encuuete sur
la main-d'oeuvre)
- le Don Canadien (ACDI ) est 4puis6 et cl,turi cui appuyait
le Module "Femmes et Uevel-ppemen t;
- le Don Jaconais reste en vinueur et continuera a f,inancer
les moCdules Sant6 et Population
- 'e Pret BAD et le Don FAD son: et demeurent decaissables
en faveur des programmes du FNE et du PRODEC.
2.2 - D6calaae dans la mise en vicueur des cr4ts
Le pret BIRD est entre en v-Cueur  e 30 Janvier 1991,  le
dcn Jaoonais 4galement, celui de 1'ACD5 le 26 Juin 1991 et le orat
3AD  le  17 Jui'let  1991. La  mise  en  VICueur des  orets et  dons
s'oc4-rant ainsi a des dates diff4rentes aura beaucouo retardc  le
c4marrage du Oro,et car certairs moGu'es a firancem,ents conioints
scnt lonartemos restes av-c des enveloocces amputees a 50 %.



41
Appendix B1
Page 10 of 16
plafonds des ccmpt-s speciaux  et d'autre  part,  de  la procedure
inadat6e, de  leur mode de  renflouement.  Ces phenomenes ont  ete
aggraves par le chancement de oarite du franc CFA car le volume des
paiements en monnaie locals a sensibiement augmente lorsou'il n'a pas
tout simplement double.
2.4 - Susoens4on des decaissements
I1 s^  Cro Lve cue le Projet CSA, A l'instar des autres
projets  co-`inances  oar  la  BIRD,  n'a  jamais  fonctionne  sans
interruotion  oercant olus  Ce six mois en raison ces di,ferentes
susoensions dont. il fait p6riodiquement l'obje,. Le premier mode de
suspension s'opere lors 1uc l'Etat n'honore pas le service ce la dette
tandis que le second intervient. lorsque 'les fonds Ce contrecartie
allouLs au Projiet font defaut.
2.5 - Conditionnalites
Le ProJet OSA a enormement souffert de la multitude
de  conditionnalit4s  tant.  simples  que  croisees  aui  lui  ont  ete
imposees. A cela s'est ajoute le systeme d'octroi des "Non-Objection"
impose A chaque -Fois par la BIRD et juge tres inadaste pour ce type
de projet a caract-re social.
3 - SUGGESITONS
A partir de ce aui pr6cAde et- tant donne cue l'experience
des programmes DSA est appel6e A se renouveler et A se perpdtuer, oes
suggestions   devant  permettre   une   amelioration   sensible   des
performances peuvenv. etre emises dans les sens ci-apr6s
3.1 - Versernent des fonds de contreoartie
En raison des difficults ce trAsorerie sus- evoauees, le
versement des fonds de contrepartie ne doit olus constituer une
conditionnalit4 mrme  si  le  Gouvernement  doit 4tre tenu  de  les
mobiliser seicn ses possibilites.
3.2 - M4cdalit6s de finarcement
II s'est avere difficile et meme impossible. au delA des
promesses de contricutlon. de pouvoir mobi'iser tous les financements
requis. L'excprience nous amene ainsi a proposer cue pendant  les
ne_ociations pr4oaratoires,  les difFdrents baiuleurs de fonds soient
formellement  lies  par  un ...protocole  d'accord  qui  fixerait  non
seulement les nodalltes de financement. mais aussi !es dates limit.es
d'ent,re en vi-ueur des diverses contributions.
3.2 - Eliaitilit6 de noujvelles dboenses-
L'absence de fonds de contrepartie sugcere aue de nouv,el les
docenses soifent &i_ibles aux accords de prAt concernant notamment
les charges salariales, les lovers, les fra.s d'eau, a'alectricite,
de  ,4l4phcne et autres charges  de fonntionnement. Par ail7eurs,
cc.mpte tenu des di.ficultes de -,resorerie cue connaissent les Etats
qui mettent en oiace 7es proiets sociaux, il conviendrait cue toutes
les depenses so-ent supportees A 'uG % par les fonds des Bai7leors.
- Aocui A la formation et au renforcement des
4:ti;,r.jrAes de- aestion



42                             Appendix Bi
Page 11 of 16
apparaissent insuffisants face a ceux consentis aux orocrammes. Or,
ces orogrammes ne peuvent etre mis en oeuvre cue si la structure de
gestion se trouve en mesure de les soutenir pendant toute la dur6e
de leur executicn. De meme.  l'exoprience DSA 6tant aooelee A S9
renouveler, une Tormatior des orincioaux resoonsables de cestion etC
d'animation est tout a -Fait necessaires.
3.5 - Revision des olafonds des comotes soeciaux
Pour tenir compte de la devaluation et du volume croissant
des projets finances par le FNE et le PRODEC, et en raison des
lonaues susoensions aue connait souvent le Prolet. les olafonds des
comptes speciaux se doivent d'6tre redvises G la hausse.
3.6 - Nettovace des modules morts
Depuis le d6marrage du Projet DSA, certains modules n'ont
connu aucune evolution significative, les cb'jectifs oui leur ont ete
assignes  ne  cadrant  pas  avec  ceux  du  projet.  iI  convient  en
consequence de l 'en delester.  Par ail leurs. le Proiet DSA 6tant
conjoncturel, il ne faut pas lui confier des politiques poursuivant
des objectifs structurels.
3.7 - Suooression de 1 'aocort oersonnel en araent
L'exp6rience  vecue  montre  que  les  b4n6ficiaires  des
financements PRODEC et FNE eprouvent d'enormes difficult6s pour
liberer l'appcrt personnel en araent exige. Afin de permettre A ces
deux modules d'atteindre effec  ivement les populations cibles. il
convient Ce suoorimer purement et simplement cet apport, 1 'enga.ement
du promoteur restant a etre demontre par sa contribution en nature.
'..8 - Extension des activit6s du PRODEC
La pauvrete allant s'accentuant, 1I serait souhaitabie cue
les activites du PRODEC puissent bdn6ficier au plus crana nombre.
W'oO la necessite d'une extension des activites du module a d'autres
provinces.
3.9 - Simolification des oroccdures
Les procedures de la BIRD qui se sont finalement imoosees
a tous se sont averees lourdes et inadapt-es. II serait ooportun a
V'avenir qu'elles soient revues dans le sens de leur simplification
afin de s'assurer cue les objectifs du Projet sercnt ef,fectivement
atteints. A t"itre d'exemple, la non-cbjection globale pourra,t etre
donn4e semestriellement au vu du programme d'action.
3.10 - D6caissement sur budcet or6visicnnel
Pour accelerer le rythme de decaissement et d'executioni du
projet, la procedure de mise a disposition des fonds sur la base d'un
budget pr6visionnel annuel ou semestriel *des d6penses serait la mieux
indiquee.



4 3
Appendix 81
Page 12 of 16
ANNEXES



Appendix B1
Page 13 of 16
TABLEAU DE FINANCEMENT
PROJET DSA
DESIGNATION                  MONTANT
BIRD                                        21.5           25
Banque Africaine de Developpement           16.0           19
Communaute Europeenne                       10.0           12
Republique Federale d'Allemagne              7.7           9
Agence Canadienne pour le
Developpement International                  7.3           9
France                                       3.9           5
Agence des Etats-Unis pour le                3.5           4
Developpement International
Fonds des Nations Unies pour les            3.2            4
Activites en matiere de Population
Japanese yen grant facility                  1.0           1
Programme des Nations Unies pour             0.8           1
le Developpement
Gouvernement                                10.8           13
TOTAL                       85.7          100



4.5                                 Appendix  Bl
Page 14 of 16
SITUATION DES MNSULTANTS (HORS FNE)
I       MODULE          I NOM DU CONSULTANT I CAMEROUN  I EXTERIEUR I    OBSERVATTONS             I
IFEMME & DEVELOPPEMENTI AGRO PME              I 20 000 000o I             I 
I                       IAIRAD                I  1744 400 1               1                       i
I CAROLE LEPINE       I              I 90 675 0001                        I
I                       I PRIMA CONSEIL       I  9 986 550 1              i                       i
ICOFIGEST             I 7843 500 1                1                       1
1                       I I P D               1 6859 380 I                I  FORMATION
I C T I               I 2880 000 1                I FORMATION
i           I                     ~       ~     ~~I  I         Ii
I 49 313 830 1 90 675 0001
I   _       ,1                     1             1             1I  I  
ISANTE                  I MICHEL PELLETIER  I                1  5 985 0001
I Dr. MANGUELE        I  3 500 000 I              I EN COURS
I                       I DANIEL DOUPETTY     I              I 31 509 7001  EN COURS
I  3 500 000 1 37 494 7001
I  _ _ _ _   _  _  _   _   _  _  _   _  _  _    I  _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _   I  I__    _  _ _  _  _
IPOPULATION             I I D E P             I              I 7 010 2001  FORMATION EN COURSI
I           I                                 I              I            I                       I
ICAPACITE DE            I I S P M             I  7 400 1501               1                       1
IPLANIFICATION          I CHRIS SCOTT         I              1 4 367 4041                         1
i                       I BOMBO GWANDUA       i    712 500 i              I                       I
I~~~~                                     ~      ~      ~     ~~~~ Iii  II
I                       I                     I 8 112 650 1 4 367 4041                            1
I  _ _ _ _   _  _  _   _ I  ._ _ _   _  _  _    I  _ _ _ _  _ I  _  _  _ _ I  _ _ _ _  _  _  _   _ I
I                       I                .    I              I            I                       I
IPRODEC                 I RAKOTONDRAHAJA    I                1 29 650 0001                        I
I                       I NKOLO BIYIDI        I 6156 350 1                1                       1
I           I                     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~~I  I  i               iI
I                       I                     I  6156 350 129 650 0001                            I
I-                      I'I                                    I                                  I
IADMINISTRATION         I JUSTINE AGOH        I  1 520 000 I              I
IDU PROJET DSA          I TSOGO ONANA         I  3 984 750 1              1
I                       I KOOH & MURE         1 41 868 254 1              i EN COURS
I                       IF AA                 1 21 646 500 1              1
I  69 019     I 50  I___
I             I             II
I                ~~I                    1 69 019 504 1       0      1                       1
I             I             II
I       . TOTAL  GENERAL                      1136 102 334 1169 197 3041                          1
I  _ _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _ I  _ _ _ _    I  _ _ _ _  _ I  _ _ _ _  _  __      I



46
Ahw&  B1
Pag 15 d 16
ETAT DES CONSOMMATIONS ET DES FINANCEMENTS DU PROJET DSA-CAMEROUN
________   ________ FINANCEMENT
PREVISIONS REALISATIONS
EN MISSION        CFA      ENGAGEMENTS    BIRD         JAPON    CANAD   BAD ET FAD CAMEROUN
us$          NF
POPULATION
Cosulant & fmution             0.16       21519082
MltrI                          3.50        6690439
Fondlonnement                  1.00        9276250                                            _
4.66      37485771                              37485971
SANTE
Conulant                       0.32       40294700
Fornathon                     15.99       21527116
6hicules & fourntures m6d.     1.76      172754689        99964450
Fonctonnemt                    0.92       23361386
ReIcust en baNue                          31051123
18.90     2a8989014                             275914127                           1307487
EDUCATION
Mat6itl didsctiquL             5.43              0               0
Tabes, b.                      2.25              0               0
Foncdorm.rrsent                1.15              0               0
8.53
FEIME ET
DEVELOPPEMENT
Cosutnt & 6tude                0.90      109540532
Fomathon                       3.06       32159773
FoncUomment                   0.07       28364146
mat6bl                          1.76      76412509
Reliquat en benque                           70314
246547274                                       228252811                18294463
CAPACITE DE
PLANIFICATION
ConsLdbtt                       1.01      16719454
M*tAdl                         4.10       880826S8
Fendtionnement                 2.33        4432487
7.44     109234649                   96383901                                      128SO748
FNE & EMPLOI MTPS
FNE                           33.10    21555861840
Empwl f      end t                          355380 _                _
33.10    2155917220                   54375478                         811511967  820029775
PRODEC
P ng                           5.00      4560182
F      _ndlonnenient                      718212
Consultat                      0.80       36686735
Relput en bwque                          213485864
5.80     778566363                  274916005                         5036503
ADMINISTRATION PROJET
OSA
Consltat & fonmnlon                       81293364
M*Aefl                                    89966253
F     _n.--It                  0.96      245202503
Rekpet en beque                            3923501 
0.98     400385621                  267385704                                     1329S817



PROJT BSA - CMCROIJN   VALOATIM~ rINALE
I  BAILLEUR         I          ACTIONS             I          ACTI'JITES          I       COMME.NTAIRES         I     COUT    I NOMiBRE   I
l(SOtIRCE/FINANCEMENT) I         PROGRAMMIEES          I         RP.AI.1)r.f:S       I                            --               Ib (EMPLO IS I
I BiRD               IrFJNANCEMICNT MICRO-PRO.ICTS  I 69 MlICRO-PROJCTs riNANCF.S I I MICRO-PROJET MON PlNANCEI                 II
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I F.NTIEREMNET  I              I            I
13 DONS ET 66 PRETS           1 237 885 742 I    316    1
I BAD                I F[NANCEM1FNT MIICRn-PRfi:JETS  I 82 MICRCI-PROJETS FIHANCES I R A SIII
I5 DF INS FT 77 PRF.TS        I 211 364 654 I    329    I
I T 0 T A L          I                              I151 MICRO-PROIJETS FINANiCES I                              1  455 250 396 1    747 
COIJT MIOYiEN PAR EMPL0I       BIRD    748 068 F CFA/1 rFIIri.fl
BAD     660 682 F CFA/l C.MiI.-01 
TAUX DES ri CA[SSFE1ENTS EFFECTUES :30                                                                                                            0 H
DI1FFICULTES :    / SUSPENSIONS DES [IECAISSEMENTs                                                                                                -
2/ MiANOVE DE M10YEHS FINANICIERS ET MIATF.RIELS POUR i.F roNCTIONNiEMENT
SItlUIAITh      I/ MODIFIER IXrS PRUCF:IURI: DE DF(AISSEFflFiT 1): L.A BANOgUF
?/ ADOPT ER LES DECA[SSEMEFNTS SUR BUDOGET PREVISIOHNIE1. FT L.E PRINCIPE. DE SOUS-COMiPTE



48
Appendix B2
Page 1 of 9
RECAPITULATIF
i - Resume des Constats et des recommandations ;
2- Tableau des realisations des objectife
3 - Previsions de Financements pour les 4 prochaines
annees.



49
Appendix B2
Page 2 of 9
D'une maniere g6nerale, la realisation des objectifs de
d6part du FNE a ete tres perturbe par :
10) Le manque de ressources financieres du:
. aux multiples suspensions du Cameroun pour non-paiement de sa
dette,
A a la rarete des fonds de contrepartie.
20) Le retard dans le demarrage du Projet du fait des multiples condi-
tionnalites et l'instabilit6 de la Direction G6n6rale.
30) Les procedures longues des Bailleurs de fonds pour l'acquisition
des Biens et Services.
Neanmoins, le FNE a amorc6 dans tous les domaines prevus
(Diffusion des informations sur l'Emploi, Formations, Appui A l'Auto-cr6ation),
des activites determinantes.
I1 etait prevu de traiter 17.480 personnes en quatre ans, nous
avons A ce jour traite plus de 30.000 personnes.
Pour que le FNE atteinge ses objectifs, il faudra en priorit6
le resituer dans une perspective plus large le considerant non plus
comme une Institution 6phemere rattachee A un projet ponctuel et limit6
dans le temps (DSA), mais vu comme structure intangible incontournable,
et permanente pour assumer une situation de sous-emploi devenue une donn6e
fondamentale de toute economie au Sud et accentuee dans le cas du Cameroun.



50
Appendix B2
Page 3 of 9
*   Carazitir et accroitre les ressources du FNE, pour assurer la
realisation de sea programmes, et faire face aux attentes d'un
public de plus en plus consistant (Deflatage des effectifs de la
Fonctiori Publique, 20.000 personnes et privatisations en cours).
*   Faire en sorte que le FNE collecte directement les  ressources
d'origine nationale, dans un compte FNE (Hors Tresor Public)
concernant le produit du 1 % de la masse salariale payee par les
employeurs,  afin de garantir  A long terme  la stabilit6 des
ressources financiAres de cet organisme.
*   Re6valuer le volume des ressources necessaires pour que le FNE
soit a meme d'assumer ses missions au regard des besoins
croissants    d'insertion/reinsertion    et    de    formation
professionnelle. Pour un impact significatif dans ces domaines,
les financements devraient atteindre un minimum de 13,2 milliards
de F.CFA sur lee quatre prochaines annges.
* Elargir le champ d'interventions du FNE, en amont du traitement
de l'emoloi.
Si se ENE doit se consacrer en priorite a ses publics-cibles,
notammetit les deflates issus des restructurations, il doit pouvoir mieux agir
en amont pour prevoir ou att6nuer les pertes d'emplois.
-  Le FNE doit pouvoir mettre a la disposition des edtreprisses, des
servicen de conseil nationaux pouvant leg aider a mettre en place
la gest:on de leurs ressources humaines, mais aussi definir sur
leur demande, lee plans sociaux de restructuration.
Mais, cela suppose au prealable un appui du FNE pour la
constitution de v6ritables soci6t6s de conseil en gestion des ressources
humaines,  impliquant la formation de formateurs a l'6tranger,  aupr2a  des
firmes de reputation interrnationale.
-  Le FNE doit pouvoir offrir des formations "requalifiantes" a la
demande des entreprises, au profit des categories de personnel
n'ayant plus le niveau de qualification necessaire (compte tenu
de l'evolution du poste de travail) afin d'eviter un
licenciement.
*   Une r66valuation de notre activite a ete faite au sein du FNE, et
a abouti aux propositions suivantes
1.  Informatiser rapidement le FNE
2.  Garantir les ressources du FNE, en privilegiant, sur le plan des
ressources d'origine exterieure, les financements sous forme de
dons, pour soulager les charges de l'Etat sur un volet
essentiellement  social.   Pour  les  financements  our  prets,
preserver la non-suspension des fonds affectes a des volets tals
que I'emploi, dont la situation est directement affectee par les
conse6quence du PAS.
3.  Etendre  les activites du  FNE  sur  1'6tendue  du territoire a
travers des antennes provinciales.
4.  L'application du principe du controle "A posteriori" notamment au
niveau des depenses, et non pas de l'autorisation "A priori"
(non-objection) comme c'est le cas actuellement avec la BAD.



51
Appendix B2
Page 4 of 9
Avec comme cons6quence, une simplification du circuit de la
decision et de la mise en oeuvre des activites, le FNE agissant
dans le cadre de son programme d'activites (approuve) et rendant
compte ensuite au differentes structure de tutelle.
Cette mesure sera limitee dans le temps car elle permettre au FNE
d'acquerir lee equipements.
5. Etoffer lee ressources humaines du FNE.
Le FNE a pour singularit6 (innovation) d'assumer trois fonctions
(orientation/insertion, formation professionnelle, promotion des emplois
ind6pendants) dont la compl6mentarit6 est tout A fait pertinente, mais qui
sont generalement d6volues A trois structures distinctes dans d'autres pays.
Par ailleurs, les structures d'emploi sont par essence, a fort
coefficient de ressources humaines de par la nature des activites qu'elles
exercent.
Clest dire que le d6veloppement des actions du FNE passent par un
renforcement de ses ressources humaines tant en volume que sur le plan
qualitatif.
Le FNE requiert des specialit6s nouvelles qui ne sont pas
disponibles sur le march6 (Conseillers Emploi, Conseillers Entreprise...).
Elles impliquent donc le recrutement d'un personnel sp6cifique et form6 aux
missions du FNE.
Les besoins d'encadrement A moyen terme (horizon 1997) ont et6
estim6s A 45 cadres pour la DAIR et A 30 cadres pour la DP.
L'engagement de ce personnel sera A duree determin6e pour garder
le maximum de flexibilite dans la gestion de ces effectifs en fonction de la
charge de travail de chaque division.
A terme, ces sp6cialistes pourraient etre reconvertis vers la
cr6ation de petites socidt6s de conseils auxquelles le FNE sous-traiterait une
partie de ses activit6s actuelles.
- La formation interne du personnel du FNE sera une priorite et
devra donc entrainer des ailocations de ressources consequentes (pratiquement
omises dans le projet d'origine).
En conclusion, ltexperience vecue par le FNE dans le traitement
de l'Emploi au Cameroun nous amene a insister sur le fait que cet organisme
doit rester tel qu'il a 4t6 con,u des le d6part, A savoir : traiter de maniere
globale et int6grale l'emploi.
Quelque importante que puisse paraitre cette structure, elle reste
pour l'instant maitrisable et maitrisee.



52
Appendix B2
Page 5 of 9
I1 faudrait peut-Atre attendre que cet organisme ait atteint sa
vitesse de croisiere, pour envisager une restructuration de sea trois
principales activites.
.Un Accord sur les principales propositions ci-dessus permettrait
au FNE de remplir ses missions et d'atteindre avec plus d'efficacite ses
objectifs.



PME   SA - MM R : LAIATIO FItLE
MWO ME:   61 - FE
iAl                j                       ju                     .          i. I.-E;
DiAILLEUr                                      , C-IO2TAI:J;TEs        '3iC;_Hhi,E.- T         -'i'l
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.. Ir                                 : r 
PRET  BIRD :       . Programme d'appui a   . 167 projets           . 218 emplois gener6s; cofit'73.430Q000
1'auto-emploi            d'auto-Emplois       par projet    439.000 F
couit par emploi:341.OOOF
Programme freine par les
multiples suspensions
C Collecte et diffusion a) Publications       . Activit6s bien amorcees   9.375.500                     L
d'informations sur  '
1es possibi1ites de      " * Trait d'Union",   j mais beaucoup reste a f
f       w  1 i ~~depliants FNE,         faire pour une meillure               ;
P fo o  eplaquettes, Guide    connaissance du march6
i  du Chercheur d'FlPlbide 1'Eploi au Cameroun
*. Seminaires, Foires    450 Chefs d 'Entreprises   12.256.024.
Forum National de      Institutions de Formation;
1'Emploi (Avril 93)   & tous  les Partenaires
concernes par l'emploi
reunis
Salle d'informations;                            267.325
pour les Chercheurs
A d'Emploi             i"-                         i
I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Placement des Cher-    2.867 personnes    i; Activite en croissance au.              i-.
* cheurs d'Emploi          placees                d6part, mals perturbe par.  p M.
l'arriet du Fe E; elle a
bien redemaree.                      I



R-W :f5A -UITIDHFD ML
NOWUL  LVLI - FF
-A. :                  LN                 A    V T                    .......
BIRD 'sui.e)           Ai                      Conseillers-Emnloi  . Ces taches sont          149.744.588
\ S A~~ssistance Technique:
ina-hevees
-  Appui a la DAIR
. Rattrappage
Fichier
Traitement des          Premi6res etudes    .       Inachev6es         13.786.3i;2 
Informations au FNE     r6a-isles pour        Cette action d'infor-
l'informatisation     matisation du FNE reste
du FNE et une         prioritaire et doit etre
petite partie du      poursuivie.
mat&riel informati-   Un Consultant a ete
que achetee           recrute A cet effet.
. Appui a la Formation  . Formation de pres   . Activit6 bien engagee   272.656.70/^
Formelle                de 400 personnes
& acquisition du       erI e f ra       du
(C.O.I.C.               mat6riel logistique
* Equipement           . Mat6riel et vehi-   . Realise en partie        i67.260.891:             D W
cules                                                     i
I    |                       i                     ;                           ;           ,            o   x~~~~~~I 
550iA aprjs Idv:a-luartio--
1                     i__ _ __ _ __  .__ _ __ _ _ _   I __ __ _ __ ___ I___    __  _  __  __  _
* $ = 550FVCFA aprqes devaluation



MM  BSA - MM   : EVALUATION IEALE
MODULE DFPLOI - FNE
BAILLEU;                ACTIONS                 A. NIET-S               CAMMEHTAIRES               T
(St')URCE/FINANCEMENT,)    P FROGRAMflEES    I       REALISEj             
PRET  B.A.D.           . Etablim r un  Program-u   Realisation de 08  ;. 815 emplois crees dont    48.093.660
' e  ''Assistance aux    micro-projets        615 de maniere directe
Micro-Entreprises
i  qui generent des                               L'objectif de d6part est
1  emplois.                                       A moitie atteint car il
s'agissait d'un Program-
me Pilote
i  i  Programme d'Assistadce  1.222         . Cette activit6 se          260.437.850
pour la Formuition stir
eTour las  Foraton  trpersonnes formees    deroule convenablement.
I1 faut l'intensifier
surtout pour les Jeunes
Diplbm6s A travers le
"PED"
Assistance Technique  . Conseiller en        . Activite en cours pour
Micro-entreprises    une duree de 10 Mois a
compter de Janvier 1995
iI  Consultant Informa-ij
ique                                  ~ 
{  i. Equipements    t. Un vehicule et une   ILes multiples suspensions                      m
partie du mat. Inf.;  Ont freine cette activite  16.438.900i  
Formation du Per-   I Formation en                                                             H
sonnel FNE           I  Informatique         . Action engagee, a pour- 110.400.000i 1
suivre



PRE DSA - CM     :  EAUJATIONWM  LE
MODULE :E PI - FE
BAILLEUR                ACTIONS                 AGTIYIITES     iGUMMTiTRES                  ! EU,
(SOURCE/FINANCEMENT)   i   PROGRAMiEEiS      i       DREiiL'E       ii
DONT "FAT"         . Assistance pour la             941           i   Poursuivre et intensi-
Formation Formelle   personnes formees           fier ce Programme        148.150.00Q
Conseiller Technique;. Activites du          . L'assistance au FNE       ;126.785.307
du Directeur G6n6ral   Conseiller du D         sera ponctuelle bas6e
achev6es               sur des problemes
precis a eclairer
fETAT  CAMEROUNAS   i  Fonctionnement et       Beaucoup d'arri6r6s:. II faut que la Contribu- 820.000.000.
Equipement              de fonctionnement      tion Patronale de 1%
& manque d'equipe- I revienne directement au
ment bien que l'Eta   FNEi;
ait apporte plus dei
50% de fonds prevus:
au depart
I~~~~~~~~                                                                               ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I  iiIie
I  i              '                      I                            i           i        {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D (D
In
o X
.  ;      i       F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It,






5 7
Appendix B3
Page 1 of 3
Summary of Government's Evaluation
Introduction
1.    The Government of Cameroon aimed, through the SDA project, to integrate social
concerns into both their structural adjustment program (SAP) and development strategy
by: i) protecting the poor and most vulnerable groups during adjustment; and ii)
stimulating the participation of these groups in the process of economic recovery. The
SDA project was innovative and experimental in Cameroon in that it involved more
sectors and donors than ever before in a single project. However, six of the original ten
supporting agencies subsequently withdrew financial support, contributing to a finance
gap of 50 percent.
Objectives and Realisations
2.   Insufficient information to identify and target the poorest groups constrained
project conception, preparation and implementation. Consequently, at the outset it was
impossible to prioritize interventions and important components were subsequently
discovered to have received inadequate attention.
3.    On the positive side, the Population Module has produced a "Declaration of
Population Policy" which has been promulgated by the Government and approved by the
World Bank. This aims to: i) establish an equilibrium between population growth and
national resource mobilization; ii) regulate fertility by increasing awareness about
responsible parenting, and promoting family planning and birth-spacing; iii) accelerate a
reduction in the mortality rate; and iv) intensify the fight against sterility and sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs). On the negative side, population policies have not been
well disseminated and organizational and personnel changes in the former Ministry of
Planning have hampered the training program.
4.    The Health Module produced the "Declaration of Health Policy" which has
quantitative objectives and operational strategies and includes mechanisms to coordinate,
control, and evaluate medium-term programs in the context of the Government's
changing investment priorities. Some progress has been made: i) the experimentation
phase of the cost recovery system has been started; ii) medicines, minor medical
equipment and five vehicles have been acquired; and iii) repair of health clinics has been
initiated..
5.    The Education Module is the only component which received no funding before
October 1994 because of: i) administrative weaknesses within the Education Ministry; ii)
rigidity of World Bank procedures; and iii) poor preparation of bidding documents.
6.    The Employment Module. Although a National Employment Fund (FNE) has
been created, its objectives have not been achieved due to: i) inadequate financial



58
Appendix B3
Page 2 of 3
resources given the suspension of funds following non-payment of debt servicing and the
scarcity of counterpart funds; ii) a delay in project implementation given multiple
conditionality and the instability of the General Direction; and iii) donors' lengthy
procedures for the acquisition of goods and services. In addition, for financial and
institutional reasons, the goal of relaunching the labor force survey was not achieved.
7.    The Women and Development Module. Planned financial support from the AfDB
was not made available following procedural problems and disbursement delays for this
component. Definition of a sectoral policy for women was facilitated by studies and
seminars despite some administrative difficulties. However, a lack of financial resources
has blocked the final elaboration of the Strategic Action Plan.
8.    The "planning capacity" sub-component of the Planning Capacity and
Information Base Module was not implemented following the UNDP's financial
withdrawal. Preparatory activities for the ECAM and the elaboration of a synthetic price
index were completed and some equipment acquired, however, execution of the entire
operation was delayed by the purchase of vehicles and working-capital.
9.    The Community Development Program (PRODEC) was conceived as a means of
reinforcing governmental support of local activities. Despite serious start-up delays,
PRODEC has already financed some community activities and 151 micro-projects.
Several new financial and procedural arrangements have been made with the support of
the AfDB in an attempt to address the numerous problems encountered since the
beginning of this component.
Evaluation
10.   The success and especially the failure of the SDA project are attributable to both
the Government of Cameroon and the donors involved.
11.   The Government of Cameroon made considerable efforts to recruit highly
qualified and competent personnel for the SDA project. New coordination and
supervision mechanisms were set up, and the Government has performed its coordination
role well. Despite delays, due in part to weaknesses in the administrative system,
trimester and semester reports were submitted to donors. Audit reports were delayed
because of lengthy World Bank procedures and the time required to create an accounting
system appropriate for the multidimensional character of the project and its numerous
sources of finance. The coordinating committee (CTC/DSA), which is the engine of the
project, should have been more involved during project negotiations.
12.   The Donors, Implementation of the SDA project was constrained by the
folowing:
(a)   the disengagement of certain donors, resulting in a finance gap of 50
percent. Currently, the financing situation of the SDA project is as follows: i) the
World Bank loan, financing the FNE, PRODEC, ECAM, and the survey on the



59
Appendix B3
Page 3 of 3
workforce has been terminated; ii) the Canadian grant, supporting the WID
component, has been terminated; iii) the Japanese grant will continue to finance
the Health and Population modules; and iv) the AfDB loan and the "FAD" grant
will continue to finance the FNE and PRODEC;
(b)   different loan disbursement schedules for different donors, causing jointly
funded modules frequently to lack adequate resources;
(c)   disbursement difficulties, which arose from the low ceilings on special
accounts as well as inflexible replenishment procedures, and which were
aggravated by the currency devaluation that increased local costs;
(d)   suspension of disbursements causing the project never to operate for more
than six months without interruption; and
(e)   the harshness and extent of conditionality which impeded implementation,
in addition to the "Non-Objection" system imposed by the World Bank and
regarded as inappropriate for a social project.
Recommendations
13.   Based on this experience, recommendations for future SDA-types of projects are
as follows: i) given Treasury difficulties, conditionality should not be imposed on
disbursement of counterpart funds; ii) donors should be formally linked by a protocol
agreement determining the terms of finance and the dates of availability of funds; iii)
additional expenses, notably salaries, rent, phone, utility and other general operating costs
should be eligible for project financing; iv) CTC/DSA should be reinforced with
additional funds and its personnel trained; v) ceilings on special accounts should be
raised; vi) inactive modules of the Project should be closed; vii) local participation (on
the part of the beneficiary population) should be limited to in-kind rather than monetary
contributions; viii) PRODEC's activities should be extended to other provinces; ix) the
World Bank's procedures should be simplified; and x) disbursement procedures based on
provisional budgets should be better outlined.






Agence canadienne de    Canadian International
d6veloppement international  Development Agency   60                 Appendix  C
200. promenade du Portagc  200 Promenade du Portage                  Page 1 o f 3
Hull (Quebec)           Hull. Ouebec
CANADA                  CANADA
KIA OG4                 K1A OC4
Voir. ,4Nr',ce    You 1
1995-05-08                                                    Pret no 3206-CM
Nor, #f*N,nc. Our Ab
232/16587
Monsieur David Berk
Chef de division
Populations et ressources humaines
Banque mondiale
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.
20433, U.S.A.
Objet: Republique du Cameroun - Projet Dimensions sociales de
I'ajustement/ Commentaires sur le raDDort de fin d'execution
Monsieur,
Suite a votre lettre du 14 avril demier concernant le projet en rubrique, je vous fais
parvenir ci-dessous nos commentaires en ce qui a trait au rapport sus-mentionne.
Ceux-ci s'inscrivent dans le meme ordre d'esprit que les constatations effectuees
dans le rapport. Cependant, ils ont davantage un objectif de suggestion ou de
recommandation pour de futurs projets.
Structure de gestion vs execution du projet
Une structure de gestion a modules independants r6alises par les differents
donateurs (projets bilateraux) par l'intermrddiaire d'agences d'ex6cution choisies
par chacun d'eux serait a envisager a l'avenir pour ce genre de projet. Cela aurait
plusieurs avantages, a savoir:
- de rdduire les delais d'execution en evitant les n6gociations entre de grandes
entitds bureaucratiques telles I'ACDI et la Banque mondiale;
- de satisfaire a la r6glementation des differents bailleurs de fonds puisque les
modules seraient geres selon leurs exigences;
- d'assurer une meilleure adequation en terrne de reponses aux besoins des
populations-cibles de chacun des modules et de couvrir, plus specifiquement, le
probleme d'insuffisance de capacites de gestion de projets internationaux de
certains ministeres de tutelle, besoin qui n'6tait pas couvert dans certains modules
du projet DSA;
Caiada



61                            Appendix  C
Page 2 of 3
- d'assurer un suivi/contr6le des activites (a partir de plans d'exdcution plus
detaill6s que le programme d6fini a l'origine) et des finances plus efficace (a partir
de regles et procedures financieres connues par les ex6cutants);
- cela perrnettrait peut-&re aussi de s'assurer d'un accord de principe plus formelle
de la part des donateurs.
Sonmme toute, cette structure modulaire (ou projets bilat6raux sectoriels) tout en
allegeant la structure d'execution par la diminution du nombre d'intervenants
donnerait une plus grande flexibilite/adaptabilite aux differents projets.
Dans ce cadre, la Banque mondiale pourrait jouer, s'il y a lieu, le r6le d'initiateur
de l'idee de projet etlou de coordonnateur afm d'effectuer la synthese de l'ensemble
des modules.
Leqons
- Au point 1.39 de la section "Principales le,ons" du rapport nous ajouterions aussi
le secteur "Fernmes et d6veloppement" au nombre des secteurs n6cessitant
l'utilisation des projets sectoriels pour la formulation de politiques et le
renforcement des capacit6s institutionnelles.
- La recommandation concernant l'approbation de non-objection semestrielle par
la Banque sur la base d'un plan d'actions telle que suggdree par le CTC-DSA dans
son rapport d'execution final du projet (en annexe au rapport de la Banque)
gagnerait a etre report6e au bilan Banque mondiale. Cette mesure pourrait etre
appliquee conditionnellement a la connaissance par les executants des exigences
de la Banque et de la disposition de ressources competentes en gestion.
Contraintes
Je souhaite attirer ici l'attention des ben6ficiaires et de la Banque sur le fait que
l'engagement de principe des donateurs a contribuer a un projet ne constitue pas
une certitude de leur engagement final. Chacun des donateurs doit se ref6rer i
son propre processus interne d'approbation de projet avant de prendre sa d6cision
finale. I1 est donc vraisemblablement impossible d'obtenir des engagements
irrevocables au stade de la pr6paration de projet.



62                                Appendix  C
Page 3 Of 3
Analyse de couits
Le rapport ne fait pas etat de conclusions liees a une analyse de couats
(d'efficience) de la multiplication des interm6diaires au niveau de la gestion
(interne A chaque module, A l'ensemble du projet). Une telle analyse permettrait
sans doute de corroborer l'inad6quation de la structure de gestion qu'avait adopt6e
le projet.
Ces quelques commentaires, ajoutes A l'analyse effectuee dans le rapport, brossent
un tableau assez complet des le,ons/recommandations A prendre en compte A
l'avenir.
Je vous prie de recevoir, Monsieur, l'expression de mes sentiments les meilleurs.
r-      /
Bruno Hebert
Directeur g6n6ral
Afrique centrale et de 1'est
CC: Nadine Poupart
AF3PH



...



63
Appendix D
Page 1 of 2
(Extract from Staff Appraisal Report)
D.    Project Costs,  Financing and Supervision
4.80        Costs.   The following table summarizes  the costs of the Project
by module  (US$ million equivalent):
X Total
% Foreign         Bos-
Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange         Costs
Population
Policy Design                    0.1      0.0       0.1             2.2%        0.2%
Action Program                   1.3      3.1       4.4            71.3%        6.1%
Sub-Total              1.4      3.1       4.6           89.1%         S.3X
Health
Policy Design                    0.3       0.0      0.3             0.0%        0.3%
Action Program                   4.4      11.8     18.2            72.7%       18.7%
Institutional Strengthening      1.2      0.8       1.9            39.8%        2.2%
Module Management                0.8      0.0       0.8             1.0%        0.9%
Sub-Total              8.7     12.6      19.2           86.4%        22.2X
Education and Training
Action Program                   7.7       1.9      9.8            19.8%       11.1%
Module Management                1.0      0.0       1.0             0.8%        1.1%
Sub-Total              8.7      1.9      10.6           17.9%        12.3%
Employment
Policy Design - Studies/Surveys 1.4       0.0       1.4             0.9%        1.6x
Action Program - FNE
Administration                 1.3      0.9       2.2            42.9%        2.SX
Programs
Employ. & Trg. Asst. Div.   1.5       0.5       2.0           24.8%         2.3%
Formal Vocational Trng.      3.0      3.0       S.;           50.OX         6.81
On-The-Job Trg./Appr-nt.    2.2       2.2       4.4           60.0%         5.1X
Self-Employment              6.0      6.0      10.0            60.0%       11.6%
Micro-Enterprise Support    3.2       3.1       6.3           49.1%         7.3X
Institutional Strengthening      0.3      0.2       0.6            35.9x        0.6%
Sub-Total             17.7     16.0      32.7           48.0%        37.8X
Women in Development
Policy Design                    0.6      0.3       0.9            34.61        1.1X
Action Program                   1.6       1.3      2.9            48.1X        3.3X
Institutional Strengthening      1.2      0.6       1.8            33.6%        2.1X
Module Monagement                0.1      0.0       0.1            12.7%        0.1X
Sub-Total              3.4      2.3       5.7           39.8x         6.8%
Comunity Development - PRODEC
Action Program                   2.6       2.6      5.0            SOOX        6.8X
Module Management                0.7      0.2       0.9            17.7%        1.0%
Sub-Total              3.2      2.7       6.9           46.2%         a.as
Planning Capacity and Information Base
Support Macroeconomic Planning  0.5       0.4       0.9            46.8%        1.1l
Information Base
Household Survoys              3.2      0.9       4.1            22.ex        4.7X
Prico Index                    1.9      0.1       2.0             5.6%        2.3%
Sub-Total              6.8      1.6       7.1           20.8%         8.2X
SDA Project Management                0.8       0.1      0.9             9.9%         1.0X
Total BASELINE COSTS            47.4     39.2      86.8            46.3X      100.0X
Physical Contingencies         1.8       1.2      2.8            42.8%        3.2%
Price Contingencies            3.1      1.9       6.0            37.4%        6.7%
Total PROJECT COSTS             62.0     42.3      94.3            44.8X      108.9X
less TAXES                     8.6      0.0      8.6             0.0%         9.9%
Total TO BE FINANCED            43.2     42.6      86.7            49.8%       99.0%



6 4
Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
(Extract from Staff Appraisal Report)
FINANCING OF THE SDA PROJECT
- - - - - -  -   -   -   - -  -   -   - -  -   -   -  - -   -  -   -     -  -   -  - -   - -   -  - -   - -  -
- - - - - - - -  - -   - -  -   - -  - - -   - -  -   - -  -   - -  -     - -   - -
3                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; o C
I   - - - - - -   - - - -   -  -2--           -   -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -   -  -   -   -  -        -  -       -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   C
-%      I      2~~~~~~~~?2~~~~~~2'~  I2I2'                                                          I          I
C9-           - -  -   -                             I                         I                 I            - - -  - -   - -
I               I            I                         I ~~~~-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I- - - - -I
I ~  ~           ~          ~          ~I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e       )0C                                                I2     
- - - - - - I   - - - - - - - - - - - I   - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - I - - - ---  I   -I   - 
A   -8  S2                                                        Nc
-           '-lCd 4  - ..I..C   00                                 N OICII    000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V )141
--    -  I            I            I                                                                            .3~~~~~~~~~~~~----    ---    ---
000og-                      deNW    s                         dd000210
L                            I~~~~~~~~~~~.  I,l.~
I I               I~~    ~ ~~ I  II          I     C       I                               I0        I
C                                                                        
                                                        Wc~~~~~~~~~~O
*        4                                                    0  C      C                       la   UC.C        
.0 IC,  C          C  C aC C,   I I                                 0I  
C -      .L4*        .-  .13           a.~~~~0.- m*0       C     -L3           d'c      >9         C
mUC    Ia                                            cmCm       c4' I           c  c
I  ,I E- I. I, Co     la    I         *     -LO  a CI>am  -C-C
Cam   C m          m              m.   aaam0C                     u0.        m                    CW   -
U)          mcc II. 05. C  I  SIC    a43.-43                 I  >0cl ICC 1
LLAm                          Ccm3..    2           I0 U~    --.3    iv- Cu           V)
x 00 4U-'104   9*               .1-..                            a     -3E   .93-4903                 a.. C 020I1.CI003ICu   c IL -Cu CCI   U0 I >mO
FL                                           ce -Cm omI                                      C       3   mu
-   02                   114~         ~~~~~~~~~~ 11              >                I>           I>>









M A LI                                                                         '5                                         4 
N IGER           ./ E7R                                                                              j ,                 !        i
BURKINA'' "                                          L_ SUDAN   ... .              i,.. 5.
FASO   3#              r           \'    C H A D   r t*                                                                              OM
)ENIN?    IEI                             *#        (              . .
N IJ           N; G E RI A
GHN   j''  F                                                                                                                                      N'DJAMENA
O         E        J   CENTRAL AFRICAN  o.rv4Ivhvv'o*1                                              (     oN                           iO*
t          rv/        <        ~~~~~REPUBLIC  /    17        5osel?7
KILOMETERS 0  20* 080 100 120 140 160                                       ,*.'
\,---,,AERO    k\s                                                A<                                                           (        C H 
1' UAToRlAL1 'I               j                          MILES 0    20   40    60    RO    100                                             C
"22      . r  # o GUINEA ; |  k. _        Z A I RE 
AT/ANTrC OCfA         "         N                                                   N  I          G  E R I A                       Y.F 1 111
.                                                                           r  /      \5] 0 T J  11  9  i
0'                                                                        Mokol  0Kvo    tiORI)  Mng
CAMEROON                                                                                   -'r MAr.iv
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROJECT                                                                      /  (' /  "                           ssvvs
Locotfov, of PRODEC's                 6  National capitols                                                                       h D0voh                           - i/'
v.    A   Regionol Offices           1               Province  capitols                                   to. . _
  Division capitols
-      Paved rods, notional                   0  SUb dcvlsion capitols
--- Unpoved roods naltonol                    0  District capitols
--Unpaved roods, provincial                 0  Other towns                             OLF     GAROU/
-- Unpaved roads, district                    )  Airports
Raidroods
Rive,s                                    Province  boundaries
4;,  Ports                             -   -International boundaries
Settlements with over 50,O0 population in 1986                                       p         _\
6i_______00-900.0(0 
NIGER             i                  NOR A !       
,-  SUD-    *n5~~~100             ttn0q00
Statlatica,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ jYaounde.nsir 
NI G E R I A                             14 011               5  4_ ADA ou
g   %        <   $                     )Gorotby  ~~~~C E N T R A L
pOUESTto4<+MEOv.^ jeoito \ eow g A~~~ F R I C A N
IA r,$,embot  X gjR k9 D          @    ut  o~~~~N.-t  C E                5, j         WC                    4         
Ek-dS
f  x  X  - (/',.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRYU
>             zEQUATORIAL GUINEA  j                          G A B    N                  h                                                              t   M~~~E  A 
< Sorre Naiont Drietorb o   /   CCINlNEtAIGUIi A   @                         /                         O    GEST 
_  tOiOi<, rtunJ. 1 .  *'  ^^ W
EE     J    ORIAL                                                                                                           .| 









. - |
j: .
- :F
t--!
i ! ' ' j
T.: i 7,
' ! > E
. . : 1
i ..
'1; i'l ii
:! i ! i: !
| ' ,., !--



