Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIA. USE ONLY
gA 320a- Ct3
Report No. 8451-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
APRIL 24, 1990
SDA Project Unit
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
Thi document has a rescted distibution and n¢y be used by recipients only In the perfonnace of
their officj duties Its contents may not otherwise be didosed witho  Wodd Bank authIdaion



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CPA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French franc is currently floating. The rate
of CFAF 305 to the US dollar is used for the economic projections
beginning 1989190.
Currency unit             -         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                  =         CFA? 305
CFA? 1.0 billion          8         US$ 3.3 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMFCA4L USE ONL'
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADS                African Development Bank
APICA              Association pour la Promotion des Initiatives Communauta iroes Africalass
CAPUE              Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
CCA                Cols. Autonome d'Amortissemsnt
CSDS               Commisslon Sup6rieure de Developpement de la Sant6
CENAFOP            Centre National do Formatlon Professionelle
CNP                Commission Nationale de Population
COIC               Opportunities Industrialization Center-Cameroon
CFA                Communaute Financiere d*Afrique
CFAF               CFA franc
CTC/DSA            Comit6 Technique de Coordination du Projet Dimensions Sociales de
I 'Aj ustement
CTPAS              Comit6 Technique charg6 de Is Pr6paration et du Suivi du Programme
d 'Ajustement Structur l
DAIR               Division d'Assistance a l'Insertion et a la R4ensertion
DHC                Developed Health Centers
ECAM               Enqu&te Camerounaise Aupres des 16nages
EHC                Elementary Health Centers
FNE                Fonds National de L*Lmploi
FOGAPE             Fonds de Garantie et d'Aide aux Petit.s Entreprises
CDP                Gross Domestic Product
cTZ                Gesel lschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
HSCM               Health Sector Coordination Mechanism
IPO                Institut Penafricain pour le D6veloppement
ISIP               Institut Superilur de Management Public
MESIRES            MinistIre de l'Education Sup6rleure, de l'Informatique, et do ta Rechercho
Scientifique
MCH                Maternal and Child Health (centers)
MINAGRI            Ministere do I'Agriculture
MINASCOF           MinistIre de Affares Sociales et de In Condition Fdeonine
MINAT              Uinistere de l'Administration Territoralel
MINDIC             MinistIre du D6veloppement Industriel et Comercial
MINEDUC            Ministere de l'Education Nationale
MINFI              Ministere des Finances
MINPAT             MlnistIre du Plan et de l'Am6nagement du Territoiro
MINSANTE           Minist6re de Ia Sant6
MTPS               MinistIre du Travail et de la Pr6voyance Social.
NOo                Non-Covernmental Organization
OIC                Opportunities Industrialization Centers
PAS                Programe d'Ajusetont Structurel (Structural Adjustment Program)
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
PRODEC             Programe de Developpement Communautaire
SDA                Social Dimensions of Adjustment
STD                Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activitles
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
UPP                Unit6 do Planification de la Population
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
WHO                World Health Organization
WID                Women In Development
This report is the product of several missions
consisting of staff from AFlAG, AFIPH, AF1SD,
AFRVP, AFTPS, and PHRWD as well as consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discobsed without Wodd Ihnk aathorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT StUMMARY .....        .           . . .  . .  ..... . .        i
I.           INTRODUCTION .              . .               . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.          THE  ECONOMY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .    .  . 1
A.  The Economy and Crisis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  Poverty in Cameroon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.  The Effects of the Crisis . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . .6
III.         SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
A.  The Structural Adjustment Program . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  7
B.  Government Social Policy  ... .  .  .  .  .  .     . . . . . . .  .   8
IV.          THE PROJECT  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .   .   . 15
A.  Objectives and Approach ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  15
B.  ProJect  Modules  (Policy  Design,  Action  Programs,  and
Institutional Strengthening)   . . . . . . . .  .  .   .  . 17
Population.. . . . . . .   ... . i  17
Health.                                           . . 19
Education.                                              . 24
Employment.                                          .  27
Women in Development.. .... 33
Community Development--PRODEC     . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Plarning Capacity and Information Base  . . . . . . . . . . . 37
C.  Project Administration  .............  . .....  39
D.  Project Costs, Financing and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . 42
V.           BENEFITS AND RISKS ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  49
VI.          AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . .....   .........   50
Annexes
1.  Extracts from the Declaration of Development Strategy
2.  Matrix of Actions
3.  Population and Health Programs
4.  Education Program
5.  Organization and Operation of the Employment Fund
6.  Reinsertion Assistance Service
7.  Programs of the National Employment Fund
8.  Women in Development Program
9.  Organization and Operation of PRODEC
10.  Cameroonian Household Survey Plan of Operation
11.  Organizational Structure for the SDA Project
12.  Cost Estimates
13.  Project Financing
14.  Project Procurement
15.  Estimated Government Cash Flow
16.  Documents in the Project File
MAP No. IBRD 21811J



i
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Cameroon
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Planning and Regional Development and
technical ministries
Loan Amount:                US$ 21.5 million equivalent
Terms:                      Standard IBRD terms, with a five-year grace period
and 20 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:            Grant,  US$  11.2  million  for  the  National
Employment Fund
Cofinancing:                African Development Bank       US$ 16.0 million
European Community             US$ 10.0 million
Federal Republic of Germany   US$  7.7 million
Canadian International
Development Association US$  7.3 million
France                         US$  3.9 million
US Agentcy for International
Development              US$  3.5 million
United Nations Fund for
Population Activities   US$  3.2 million
United Nations Development
Program                  US$  0.8 million
Japanese Yen Grant Facility   US$  1.0 million
US$ 53.4 million
Obiectives:                 The Project is an integral part of Cameroon's
Structural Adjustment Program.   As such it is
designed to support the Government in the
implementation of its poverty reduction strategy
by: (a) improving basic services in population
planning, health and education, rendering them
more  cost-effective  and  restoring  services
directed at the poor that have been crippled by
budget cuts; (b) promoting job creation and
facilitating job placement in the recessionary
environment; (c) improving the opportunities for
women to participate in development; (d) providing
support to community-based micro-activities which
generate   income   or  provide   b Bsic  social



ii
infrastructure for the poor; (e) strengthening the
institutional capability for formulating and
implementing social policies, including broadening
the itLformation base to help the authorities to
obtain a better understanding of the nature and
location of poverty and its evolution over time.
Descriptions                The Project will achieve these objectives through:
(a) a socio-economic policy design package in the
areas of population and health designed to
strengthen planning capacity, review priorities
and policies, formulate and implement sectoral
strategies, and incorporate the new policies into
program budgets; (b) an action program consisting
ofs (i) the establishment of a National Employment
Fund to channel resources into counseling
programs,    apprenticeship   programs,    other
vocational training, and technical and financial
support to self-employment; (ii) a component to
improve women's welfare and tbeir contribution to
economic growth; (iii) a community development
program   to   finance   small-scale   community
initiatives that will create employment or provide
basic services for vulnerable groups; and
(iv) support to short-term measures to improve
the quality and coverage of basic health care and
education; and (c) a program of institutional
strengthening, including the reinforcement of the
planning and coordination capacity of the Ministry
of Planning and the development of socioeconomic
statistics including a system for household
surveys and support to the system for preparing
price indices.
Project Benefits:           The  Project  should  bring  benefits  to  the
vulnerable groups in the population, both in the
short and long terms.  It should result in the
formulation of cost-effective and well-oriented
basic services in the areas of population, health
and  education.      It  should  facilitate  the
participation of women in development both by
improving programs directly targeted at women, and
by ensuring that economic and social programs
directed at the population at large fully take the
interests  of women into account.    It should
enhance the creation of employment opportunities,
notably for persons leaving the public sector, and
offer training and re-training to better equip job
seekers to find employment. It would stimulate
small self-help activities at the community level
run by the people who best understand the needs
of local groups. Finally, the Project should help



iii
the Government to build up an information base on
the location of poverty and its evolution.
Proiect Riskes              The first risk stems from the complex nature of
the Project which would involve many different
Cameroonian agencies, not all of which may move
speedily to execute Project components in
accordance with Project objectives. This risk is
complicated by the presence of several external
donors. The second risk is that there could be,
despite the Government's strong commitment,
resistance  to  the  population  and  women's
components of the Project which may conflict with
established cultural attitudes. The third risk
arises from the innovative nature of the self-
employment and micro enterprise support programs.
The first risk would be reduced by the Project's
modular approach (para. 4.4) which would simplify
Project execution and facilitate the channelling
of external finance, and by the creation of a
strong coordinating unit in the Presidency. The
second risk would be mitigated by the intensive
information programs being and to be carried out
by the Government. Finally, the third risk would
be minimized by the safeguards built into the
self-employment and micro-enterprise programs, and
both would be subject to review after a limited
testing period and continued only if the review
indicated that continuation was justified.



iv
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
Estimaed  ract Cost
(US$ million e4u7velent
% Forelgn     U Total
Local  Foreign    Total       EXChsnge  Base Co8ts
Populaton3.1                                           4.8           691% 
foatth                               6.7    12.8      19.2           e5.4%        22.2%
Educatlon and Training               8.7      1.9    10.6             17.9X       12.8%
Employment                          17.7    15.0    32.7             48.0%        37.8%
Women In Development                 3.4      2.3      5.7           39.8%         0.6%
Community Development - PRODEC       3.2      2.7      5.9           46.2%        8.8%
Pianning Capacity A Info. Base       5.8      1.5      7.1           20.8%         8.2%
SDA Project Management               08       0.1      0.9_  9.9%                  1,0%
Total BASELINE COSTS           47.4     39.2     88.8           45.3%       100.0%
Physical Contingencies        1.6      1.2      2.8           42.8%         3.2%
Price Contlingoncies          8.1      -1.9      5.0-         37.4%        S.7%
Total PROJECT COSTS            52.0    42.3    94.3             44.8X       108.9%
less TAXES                    8.8      0.0      8.6            0.0%        9.9%
Total TO BE FINANCED           43.2     42.5     85.7           49.e%        99.0%
Financ1ng Plan
(USS m_  on equivalent)
Share
IBRD                                                            21.5                21611
African Dovelopment Bank                                         18.0               19%
European Community                                               10.0               12%
Federal Republic of Germany                                       7.7                9X
Canadian International Development Agency                        7.3                 9%
France                                                            8.9                6%
US Agency for International Devolopment                           3.2                4X
United Nations Fund for Populations                               3.2                4%
Avt;vities
Japaneso Yen Grant Facility                                       1.0                1%
United Nations Development Program                                0.8               1%
Government of Cameroon                                           10.8               laX
85.7               i
Schedule of Estimated Bank Disbursements
sus millions equivalent)
Fiscal  aeer                        Annual         Cumulative
1991                          - 2.2               2.2
1992                           5.4                7.5
1993                           4.6               12.0
1994                           3.4               15.5
1995                           3.2               18.7
1998                           2.8               21. 



I.   INTRODUCTION
1.1       With the country currently undergoing a difficult economic
crisis, the Cameroonian Government is determined to reestablish economic
growth with equity and ensure the protection of vulnerable groups in the
short term. It has, therefore, decided to address the social dimensions of
adjustment as an integral part of its Structural Adjustment Program. This
determination, expressed in the Government's Declaration of Development
Strategy (see excerpt in Annex 1), has been translated into the proposed
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Project. It is thus closely
coordinated in both conception and design with the US$ 150 million IBRD
Structural Adjustment Loan1 and the US$ 9 million loan for an Economic
Management Project,2 approved on June 8, 1989 and July 11, 1989
respectively. The three operations constitute an integrated whole.
II. THE ECONOMY
A.   The Economy and Crisis
2.1       From the early seventies to the mid-eighties the Cameroonian
economy registered steady growth. However, since 1986 Cameroon has
suffered from simultaneous declines in the prices of all its major exports
(petroleum, coffee, cocoa, and cotton) aggravated by the depreciation of
the dollar vis-a-vis the CFA franc. As a result the Cameroonian economy is
currently experiencing a severe economic and financial crisis.
2.2       With a per capita GDP of US$ 955 and 10.9 million inhabitants in
1987, Cameroon's diversity in terms of human and natural resources gives it
considerable potential for economic growth. Indeed, throughout the 1970's
and early 80's, economic growth was high (about 8 percent per annum in real
terms, much higher than the estimated 3.2 percent annual rate of population
growth). In the period after independence, Cameroon relied heavily on
agriculture, which still remains the key economic sector, employing about
two-thirds of the population and generating 40 percent of export receipts.
However, petroleum became a major source of growth after 1978. When
petroleum production peaked in 1984/85 it accounted for more than
15 percent of GDP, 45 percent of Government revenues and almost two-thirds
of total merchandise exports.
2.3       Petroleum revenues boosted private and (particularly) public
spending, enabling gross fixed investment to grow at an average real rate
of 7 percent during the first half of the 1980's and to maintain a high
level of 20 percent of GDP. Despite large capital expenditures, the
Government was able to maintain a balanced budget until the mid-1980's
without extensive recourse to foreign borrowing. Foreign financing
amounted to only about 6 percent of total expenditures until 1984/85. Even
1See the 'Report of the President to the Executive Directors on the
Structural Adjustment Program in Cameroon" (Report No. P-5079-CM, dated May
16, 1989).
2See the "Report of the President to the Executive Directors on the
Economic Management Project (Report No. P-5083-CM, dated June 29, 1989).



2
in 1988/89, the external debt was only a projected US$ 3,119 million
equivalent, or 27 percent of GDP, while annual external debt service was
projected to be 23 percent of exports of goods and services (before
rescheduling).
2.4       Since 1985, the fall in the US dollar-denominated prices of
Cameroon's major export commodities (petroleum, coffee, cocoa, and cotton)
and the depreciation of the US dollar have exposed major structural
weaknesses in the economy and have plunged it into a deep recession.
Between 1985 and 1987 the dollar depreciated by 40 percent against the CFA
franc. Over the same period Cameroon's terms of trade deteriorated by
47 percent. Thus Cameroon's balance of payments went from a current
account surplus of 3.9 percent of GDP in 1984/85 to a deficit of
8.8 percent in 1986/87.
2.5       These factors brought a halt to economic growth in Cameroon.  The
economy stalled in 1986/87, with GDP falling by 3 percent. It is estimated
that GDP fell by 9 percent in 1987-88 and by a further 6-7 percent in
1988/89. Per capita GDP fell an estimated 19 percent from 1986/87 to
1988/89. Investment and imports are about 50 percent and 40 percent,
respectively, below their levels of three years ago. The fall in export
earnings, combined with capital flight (a function of uncompetitive
interest rates), has produced a sharp contraction in the liquidity of the
domestic banking system which further constrains economic activity.
Government revenues have also suffered. In 1986/87 for the first time
Government operations recorded a large deficit (122 of GDP). This deficit
has been financed by a build-up of domestic arrears, a drawdown of bank
deposits, and an increase in foreign borrowing. These factors have
contributed to the slowdown in economic activity and the illiquidity of the
banking system.
B.   Poverty in Cameroon
2.6       Available data on household economic activities and income flows
in Cameroon are very poor. While more accurate knowledge should em -ge
from the household surveys which would be implemented through the SDA
Project, existing data, tempered with observation, does allow a tentative
picture of regional variations in income and poverty, variations in urban
employment, and the regional distribution of malnutrition.
2.7       Regional Variations in Income and Poverty.  GNP per capita in
Cameroon increased from US$ 130 in 1965 to US$ 960 in 1989. This compares
favorably with other Sub-Saharan countries and places Cameroon in the
middle-income economies in a world-wide classification. However, this
national average hides significant regional and rural/urban variations.
These variations are indicated in estimates derived from the Household
Budget Survey conducted in 1984/85 (see Table 1), that show average net
income (including autoconsumption) per capita and rough estimates of the



3
incidence of relative poverty in each region.8 Clearly the northern part
of the country is the poorest, and the coastal zone the least poor, by both
measures. But there is also considerable variation within zones. The
figures hide variations within provinces. Thus the degree of poverty which
empirical observation finds in the South and the East does not appear in
these average figures, as a result of uneven distribution of income.
Table 1 also makes clear that the urban population, on average. is better
off than its rural counterpart. Nonetheless, some 23 percent o.. the
population of Yaounde and Douala is estimated to be below the national
poverty line.
Table 1
Reional Variation In Income and
Poverty by Agro-Ecologicul Ztne
Average Annual Net    Estimatod
Income and Auto-   Incidence
consumption per   of Povertyl/
capita (CFAf) (_gree
COTTON AND LIVESTOCK ZONE     28,0983           0
Extreme North              19,066
North                      28,889
Adeamoua                   83,462
COFFEE ZONE                   89,687           46
Northiect                  47,461
West                       88,212
COCOA AND TOBACCO ZONE        86,295           46
East                       80,830
Central                    85,783
South                      69,577
COASTAL ZONE                  98,509           SO
Southwest                 102,084
Littoral                   90,151
Yaound6 AND DOUALA              n.*.           23
Source: mission oetimatos
i/ Percentage of population with income below national poverty line (803 of
national averago net income, Including subetstence production).
2.8       Urban Employment and Poverty.  By all accounts, unemployment has
become a major problem in Cameroon. The available employment statistics,4
showing only 6.1 percent of the 3.1 million active population in 1987 to be
nonemployed, are highly suspect, underestimating unemployment and entirely
masking underemployment. They do, however, allow comparisons between
8Given the poor quality of the data from which these figures are derived,
they should be viewed as only roughly indicative.
4Prom the 1987 population census.



4
different groups of the urban population. Unemployment is concentrated in
youth.  :n urban areas youths (aged 15 to 24) are three times more 'lkely
to be unemployed than those aged 25 and above. Again in urban areas, while
unemployment amonig women in general is only marginally higher than among
men, among the young, 18 percent more women are unemployed than men. With
the continuing decline in the economy and continued population growth, this
situation is undoubtedly worsening.
2.9       The poor in cities such as Yaound# and Douala often live in
crowded squatter settlements, with limited access to social and physical
infrastructure. The population of these settlements suffers from a high
degree of unemployment and underemployment, which has been exacerbated by
the current economic crisis, and suffers from an apparently high rate of
social violence. While the available data is inadequate to provide a
complete picture of urban poverty, Table 2 does illustrate some of the
characteristics of the poorest 20 percent of the population in YaoundG and
Douala in comparison to the total population in these cities. Not
surprisingly, it shows that the urban poor have larger households, less
education, less access to water and electricity, and spend some 59 percent
of their income on the basic needs of food, housing, and fuel (as compared
to an urban average of 46Z.
Table 2
Household Characteristics
of the Poorest In Yaound6 & Douala (1986)
Poorest
20X    Averase
Household Size          7.98    6.98
Education
None                  20%     19%
Vocational            24X     14X
Housi ng
Rent                   76%     54%
Electricity            44X     68X
Water
Indoor Faucet         14%     81%
Well                  24%     17%
Expenditure Structure
Food                  40%     29%
Rent A Energy         19%     17X
Education              5%      3%
Health                 ON      6X
Other                 30%     46%
Source: Household Budget and Consumption Survey 1984
2.10      Nutrition.  Table 3 summarizes some of the findings of the
National Nutrition Survey conducted in 1978. The study found that
21.0 percent of children between 3 and 59 months old were chronically



5
malnourished5 and 4.7 percent acutely malnourished.8  According to one
measure of maternal malnutrition (triceps skinfold thickness), 13.6 percent
of mothers were malnourished. The data show that malnutrition is a greater
problem in rural than in urban areas. It is also less of a problem in
Yaounde and Do4ala than in other urban areas. Not shown in Table 3 are
significant regional differences. The prevalence of maternal malnutrition
and acute malnutrition in children is higher in the northern part of the
country than the national average.7 The pattern of chronic malnutrition in
children is somewhat different: its prevalence in the West, the East, and
the Northwest is higher than the national average (31?, 26.7?, and 24.2?
respectively), unlike the North (21.1Z) which falls very close to the
average.
Table 3
Measures of Malnutrition, 1978
Chi ldren   Chi ldren
Ch,ecnici     Acutei    MaternalS
Yaound6/Douala                         1.5t3  1     2.8
Urban                    19.4          2.2          8.1
Rural                    22.4          5.8         14,8
All Cameroon             21.0          4.7         18.8
lCM Idren between 8 and 59 months old with loss than 903 of the
standard height for their age.
'ch ildren between 3 and 69 months old with leSS than 8S% of the
gtndar weight for their height.
Mothers with a triceps skinfold thickness of IGSS than 7.5 m.
Source: Cameroon National Nutrition Survey, 1978.
2.11      The study found malnutrition to be related to illiteracy, over-
crowding, inadequate child care, inadequate diet, recent illness of the
child, and insufficient and poor utilization of health services.
Inadequate environmental sanitation, such as contamination of food and
water, also plays a significant causal role. Efforts to address
nutritional problems in Cameroon have been hampered by a lack of in-depth
understanding of nutritional problems, and by the diversity of and lack of
coordination between ministries and NGOs (non-governmental organizations)
involved in nutrition programs.
6Defined as less than 90? of the standard height for their age.
6Defined as less than 85? of the standard weight for their height in
children 3-59 mos.
7However, in contrast to the protein deficit found among northern
children, the protein consumption of northerr mothers is higher than that in
other regions.



6
C.   The Effects of the Crisis
2.12      The serious recession that Cameroon has experienced since 1986
has reduced the incomes of several vulnerable groups in the population and
threatens ot'-- . So far, the main incidence has been in parts of the
private sector. The cuts in Government spending on major investment
projects have curtailed employment in the heavy construction sector, and
other suppliers to whom the Government is in arrears have undoubtedly had
to reduce their work forces as well. Private Javestors, both foreign and
domestic, have curtailed their activities on account of the recession and
bank .redit has become scarce as most banks are quite illiquid.
Manvufacturing industry is depressed. One estimate puts at 28,000 the
number of workers discharged by the modern sector in the three years
1987-89. This is about 5 percent of the 572,000 estimated to be employed
in the non-farm modern sector. A further 13,000 persons are expected to
lose their jobs as a result of restructuring of public enterprises--almost
20 percent of their work force. No doubt these declines have been or will
be partially compensated for by new job creation and absorption into the
informal sector, but the net effect will be a shrinkage in employment in
the modern sector, perhaps by as much as 30,000. In the rural sector,
coffee growers were not paid for their crops in 1988, and cotton growers--
a large number of very small f nmers throughout the North--received only
half the payment due them for the 1988 crop, the other half being paid in
promissory notes. The marketing agencies handling both coffee and cotton
had been losing heavily since 1986, when world prices fell drastically and
the dollar lost value. By 1988 these agencies did not possess the funds
needed to meet obligations to farmers. Cocoa farmers, whose receipts are
directly linked to world prices, fared better, but still suffered losses of
income as the price of cocoa expressed in dollars fell.
2.13      Further effects of the crisis will be felt shortly, as the
Government's adjustment measures take hold. The Government has stopped new
hiring, and is reducing the staff of the public service through attrition.
This means that large numbers of secondary school or university graduates,
who in previous years could have expected to find employment in the public
sector, have to compete for the shrinking number of job opportunities in
the private sector. The situation may become even more serious if the
budgetary situation obliges the Government to discharge regular civil
service employees.
2.14      There are a few pockets of activity that do not seem to have been
hurt by the crisis. Private residential construction continues to be
active, or even to increase in some areas. Motor vehicles are not renewed
as frequently by either the public or the private sector, and there is a
shortage of auto mechanics. And there has always been a shortage of
trained electric and electronic repair workers in Cameroon. Thus, many
employment opportunities remain, for the well-trained. If the Government's
new efforts to promote tourism are successful, new employment opportunities
may open up in the catering and related service industries, although for
the moment they suffer from a recession brought on by the decline in
private business activity, and to build up the tourist industry will take
time.



7
2.15      On the whole, the unemployment situation has become very serious
in the past three years, and is likely to further deteriorate over the next
year, as the Government's adjustment measures take effect. Probably no
coe"ination of near-term measures to promote new employment generation and
vocational training can fully remedy the situation before there is a
general upturn in the economy. However, the Government is determined to
mitigate unemployment as much as possible, inter alia, through the
employment segment of the SDA Project (see paras. 4.39 to 4.51).
2.1f      In addition to the decline in employment, the economic crisis and
the resulting cuts in public expenditure have led to a deterioration in a
number of basic public services designed to help the poor, notably public
health services and primary education. Budget cuts have aimed particularly
at non-personnel expenditures, with the result that the public health
services are bereft of medicines and other supplies and public schools have
a severe shortage of teaching materials. From 1986/87 to 1988/89 the
he-lth and education budgets declined 21.2 percent and 10.6 percent
respectively.
III. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
A.   The Structural Adjustment Program
3.1       Faced v4th the economic crisis, the Government began to prepare
its Structural Adjustment Program in early 1988. At that time it
established a working level committee comprised of directors and senior
technicians from all major operational ministries to draw up the
Government's Declaration of Development Strategy (see Annex 1). In
December 1988, the President established an Interministerial Committee
responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Structural Adjustment
Program and for monitoring its implementation. The Structural Adjustment
Program has been developed in close collaboration with the International
Monetary Fund, which approved an 18 month stand-by arrangement for Cameroon
in September 1988, and the Bank. The ADB is providing co-financing for the
program, and France and the European Community are funding related
adjustment measures.
3.2       The broad objectives of the Government's Adjustment Program can
be summarized as follows:
a)   to reestablish a positive rate of per capita income growth;
b)   to progressively reduce the constraints which circumscribe
economic opportunities by fostering increased competition and
reducing the inefficiency of domestic markets;
c)   to reorient the role of the State from one of direct intervention
in the production and distribution of goods and services to one
of facilitating the operation of the private sector;



8
d)   to reorient public services towards programs which improve the
well-being and productivity of all Cameroonians, taking into
account the social dimension of adjustment.
The Government aims to attain these objectives through reforms in the areas
of public sector resource management; public enterprises and the financial
and banking sector; agriculture; and industrial and trade policy.
B.   Government Social Policy
3.3       The Government is conscious of the effect that the decline in
economic activity has had on the poorer population groups and of the impact
that the adjustment program will have on the future life chances of the
population. Consequently, it considers addressing the social dimensions as
an integral part of the Structural Adjvqtment Program and critical to its
success. For this reason, the Government has adopted interim action plans
in the health and education sectors to prevent declines in and improve the
quality of basic services. These interim plans seek to improve health
status and the quality of education in spite of the adjustment sacrifices
which the country has to make. The Government has been also hesitant to
proceed too quickly with the decontrol of prices, because of its concern
for low-income consumers of essential goods. However, the Government's
ability to protect the population's standard of living has been constrained
by a number of factors, which the SDA Project would seek to mitigate. The
Government's social policy and the constraints which it faces are described
below for the areas of population, health, education, employment creation,
women in development, community development, and the information base.
Population
3.4       Demographic Profile.  In 1990 Cameroon's population will reach 12
million inhabitants, unevenly distributed over a territorial area of
475,000 square kilometers. The highest population densities are to be
found in the western highland areas, in the extreme northern province and
in urban areas. Close to 40 percent of the population lives in urban
centers. The largest towns (100,000 and above), Douala, Yaounde, Garoua,
Maroua, Bamenda and Bafoussam, are growing at over 5 percent per annum.
3.5       The major characteristics of Cameroon's population are high and
rising fertility (crude birth rate: 48 per 1000, total fertility rate: 7),
shrinking but significant pockets of pathological sterility, gradually
declining mortality (crude death rate: 13 per 1000), and a life expectancy
estimated at 56 years. About 45 percent of all live births are of fifth or
higher birth order and less than half of all deliveries take place in a
health facility. Consequently, maternal mortality is still very high,
especially in rural areas where it averages 300 per 100,000 births. Infant
mortality has dropped to 96 per 1,000 live births but recent evidence of
declining immunization in some parts of the country, including Douala, and
deteriorating basic health care resulting from budget cuts could push the
rate back above the 100 mark.



9
3.6       The very youthful age structure (55Z of the population is under
20 years), increases in fertility, and further declines in mortality will
sustain current high rates of growth into the next century. Cameroon's
population growth (3.2Z per annum) will result in a doubling of its current
total by 2010.
3.7       Family Planning.  Family planning services are very limited
because of prevailing pro-natalist attitudes. Until the establishment of
the Cameroon National Association for Family Welfare (CAMNAFAW) in 1987,
family planning was not promoted as a program and the small minority of
couples who sought services relied on private and rather discreet services
offered by a few daring physicians. The absence of services and relevant
expertise in this area has turned a growing number of desperate individuals
and couples to clandestine abortion. Traditionally, intensive breast-
feeding contributes to birth spacing, however, young and working women
abandoning the practice do not always adopt modern contraception
(contraceptive practice among women of child-bearing ages is a low 31).
The lack of a national population policy constitutes an obstacle to both
Government and NGO initiatives in this field. In recent years, church-
sponsored groups have been actively promoting natural family planning
methods as concern for teenage pregnancy, illegally induced abortion,
abandoned children, and juvenile delinquency have begun to alarm public
opinion.
3.8       Population Policy.  Although Cameroon has made significant
progress in reducing mortality the Government has not so far considered
family planning an important operational strategy. Indeed, until recently,
official Government policy on population was overtly pro-natalist.
Population growth tended to be underestimated and there was a general
belief that the country was underpopulated and needed a larger labor force
and bigger market. This attitude has begun to change as the country faces
serious difficulties in meeting the development needs of a rapidly growing
population. A Demographic Unit (the Unit# de Planification de la
Population--UPP) was established in 1984 in the Planning Ministry (MINPAT)
to ensure greater integration of population variables in development
planning. In 1985, the Government established a National PopLlation
Commission (CNP) which called for the expansion of family planning services
and which initiated work on formulating a national population policy. The
need for a comprehensive population policy and program was articulated by
President Biya in a statement to the National Assembly in August 1986 when
he called for responsible parenthood and stressed that the country's
development could be compromised by an unplanned increase in the birth
rate. These initiatives have been supported by grants from the UNFPA, but
are still at an embryonic stage.
Health
3.9       Organization of the Health Sector.  The public sector health care
system comprises 888 facilities (173 hospitals, 146 developed health
centers (DHC), 397 elementary health centers (EHC), 64 dispensaries,
51 preventive health centers, and 57 maternal and child health centers
(MCH)). The private sector health services are provided in 444 facilities



10
(218 hospitals, 35 DHC, 97 EHC, 15 MCH, and 79 dispensaries). The public
sector system is run by about 12,000 trained personnel (511 physicians,
82 pharmacists, 25 dentists, 4,667 state-registered nurses and mid-wives,
5,652 nursing aides, and 829 health technicians). Private health providers
include 268 physicians, 136 pharmacists, 16 dentists, and an unspecified
number of auxiliary staff. Much of the private sector system is managed by
the churches, but there are also many individually-owned clinics in major
and secondary towns.
3.10      Health Service Financing.  No comprehensive data are available on
total public and private sector expenditure on health in Cameroon. The
Government's operating budget for the health sector in the 1988/1989 fiscal
year amounted to CFAF 24 billion (US$ 79 million equivalent), or 5 percent
of the national operating budget. This was a decline of CPAF 5.8 billion
(20 percent) from the peak year 1986/87, with the whole reduction taking
place in expenditures for medication and other non-personnel expenditures.
This is demonstrated in the following figures:
Governmcent Health Budoe1;
(CFAF bi 11 if no)
of whichs
Total  Investment  Operations   Personnel    D us        Other
1956//8?     62.S        23.0       29.3        20.6        4.2         a.s
1967/88      47.1        21.6       25.6        21.2        2.0         2.2
1985/89      41.8        17.8       24.0        20.2        1.9         1.9
The allocation for medications alone was cut by more than 50 percent,
resulting in severe shortages, especially in rural areas.  This situation
should now be alleviated, as a result of the decision under the Structural
Adjustment Program to partially restore the level of non-personnel
expenditures in the health sector. During the period 1981-85, Government
health sector investment amounting to CFAF 17.6 billion was allocated for
hospitals and other health facilities. In 1986/1987, only 14 percent of
the investment budget for the sector went to primary health care and over
80 percent was spent on hospital construction. The bias to hospitals was
even more pronounced in the 198711988 budget in which 92 percent of
investment funds went to large hospital establishments, mainly in Yaounde '.
and Douala.
3.11      Coot Recovery.  User fees have been used only on very limited
scale in the public health care system. Because all revenues from user
charges are remitted to the national Treasury, there has been little
incentive to improve the efficiency of the system. Furthermore, charges
for different services are not related to costs, and no proper accounting
and auditing system exists. In recent years, better organized cost
recovery initiatives have been developed with donor assistance (notably
from GTZ and USAID) in several provinces, with very positive results, which
have encouraged the Government to envisage generalizing the practice
throughout the health care system.
3.12      Health Sector Policy.  Past development plans have sought to
attain total coverage of the population in basic health care services by
the year 2000. The strategies outlined for achieving this general policy



11
objective included reducing regional disparities in services, satisfying
primary health care needs, providing basic medication to underprivileged
groups, improving preventive health care, and promoting and supporting
community participation in planning, controlling, and funding health
activities. To develop the human resources for implementing these
strategies, the Government set up a University Center for Health Sciences
(CUSS) which was to train the health team (physicians, midwives, nurses,
pharmacists and other key paramedical personnel) in one institution,
thereby building the community health spirit from the classroom. However,
the details of the Government's sector policy, its operational strategy and
quantitative objectives have never been clearly defined and articulated.
In the absence of comprehensive program targets, training in CUSS
increasingly shifted away from stated objectives and physician training
drifted back to classical medicine drastically reducing the community
health content in the curriculum. The shift in sector priorities has been
reflected in the increasing attention paid to urban high-cost hospital care
to the detriment of primary health care services.
Education
3.13      The Cameroonian Government has made considerable efforts to
provide universal education at the primary level and to increase access to
all other levels of education to large segments of the population. In
primary education, a vigorous expansion of physical facilities took place.
By 1986/87, the country counted with some 6,138 primary schools (33,150
classrooms) and about 32,000 teachers provided education to 1.8 million
primary education students. The gross enrollment ratios of the order of
108, and is among the highest in West and Central Africa. Over a ten year
period (1973-1983) the growth of the primary education system was 4.5
percent per annum. The evolution of secondary and higher education was
even more dramatic in relative terms: average annual growth over the same
ten year period was over 10 percent. At present, the number of secondary
education students is closed to 270,000, while the number of higher
education students is of the order of 23,000.
3.14      Consistent with these efforts, Government expenditure on
education rose rapidly. From 1976/77 to 1986/87, total expenditure on
education rose from CFAF 23.1 billion to CFAP 140.7 billion, and was equal
to about 18 percent of total Government expenditure. However, the efforts
made in the quantitative expansion of the system were not matched by
improvements in the quality of the system. In 1986/87 only 645 of 1,000
students completed primary education. Because of high repeater and dropout
rates, it takes an average of 11.0 years to produce a primary school
graduate. In spite of efforts to take the child's environment into
consideration, primary schools in Cameroon continue to emphasize
preparation for secondary school. Problems of access to primary education
particularly affect girls, who often are required to stay home to take care
of younger siblings.
3.15      Technical and vocational education suffer from low internal
efficiency and a lack of adaptability of programs to the economy's needs
Technical programs do not appear to have any relationship with the needs of



12
the labor market in Cameroon. In addition, the cost of technical and
vocational training is very high due to the long cycle needed to obtain a
certificate. Repeater and dropout rates are extremely high, and
only 18 percent of students in the lower technical schools obtain a
certificate, while 26 percent pass the exams to graduate from upper
technical school. Furthermore, technical education is often used as a
conduit to access to university education which has resulted in undue
emphasis on general and theoretical courses, further minimizing the
practical aspects of technical education.
3.16      The lack of appropriate training is even more pronounced in the
small scale segments of the modern sector and in the informal sector. The
Government's modest vocational training capacity consists mainly of the
adult training center (Centre National de Formation Professionnelle,
CENAFOP), which is being supported by the Bank's 1986 Education and
Vocational Training Loan, and a small number of accelerated vocational
training centers under the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MTPS),
and training centers operated by the Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs
(MINASCOF). A few NGOs are also involved in training activities, notably
the Institut Panafricain pour le Developpement (IPD) and the Association
pour la Promotion des Initiatives Communautaires Africaines (APICA), for
training in management skills, and the Cameroonian affiliate clf
opportunities Industrialization Centers (OIC) for training in simple job
skills and business acumen. The scope and complexity of the vocational
training needed is well beyond the existing capabilities. It is therefore
necessary not only to improve the performance of Government training
centers, but to also harness the vocational training potential of NGOs
active in this field.
3.17      The lack of direct relationship between higher education and the
economy's needs and the rapid increase in enrollments principally at the
University of Yaounde have given rise to graduates with limited
possibilities for employment in the private sector. Indeed, enrollment
rates in humanities, law and economics constitute a majority, with only
17 percent of students graduating in sciences, engineering or business
administration. A combination of high repeater and dropout rates results
in the average time needed to graduate being two to four times greater than
the structured period. This indicates a need to review criteria for
granting scholarships for higher education, to apply a rigorous selection
process and to improve the quality of teaching in various faculties.
3.18      Private sector education plays an important role in the country's
education system.   At the end of the 1987/88 school cycle, there were
268 pre-school establishments providing education to 27,417 students, 1,669
primary schools providing education to 578,512 students and 219 general and
technical secondary schools providing education to 526,805 students.
Nevertheless, the growth of private sector education has been restricted in
the past by severe factors including inadequate school fees which have
remained insufficient in the light of higher operating costs. In 1986
school fees were decontrolled, and this is expected to result in an
increase in the share of the private sector in the financing of the
country's education system.



13
3.19      Current expenditure, including transfers to universities and
subsidies to maternal, primary and secondary private schools which stood at
CFAF 110.1 billion in 1986/87, was reduced to CFAF 105.7 billion in
1987188, and in 1988/89, it stood at CFAF 96.1 billion. Teacher salaries
and other wage-related benefits represent over 60 percent of total current
expenditure in the sector, and the distribution of the teacher force is
skewed in favor of urban areas. Transfers to the university and other
higher learning institutions, and subsidies for private schools, are of the
order of 30 percent of total education expenditures, while less than 10
percent of current expenditure is allocated to operational needs, such as
school supervision, textbooks and teaching materials, and maintenance of
school facilities.
3.20      Under the Structural Adjustment Program, the Government has
increased non-wage current operational expenditure to its 1986 level of
about US$ 5.5 billion, with 50 percent of that increase allocated to
primary education. Nevertheless, the present structure of current
expenditure in the education sector continues to be biased in favor of
highly subsidized secondary and higher education, resulting in the
financing by parents of an increasing share of the burden of primary
education. This situation has prompted the Government to review and revise
its policies in the education sector.
Employment Creation
3.21      The Government has been ill-equipped to deal with the increase in
unemployment and the decline in new job opportunities for school and
university leavers.  Under current labor legislation all hiring in the
modern sector should take place through MTPS, firing is severely
restricted, and wage rates are determined by levels of education. However,
MTPS has not had the resources that would be needed to carry out the tasks
it was supposed to perform, and as a result, this legislation is not
enforced. Nevertheless, its very existence on the books imposes
distortions on the labor market. Under the Structural Adjustment Program,
the labor legislation is scheduled to be overhauled and liberalized (indeed
a draft revised labor code has been prepared), so that in the future, the
employment market should, officially as well as in practice, be open to the
free play of market forces.
3.22      Various efforts have been made to help the creation and expansion
of micro and small enterprises, which in principle could result in creating
many job opportunities. Technical and management assistance to small
business was supposed to be the function of the Centre d'Assistance aux
Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (CAPME) and small business loans were to be
guaranteed by the Fonds de Garantie et de l'Aide aux Petites Entreprises
(FOGAPE), both under the aegis of the Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MINDIC). Unfortunately, these institutions have not so far met with much
success. The former was operated by civil servants who did not have
practical experience in business management, and its contribution has been
very limited. It is one of the public enterprises selected to be closed



14
under the Structural Adjustment Program. FOGAPE is moribund, after using
up its initial guarantee ability which has not been repaid.
Women in Development
3.23      Because women face a number of multisectoral constraints that
hamper their participation in the economy, the country does not fully
benefit from this important source of growth and development. Because of
the multiplicity and drudgery of their tasks, women face an enormous
constraint on their time. Their educational level is low. They have
limited access to training and information, to specific health services
like pre-natal care and family planning, to modern inputs and technologies,
to land, and to financial intermediation. They are the victims of
discriminatory customary practices. Furthermore, women's contribution to
the economy is undervalued and the constraints they face are underestimated
because women are invisible in national and regional statistics.
3.24      In order to achieve equity and economic growth, the Government
has decided to emphasize the full integration of women in the development
process. It has tried to promote increased attention to the welfare and
productivity of women, but existing institutional and technical weaknesses
limit the ability of the Government to significantly broaden their
activities. As a result, and in the absence of a coherent operational
strategy, the scope and impact of Government interventions have remained
rather modest, limited to the promotion of social welfare rather than the
enhancement of self-reliance for women.
3.25      MIIASCOF, empowered to coordinate policy and all activities
concerning women's development concerns, has not yet developed the capacity
to undertake these tasks, and hence to mediate or coordinate effectively
the interests of women in the programs of various sector ministries.
Several factors contribute to this weakness. The Ministry has been
inhibited by the lack of a clear definition of its mandate and of
appropriate institutional linkages. There is insufficient technical
capacity within MINASCOF to generate research proposals and innovative
programs to expand women's economic opportunities and integrate such
programs into national development planning and implementation. Moreover
MiNASCOF's intervention program, while providing some useful services, has
focused on traditional tasks and skill-development schemes, which are not
conducive to gainful employment, thereby doing relatively little to promote
the self-reliance of women. Budget resources have been directed to the
construction of new physical infrastructure (social and women's centers)
rather than on making existing outreach services work better. Finally,
there has been duplication and dispersion of the activities of MINASCOF and
the technical ministries.
Comumaity Development
3.26      Many Governmental agencies are currently involved in community
development activities in Cameroon. Unfortunately their effectiveness is
limited by overlapping and uncoordinated responsibilities, lack of
resources, and concentration in major urban areas. Ironically, despite



1S
this concentration, urban slums receive relatively little attention. Over
the years the Government has also established a large number of parastatal
agencies which engage in community development activities (e.g., FONADER,
SEMRY, SODECOTON). However, the parastatal sector is now in severe
financial difficulty and most of these agencies will be either closed down
or restructured. The Government has also been involved in promoting
cooperatives, which are formally organized through the government service
Cooperation Mutualite. Unfortunately, despite years of outreach work, many
cooperatives have not adopted appropriate management practices and
consequently their sustainability is questionable.
3.27      A large community of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) is
engaged in a variety of development activities in Cameroon. These include,
inter alia, the promotion of local development initiatives and micro-
enterprises, training in management, marketable skills, and community
development, and the provision of social services and infrastructure. Most
NGOs have a specifically rural focus. While NGOs have the advantage of
working close to their beneficiaries and have had some notable successes at
the local level, the NGO community is poorly integrated into the national
development effort. While the volunteer agencids (Voloi.-aires du Progras,
Peace Corps, etc.) meet among themselves occasionally and have begun to
invite other NGOs, coordination between NGOs remains largely ad hoc and
there appears to be little communication between lay and religious NGOs.
The same can be said for coordination between NGOs and the Government.
There is no single channel by which NGOs are legally recognized .in
Cameroon, nor is there any formal organization of NGOs. The Government has
relatively little knowledge about NGO activities, but is committed to
fostering collaboration with them. It is currently undertaking a review
through which it hopes to gain a better understanding of NGCs and to
establish better means of coordinating Government and 1GO activities
(something which NGOs tend to view with distrust). At present the NGO
community is undergoing a period of financial crisis. Over the past year a
number of NGOs have been forced to drastically curtail their operations in
Cameroon.
Planning Capacity and Information Base
3.28      Cameroon does not yet possess the statistical data nor the
planning tools that are needed to support policies that would enable the
Government to develop an effective anti-poverty program and to forecast the
effects of alternative economic and financial policies on income
distribution and welfare. The most recent household income and expenditure
survey was in 1984, but its findings have yet to be fully analyzed and
published, and the same is true of the results of the population census of
1987. As a result the Government is deprived of important analytical tools
needed to develop a fully effective anti-poverty program.



16
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Approach
4.1       The proposed Project results from the Government's recognition
that economic growth, in itself, is insufficient to reduce poverty and to
improve the standard of living of the poor, and from its deliberate
decision to incorporate into its Structural Adjustment Program a process
that will result in actions to address human resource and poverty issues
that are important for sustainable economic and social development in the
future.
4.2       Project Objectives.  The Government's Declaration of Development
Strategy and Economic Recovery identifies as its objectives in the areas of
human resources and the social dimension of adjustment (Annex 1):
a)   in the medium to long-run, to promote the participation of the
poorest groups in the process of development;
b)   in the short to medium-run, to protect underprivileged and
vulnerable segments of the population, especially those groups
directly affected by the economic crisis and the adjustment
program; and
c)   to promote the institutionalization of these concerns within the
-iutine duties of existing agencies.
From these objectives emerge the three lines of action of the project:
a)   support to a fundamental policy design process in the social
sectors;
b)   action programs to address priority needs while overall policy
reforms are not in place; and
c)   institutional strengthening to support emerging policy reforms
and action programs.
These actions are detailed in a matrix (Annex 2) upon which final agreement
between the Government and the Bank was reached during negotiations. The
policy design and institution-building components constitute a process that
would occupy roughly the first two years of the project period. Thus,
except for the action programs, much of the project would begin to reap
concrete benefits only toward the end of the project period. Because the
Project's objectives are to be achieved as an integral part of Cameroon's
Structural Adjustment Program (PAS), the Bank has reserved the right to
suspend disbursements under the Project if it found that Cameroon's general
performance under the PAS was unsatisfactory. In practice, the Bank might
consider exercising this only in respect to components directly related to
the PAS, namely the education, formal training and self-employment
components.



17
4.3       To prepare the Project, during the first half of 1989, five
working groups8 were set up under the supervision of the Technical
Committee for the Preparation and Follow-up of the Structural Adjustment
Program (CTPAS), which, in turn, reports to the Interministerial Council on
the Supervision of the Structural Adjustment Program, chaired by the
Secretary General of the Presidency. These working groups developed seven
project modules, described below. in the areas of population, health,
education, employment, women in development, community development, and
planning capacity and information base.
4.4       The Project would take a modular approach, meaning that each
component, or module, although under the overall coordination of a Project
coordinating unit (the CTC/DSA), would be managed by a line ministry or
other agency largely independent of the others (see para. 4.76). Thus the
success of any one module would not be dependent on the activities of other
modules. Each module, composed of policy design, action programs, and
institutional strengthening, would be coordinated by senior officials in
each of the ministries concerned, and carried out by line managers, most of
them already on the job. Each would have responsibility for the
implementation of the module concerned or part thereof, under a work plan
agreed with and monitored by the CTC/DSA. The Project would be executed
over the four-year period beginning September 1, 1990. Preparation has
been financed by a US$ 750,000 advance from the Project Prep-ration
Facility.
B.   Project Modules (Policy Design, Action Programs, and
Institutional Strengthening)
Population
4.5       In its Statement of Development Strategy and Economic Recovery
accompanying the Structural Adjustment Program, the Government recorded its
decision to define a new national population policy that would enable
Cameroon to reduce mortality and slow down the current rapid rate of
population growth, and to mobilize the necessary resources for its
implementation (Annex 1). The population module of the SDA Project would
support the process by which the Government is developing and refining its
population policies and operational strategies under a grant already made
by UNFPA. The SDA Project would also contain an action program to
strengthen and expand family planning services provided through Government
and NGO programs. The successful implementation of this module would lay
the foundation for a future sector reform operation in population that
could benefit from IBRD and other donor funding.
4.6       Policy Design.   The National Population Commission (CNP) and the
Planning Ministry's population planning unit (UP?) are actively preparing
studies and other mater'als for a series of national and provincial
These Working Groups were established for the following issue areas:
population and health, education and vocational training, employment, women
in development, and institutional factors.



18
workshops to build nation-wide consensus on policy options. The Project
would support these activities and would finance the drafting and
publication of the policy document as well as the preparation of a medium-
term action plan for the implementation of the population policy. The
major objectives of this policy would be: (i) to establish equilibrium
between population growth and the development of the country's resources;
(ii) to regulate fertility by educating the population on responsib..e
parenthood and promoting family planning and birth spacing; (iii) to
accelerate reductions in mortality and morbidity rates; and (iv) to
intensify the fight against sterility and sexually transmitted diseases,
including AIDS. A draft population policy statement would be discussed
with the Bank prior t- its adoption not later than June 30, 1991. Special
training would be pro ided under the Project to Government staff in order
to build national car bilities to successfully implement the new policy.
4.7       Action Prc  am.  The Project would support the strengthening of
provincial maternal and child health and family planning services and the
extension to other provinces of high risk pregnancy management currently
being implemented in five provincial centers. Support under the Project
would include equipment and supplies for ante- and post-natal care,
deliveries, family planning, nutrition education and surveillance, and
health education. Family planning activities would be strengthened in 65
maternal and child health care centers and 49 maternities in the ten
provinces with the objectives of reducing maternal mortality by 50 percent
in ten years and achieving a contraceptive prevalence rate of 25 percent by
the end of that period. A decentralized training and supervision system
would be developed and put in place to improve staff skills and increase
their productivity. The Project would also finance information, education,
and communication programs to sensitize the population on the availability,
uses, and benefits of family planning. An annual evaluation system and an
improved family planning statistical reporting system would be supported
through the Project. This program would be managed by MINSANTE's Maternal
and Child Health and Family Planning services.
4.8       To accelerate the attainment of the operational targets it has
set for the family planning program (para. 4.6) the Government proposes to
review annually the family planning activities of NGOs (e.g., the Cameroon
National Association for Family Welfare--CAMNAFAW), with a view to
supporting such activities through the Project. The maternal and child
health and family planning service of MINSANTE would be responsible for
this periodic review which it would carry out in collaboration with
provincial maternal and child health and family planning services and the
NGOs concerned. This support to NGOs for family planning would cover
direct service delivery, supplies, information and education, and training
workshops and seminars for promoting safe motherhood and regulating
fertility. USS 500,000 of the assistance to NGOs would consist of direct
grants by USAID to CARE and Save the Children.
4.9       Management and Implementation.  Overall responsibility for the
development of the national population policy lies with the National
Population Commission and its support unit, the UPP, in the Ministry of
Plan and Regional Development. A newly-created Department of Family and



19
Mental Health in HINSANTE and the provincial maternal and child health and
family planning services would implement the Family Planning Program and
manage support to NGO activities in this area. The health sector
coordination Mechanism (HSCM) to be established by MINSANTE to coordinate
the health module (para. 4.22) would also coordinate the activities of the
action program of the population module. A satisfactory implementation
plan for the action program of the population module was agreed upon during
negotiations.
4.10      The cost of the population module (including contingencies and
excluding taxes) would amount to about US$ 4.7 million, distributed as
follows:
USS milIIon
Policy Oov.lopment          0.2
Action Program              4.6
of which:
Fam! ly Planning                    8.6
NGO support                         1.0
Health
4.11      The Government's Statement of Development Strategy and Economic
Recovery (Annex 1) sets forth as priorities for the health sector the
promotion of preventive and primary health care (especially in rural
areas), improvement in training of health personnel, and rationalizing the
referral system. The health component of the SDA Project consists of a
process to enable the Government:
a)   to develop and refine those health policies and formulate
operational strategies for their implementation;
b)   in the short term, to re-equip and revitalize basic health care
facilities and strengthen curative and preventive services in the
priority areas of immunization, primary health care, tropical
communicable diseases, and sexually transmitted diseases
including AIDS; and
c)   to strengthen the institutional capability of MINSANTE in
strategic planning, programming and budgeting, financial and
personnel management, and coordination of sector operations.
The combination of policy design, an action program to improve basic
curative and preventive health services, and institutional development,
would lay the groundwork for a f_.ture sector reform program.
4.12      Policy Design.  Health sector policy development would focus on
articulating clear policy objectives and priorities, and on defining
operational strategies and quantitative targets for implementing the new
policy. In refining its health sector policy and operational strateRy, the
Government's major objectives would be:



20
a)   to give greater priority to primary health care thereby shifting
away from the current over-emphasis on high-cost, hospital-based
curative care;
b)   to develop and put in place an efficient dec.?ntralized system for
procuring and distributing essential drugs needed for combating
major causes of high morbidity;
C)   to reduce the prevalence of communicable diseases and infections
among children and women of child bearing age;
d)   to accord priority to maternal and child health, nutriti.., and
to family planning;
e)   to protect the general population against major endemic diseases;
f)   to develop community-based services and promote increased
community participation in the management of health care;
g)   to develop a decentralized and efficient referral system of
health care;
h)   to define and adhere to new criteria for sector investments and
staff deployment which take due account of prevailing
epidemiological situations, regional disparities in existing
services, population distribution, and implications for operating
costs; and
i)   to develop and put in place mechanisms, including cost recovery
and better financial management, to reduce the unit cost of
curative health care.
4.13      A working group within MINSANTE would be responsible for
formulating the new health policies. It would receive financial support
and technical assistance from the Project in organizing national and
provincial workshops on sector constraints and policy options, and in the
drafting of a policy statement. This statement would include quantitative
objectives and operational strategies for achieving these objectives, as
well as mechanisms for coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating medium term
programs for the implementation of the new sectoral policies. The new
policies, which should tailor Government investment and sector organization
and management to addressing priority epidemiological problems and
promoting NGO, private sector, and community participation in health care,
would be reviewed by a newly-created Higher Commission on Health
Development (CSDS). Thereafter, a draft policy statement would be
discussed with the Bank prior to its adoption not later than June 30, 1991.
4.14      To ensure the availability of essential generic drugs and to
reduce the unit costs of basic services, the Government would develop
essential drugs and cost recovery programs and set up and test appropriate
mechanisms for their implementation. A central committee for essential
drugs and MINSANTE's provincial delegations would be jointly responsible



21
for developing mechanisms for implementing the Government's new cost
recovery program. During negotiations agreement was reached with the
Government (i) that the essential drugs and cost recovery systems would be
introduced in all public health facilities not later than December 31,
1992; (ii) that proceeds from cost recovery would be managed by each
facility in particular to replenish essential drug supplies, and (iii) that
updated lists of essential drugs for different levels of services would be
communicated to the Bank no later than December 31 of each year.
4.15      Action Program.  MINSANTE's central and provincial services would
be responsible for carrying out the action program under the coordination
of the Secretary General of MINSANTE. The health sector action program
would include the purchase and distribution of US$ 7.4 million (CFAF 2.3
billion) of medical and pharmaceutical supplies, the stocks of which have
been run down because of budget constraints since 1986, and because there
was no generalized cost recovery system. These supplies would support
programs of primary health care, health education, prevention and treatment
of sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS, and immunization. In the
area of primary health care, the action program would aim to reverse the
decline in the quality of care and overcome the shortages of medicines and
other diagnostic and treatment supplies. Support would be extended to
primary health care services in 44 administrative divisions during a four-
year period. The program would involve the re-equipment of health centers
and first-level referral hospitals at the sub-divisional level by
replenishing the pipeline of medical supplies, and the provision of an
initial stock of essential drugs for a sample of health facilities in which
the Government's new cost-recovery program would be tested and evaluated.
To ensure adequate management and supervision of this program, the Project
would finance training activities for 45 Divisional medical officers, 100
sub-divisional public health officials, and 938 para-medical staff.
4.16      To ensure that the population, especially in rural areas, takes
advantage of the primary health care services that are being up-graded
through external assistance, the action program would support an integrated
information, education, and communication program to create greater
awareness of available services and their uses, to promote early recourse
to health care, and to promote preventive personal and community health
practices. The Project would finance equipment, vehicles, training
workshops, evaluation, consultant services (3 months), and supervision
needed to develop the program.
4.17      The action program would also support the Government's sexually
transmitted diseaselacquired immunodeficiency syndrome (STD/AIDS) program
complementing resources from other donors. Through this program the
Government aims to sensitize the general population on the prevention of
STD/AIDS, reduce AIDS transmission through blood transfusion, monitor the
evolution of the epidemic in high risk groups, improve technical knowledge
on local aspects of HIV infection, and put in place an efficient
coordinating mechanism and logistic support. To achieve these goals, the
Project would support educational campaigns in the ten provinces, carry out
training workshops for four laboratories per province, furnish supplies for
HIV rapid tests, undertake seroprevalence surveys among vulnerable groups,



22
experiment on institutional care for AIDS patients, and carry out applied
research on knowledge, attitude, and practice in the use of prophylactics
and other preventive measures against STD/AIDS. The STD/AIDS service of
MINSANTE would be strengthened and its management and coordination role
improved to ensure the sustainability of the program.
4.18      Finally, the action program would support efforts to improve
immunization coverage among children and women of child bearing age. The
Government has instituted a new strategy for immunization in all public
health facilities in the country, which has been hindered for lack of
adequate resources and an inefficient management and monitoring system.
The Project would support the development of this strategy through the
training of personnel and equipping of health facilities to successfully
and regularly carry out vaccinations, putting in place a coordinated and
decentralized immunization program that would maintain a reliable and
efficient ccld chain. The Project would finance refrigerators, vaccines,
vehicles, training workshops, and recurrent costs needed to attain the
Government's objective of 85 percent immunization coverage for children
under 20 months of age by 1994 and for asetting up 1,000 fully operational
and sustainable immunization centers nationwide by 1994. Additional
support for this program would come from ongoing UNICEF, WHO, GTZ, and
USAID assistance in the field.
4.19      At negotiations, agreement was reached on a detailed
implementation plan for the logistics, procurement, and distribution of
materials and equipment for each component of the action program of the
health module.
4.20      Institutional Strengthening.  To improve the strategic planning
and investment programing capabilities of MINSANTE, the Project would
support the development and strengthening of planning and programming
procedures within MINSANTE's Department of Studies, Planning, and
Statistics and the key priority services to be financed under the Project.
New programming methods would be instituted at the central and provincial
levels to improve and streamline the process of project and program design,
implementation and evaluation.  Better coordination, information, and
statistical systems would be developed to ensure effective integration of
epidemiological, human resources, and financial data bases in the sector.
Consulting services and training for these activities would be supplied by
the Institut Superieur de Management Public (ISMP), a public administration
advisory and training service supported with Canadian technical assistance.
Through the Project, MINSANTE would institute a program-budgeting system
to ensure that annual budgetary allocations are made on the basis of
clearly defined program targets and that these resources are channelled to
programs that deal with the major morbidity problems of the general
population. The development of the system would involve the establishment
of norms and targets for budgeting processes and the training of personnel
at the central and provincial levels. The new system would enable NINSANTE
to ensure that budgetary estimates incorporate non-salary operating cost
requirements and that existing imbalances in resource allocation are
corrected in favor of priority programs. The new system would institute a
system of beneficiaries' assessment of the improvements achieved in



23
priority population and health programs, which would be used as an input to
resource allocation. The system to be employed would be agreed with the
Bank by December 31, 1991, with a view to its introduction in the 1992-93
budget.
4.21      Management and Implementation.  MINSANTE would have overall
responsibility for the preparation and implementation of the health module
of the SDA project, and would integrate project implementation into its
existing services. Each central and provincial ministry unit responsible
for the development of specific programs would be strengthened and equipped
to coordinate and supervise implementation of these programs.
4.22      To ensure efficient and effective coordination, systematic
monitoring of policy developm.ent, and timely project implementation, the
Governmernt would set up, not later than September 30, 1990, a health sector
coordination mechanism (HSCM) under the supervision of the Mirister of
Health and mandated to periodically review all aspects of implementation of
the actiorn program and to resolve any bottlenecks in preject
implementation. This HSCM would be chaired by a senior official in
MINSANTE. and its members would include the heads of the central and
provincial units of the ministry, and a representative each from the
ministries concerned. The chairman cf the committee would be a member of
the overall SDA coordinating committee (CTClDSA--para. 4.76).
4.23      The HSCM would play a cardinal role in sector policy development,
monitoring progress and sanctioning reform proposals before these are
submitted to the political authorities for approval. It would ensure that
broad policy objectives focus on the dominant pathological and demographic
problems adversely affecting health, welfare, and economic development.
The HSCM would ensure that the annual budgeting process be used to
reallocate resources to programs that would benefit the general population,
especially those in rural areas.
4.24      As for implementation, the HSCM would follow-up all intermediate
steps needed for the adoption and implementation of reforms contained in
the population and health modules of the SDA project. It would also
coordinate external assistance, ensure the effective supervision of project
activities, and oversee the implementation of other important on-going
programs in the sector as well as future reform efforts. The HSCM would
convene annual programming and budgeting workshops during which past
progress would be reviewed and detailed implementation plans for the coming
year would be worked out. The HSCM would meet quarterly to monitor the
implementation of these plans and would maintain constant contact with the
CTC/DSA and the Bank on implementation progress. It would supervise
procurement of goods and services, training, and program coordination, and
would provide the Bank with reports of its quarterly reviews.
4.25      The HSCM would be assisted by a small secretariat made up of
permanent staff of MINSANTE located in the Directorate of Studies,
Planning, and Statistics, which would carry out the day-to-day
administrative and financial functions of managing the population and
health modules. It would maintain correspondence on procurement, process



24
withdrawal applications, and monitor disbursements. The secretariat would
carry out these tasks in conjunction with the technical departments which
would have primary responsibility for the implemention of the various
programs.
4.26      The cost of the health module (including contingencies and
excluding taxes) would amount to US$ 19.0 million, distributed as follows:
US8 ml IlI tons
Policy Design                  0 8
Action Program                16.0
of which:
Primary health care                11.0
Information                         0.6
STD/AIDS                           0°4
Imnuni zatlon                       3.1
Oparationa and Maintenance          1.1
Institut.ional Strengthenirg   1.8
Module managemnt (population
and health modules)          C 9
Education
4.27      The Government's Statement of Development Strategy and Economic
Recovery (Annex 1) emphasizes the Government's objectives in the education
sector: (i) maintaining the quantitative achievements in primary education,
(ii) improving the quality of education at all levels, and (iii) improving
the relevance of the education and training systems to the country's
economic and social development needs. To these ends the Government has
decided to develop and refine its education sector policy, undertake an
action program designed to replenish education supplies depleted as a
result of the budget cuts of recent years, and strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministries of National Education and Higher Education (as
well as the University of Yaounde) for planning, budgeting, and
coordinating sector operations. The process for developing new educational
policies and a new strategy are described in annex 4. The policy design
and institutional strengthening aspects of this sectoral program would be
financed under the ongoing Education and Vocational Training Project (Loan,
2683-CM of 1986), which is currently being restructured, while the action
program would be financed by the SDA Project. These three aspects form an
integral part of the Government's education sector strategy.
4.28      Institutional Strengthening.  The adoption of a new policy and
implementation strategy will also require the institutions charged with the
sector to improve their management capacity, and particularly their
planning and programming capabilities. In this context, there is a need to
support the development of the planning divisions of MINEDUC and MESIRES,
and to create a small planning unit at the University of Yaoundd as part of
the strengthening of planning and programming and to assist decision makers
with investment program decisions. As in other ministries, consultant
services would be provided by ISMP, reinforced as needed with
internationally-recruited consultants.



25
4.29       A second area to be addressed is the need to improve the budget
preparation and execution processes so as to better reflect the
Government's stated objectives and priorities, and determine the sector's
needs through involvement of central and regional staff, including school
managers. This is to be accomplished through the design and adoption of a
program budgeting system and of a budget monitoring process which responds
to the priorities defined in the new policy and implementation strategy
described if, Annex 4. The development of this system would involve the
establishment of norms for budgeting p.ocesses and the training of
personnel at the central, provincial and district levels. The new system
and monitoring mechanism would seek to correct existing imbalances in
resource allocation in favor of priority areas, and at the individual
institutional level, to incorporate needed operating cost requirements,
while at the same time introducing an element of accountability through an
expenditure monitoring mechanism. The system would be established by
December 31, 1991 with a view at its utilization in the preparation of the
1992/93 budget.
4.30      These institutional support activities, including consultant
services. selected office equipment and supplies, data processing
equipment, and the carrying out of training activities needed to introduce
the program budgeting system and monitoring mechanism, would also be
financed by the ongoing Education and Vocational Training Project (Loan
2683-CM).
4.31      Action Program.  While the medium to long-term reforms of the
education system are being prepared, priority programs must be protected
during the transitional period of economic adjustment and financial
stabilization. To this end, the SDA Project would finance an immediate
injection of badly needed materials and other pedagogical inputs for
primary and secondary schools by replenishing the supply pipeline, to halt
the erosion in quality and the depletion of educational materials which
education has suffered as a result of budget cuts since 1986 (see
para. 3.19) and thus to permit a resumption of the education system's
normal operations. From a very large backlog of pressing needs, the
Government has selected a budgetary envelope of CFAF 2.3 billion (USS 7.7
million equivalent) of which 47 percent would be allocated to primary
education, 32 percent to technical secondary education, and 21 percent to
general secondary education. The value of this once-and-for-all injection
of supplies and equipment is less than the cuts in the non-personnel
education budget made after 1986. This allocation is consistent with the
Government's stated priority of promoting universal basic education, thus
helping a very vulnerable group in the country (children of 6 to 14 years
of age), as well as strengthening the teaching of science and technical
subjects.
4.32      The materials and equipment proposed for SDA financing fall into
two categories. The first, amounting to US$ 5.4 million, consists of
educational materials and equipment whose stocks have been depleted because
of budgetary cut-backs after 1986. These include teaching guides,
textbooks, teaching aids, laboratory equipment, and materials for technical
schools' workshops. The second consists of a stock of school



26
desks/benches, costing US$ 2.3 million, to improve the poor educational
environment in primary schools where children must sit on the floor.
Priority in allocation of both categories would be accorded to: (i) primary
schools; (ii) schools in rural areas and in disadvantaged neighborhoods of
Yaounde and Douala; and (iii) schools with a predominantly female student
body. About 500 primary schools would receive desks, textbooks, and
teaching materials. Twenty technical secondary schools would receive
materials for their student workshops and equipment for their libraries.
About 65 general secondary schools would receive equipment for their
science laboratories end libraries. MINEDUC is currently designing a plan
for procurement and distribution of the materials and equipment to be
financed under the Project. Receipt of this plan would be a condition of
disbursements for the education module. Future financing of the expendable
materials would be assured as a result of the increases in annual non-
personnel budget expenditures for education agreed with Cameroon under the
PAS. A Bank finding that Government performance in the preparation of the
statement of policy, a medium-term action plan and long-term implementation
strategy would justify the suspension of disbursements under the action
program for education.
4.33      Management and Implementation.  To direct the activities to be
financed by the SDA Project, HINEDUC would establish a sector management
committee ("comite de suivi") not later that September 30, 1990. This
committee would be chaired by MINSANTE's representative to the CTC/DSA.
The advisor of the "Cellule d'Animation et de Suivi of the
interministerial task force ("Groupe de Pilotage") which is charged with
the preparation of the education policy statement under the Education and
Vocational Training Project would be a member of the committee. The
Directors of Projects, Primary Education, Secondary General Education.
Secondary Technical Education and the Chief of the Planning Division of
MINEDUC would be permanent members of the Committee, as would
representatives of the Planning and Finance Ministries. The sector
management committee would be responsible for the following: (a) review and
approval of plans submitted by the relevant directors; (b) review and
approval of the resulting budgets; (c) approval of the procurement
procedures to be utilized for each particular budget; (d) the criteria to
be utilized for the evaluation of bids; (e) evaluation and selection of
bids; (f) review of draft contracts; and (g) monitoring of the execution of
each plan.
4.34      Day to day management and coordination of the activities of the
education module would be the responsibility of the chairperson of the
sector management committee. He would provide all logistical support to
the committee, would be responsible for the preparation of draft budgets
and work programs, and would participate in the supervision of the
acquisition and distribution of equipments and materials and the
disbursement of funds for the execution of module activities in cooperation
with the Director of Projects. He would also advise the Minister of
National Education on all relevant matters concerning the SDA project and
would be a member of the CTCIDSA (para. 4.76), providing the administrative
link between the CTC/DSA and the Education Ministry.



27
4.35      As is the case in the Education and Vocational Training Project,
the Director of Projects would be responsible for the module's accounts.
He would prepare and submit to the Project Administrator all relevant
documentation, including the submission for approval by the Bank of bids
for the procurement of equipments and materials after approval by the
Committee.
4.36      Each Director (Primary Education, Secondary General, and
Secondary Technical), in cooperation -ith the Director of Projects, would
be charged with the selection of the schools that would benefit from
Project financing, including the preparation of plans for the acquisition
of equipments and materials as demonstrated by actual needs, and would be
responsible for delivery and supply to the schools through MINEDUC's normal
channels of distribution.
4.37      The interministerial task force on education (Groupe de Pilotage)
would continue to play its consultative role on the major recommendations
regarding overall human resource development and education sector policies
and strategies prepared by the subsector management committee.  The task
force would meet periodically at the request of the Minister of National
Education to examine specific issues submitted by the management
committees.
4.38      The cost of the education module of the SDA Project (including
contingencies and excluding taxes) would amount to US$ 8.8 million,
distributed as follows:
USe millons
Policy Designl/                0.0
Action Program
of whIch:
Teaching Materials             6.4
Desks/Benches                  2.8
Sub-Total                77
Institutional Strongtheningi/  0.0
Module Management                           1.2
Total
1/ To be fInanced under the Educatton and Vocstlonal Training
Project, currently being restructured.
Employment
4.39      Unemployment is a central preoccupation of the Came-oonian
authorities. Even during the years of strong economic growth (1977-85),
there were probably more people reaching working age than were absorbed by
the labor market. After 1986, with the onset of the economic crisis, the
situation worsened considerably, as income declined and the private modern
sector began to contract. The situation will soon become even more acute:
under the Structural Adjustment Program many public enterprises and banks
will be shut down, or cut back, and the public service is not being allowed
to expand, so that what was formerly the main source of jobs for new
graduates of secondary schools and the university no longer exists. As



28
noted above (para. 2.12), well over 30,000 persons have been or soon will
be added to the ranks of the unemployed, unless special measures are taker..
4.40      The employment component of the SDA Project seeks to address this
problem through a series of major measures to improve the functioning of
the labor market and to promote the creation of new employment. While it
would be rash to predict that these measures will completely solve the
employment situation as long as the economy remains in a deep recession,
they should at least mitigate the problem considerably. It is estimated
that the actions contemplated under the Project should achieve the
retraining and insertion or reinsertion into employment of most of the
30,000 new job seekers over the next four years. The socio-economic groups
targeted by the employment measures under the Project are: (i) employees of
the private, public, and para-public sectors who will be unemployed during
the transitional phase of structural adjustment; (ii} young graduates and
drop-outs of the education system; and (iil) the most impoverished and
vulnerable groups of the population, including unqualified women and the
young with insufficient resources to directly undertake self-employment.
4.41      The main actions to promote employment under the Project would be
undertaken through a newly-created National Employment Fund (FNE) which
would finance five important activities (see Annex 7):
a)   systematic collection of information on training and lob
opportunities and transmittal of that information;
b)   strengthening of formal vocational training;
c)   support for on-the-job training;
d)   support for individual initiatives aimed at self-employment; and
e)   advisory and financial support for the creation and expansion of
micro-enterprises.
The Project would also finance several studies which will contribute to the E
future development of national policy in the employment sector and support
the reinforcement of the planning capacity of the Labor HinistLy.
4.42      Policy Design--Studies/Surveys.  The Project would finance the
completion of a national manpower survey, which has been started by MTPS,
but which has been halted for lack of funds. It would also finance the
development of criteria for taking labor content into account for the
appraisal of investment projects and the identification of such projects in
the Public Investment Program. Finally, it would finance three preliminary
studies: the first on the capacity of vocational training centers; the
second on the feasibility of creating a national voluntary service corps in
order to provide practical experience to the young unemployed; and the
third on an estimation of the potential for job creation in the informal
sector.



29
4.43      Action Program--National Employment Fund.  The FNE has been
created by presidential decree as a separate legal entity. It is largely
autonomous, essential if it is to avoid day to day political pressures in
the distribution of its funds, but under the general responsibility
("tutelle") of MTPS. '.'he Director General has been named by presidential
decree. The Board of Directors is composed of 12 members: six representing
the private sector (from the chamber of commerce, industry and mines,
employers organizations, and trade union organizations), four representing
individual interested ministries, one representing the Presidency, and a
President, choosen from the private sector, named by decree. The Board
will meet at least twice a year to decide on the FNE's organization,
operating and financial policies, and annual budgets and accounts. The
Director General is a senior Cameroonian, chosen for his/her management
qualifications and experience in the private sector. He will be a member
of t'ce CTC/DSA (see para. 4.76). He will be assisted by an
internationally-recruited advisor experienced in labor market issues,
including training. He will exercise the day to day operations of the F1PE,
hire and fire staff, insure coordination with the various partners in the
FNE and with donors, prepare and submit to the Board of Directors for
approval ann al budgets and reports, and initiate, sub4ect to Board
approval, the opening and closing of regional offices. The organization of
the FNE, to be decided by the Board of Directors, will be kept as light as
possible, with four divisions (for employment and training assistance,
program management, internal control and program evaluation, and finance
and administration). The program management division will have two units,
one dealing with support to self-employment and micro-enterprises, and the
other with formal training and on-the-job training. There will be a field
office in Douala and others will be created temporarily as warranted. The
FNE is expected to employ a staff of about 25 at all levels when in full
operation.
4.44      It will take some time for the FNE to build its staff and define
its operating procedures, and for that reason it is not expected to be in
full operation until the third Project year. Priority will be given to
establishing the Employment and Training Assistance Division (DAIR)
(para. 4.47), urgently needed to facilitate job placement for departing
public sector employees and university and secondary school graduates. As
noted below, the training, self-employment, and micro-enterprise components
would be phased (paras. 4.48, 4.50, and 4.51).
4.45      Estimated costs of the FNE (including contingencies and excluding
taxes) over the four years are as follows:
Base Costs of the FNE
USS million
Employment and training assistance (DAIR)              2.1
Formal training                                        6.9
On-tho-job training                                     4.4
Self-employment                                        10.0
Micro-enterprises                                       6.4
FNE administration /                                    2.4
Total                    31.1
sf Exclusivo of DAIR costs.



30
The FNE would be financed by external donors (852) and the Government
(152). During project execution an effort would be made to secure private
sector financial support, essential if the FNE is to be more than a
temporary institution. Studies to be financed outside the FNE (see
para. 4.41) are estimated to cost US$ 1.6 million equivalent of which US$
0.7 million is needed for the manpower survey.
4.46      A plan for FNE start-up activities was agreed upon during
negotiations. Appointment of the internationally recruited adviser to the
Director General would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
The effectiveness of the ADB Loan Agreement, the constitution of the FNE's
Board of Directors, the exe:ution of a subsidiary agreement between the
Government and the FNE to ?ass on loan proceeds to the PNE as grants, the
adoption of an organization chart and operating procedures, acceptable to
the Bank, the appointment of the manager of the DAIR and of the manager of
the FNE Service responsible for self-employment and his advisor, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, would be conditions
of disbursement for the vocational training and self-employment programs of
the FNIE. Further details on the organization and operation of the PNE may
be found in Annex 5.
4.47      The Employment and Training Assistance Division (DAIR) of the FNE
would (i) collect data and maintain a data bank on training opportunities
of all types and on employment opportunities, and (ii) based on the data
collected, offer advisory services to job seekers. Its main clients are
expected to be persons laid off from the public sector, notably from the
public enterprises to be closed or reorganized under the Structural
Adjustment Program, and graduates from secondary schools and universities
who are unable to find jobs directly. Candidates would be interviewed
individually by trained employment counsellors, and would be advised how to
proceed: whether to seek employment directly in their present field of
competence, whether to seek retraining under one of the programs to be
assisted by the PNE (or elsewhere), whether to seek assistance in becoming
self-employed, or whether to seek assistance in setting up a micro-
enterprise. Further information on the DAIR's organization and operation
is given in Annex 6. It is expected that some 5,000-6,000 job seekers a
year will be interviewed and offered advisory services. The main office of
the DAIR will be in Yaounde where a majority of the persons to be
discharged by public enterprises are now located, but there will be a
decentralized intervention unit in Douala, and in other centers as needed.
4.48      During the transition period of structural adjustment, many job-
seekers will have basic skills, although their qualifications may not meet
the requirements of potential employers. If possible, such persons should
be oriented toward recruitment and retraining by potential employers,
through the on-the-job training and apprenticeship program described below.
However, a significant number will need to be directed to formal vocational
training centers. The FNE will support such centers in two ways: first, by
providing resources to co-finance the fees required of individual trainees
(FNE would pay these directly to the training institutions), and second, by
financing the institutional strengthening and expansion of a few selected



31
training institutions. A budget of US$ 9C0,000 is included in the Project
for the first of these actions, and a budget of US$ 5 million for the
second. In the second category, CENAFOP, one of the country's main
training centers, is already receiving major financial support under the
Bank financed Education and Vocational Training Project. The SDA Project
would provide resources to develop the training programs of Opportunities
Industrialization Centers--Cameroon (COIC), which has a training center in
Buea and plans a new one in Douala. and the Rapid Vocational Training
Centers (Centres de Formation Professionnelle Rapide--CFPR) operated in
five cities by MTPS. COIC would in the first two years concentrate on
consolidating its existing training facility and adding training in simple
business practices, and only in the third year open the new center in
Douala. Of the US$ 4 million included in the Project for OIC,
US$ 3 million would be financed through a grant from USAID, which already
financed COIC's start up, and the balance through the Bank's loan. Other
NGOs capable of providing relevant training,, such as APICA and IPD, may
also be given institutional support. Training institutions benefitting
from either category of support would enter into an agreement with the FNE
specifying the type of training to be offered and the criteria for
selecting training candidates.
4.49      The on-the-ijob training program, for which US$ 4.4 million has
been allocated, would finance part of the cost of training new recruits in
enterprises in both the modern and the informal sectors. Candidates for
the modern sector would normally be former state enterprise employees who
are already professionally experienced and only need retraining in new
skills or technologies to qualify for jobs in private enterprises.
Candidates for the informal sector would be mainly young, first-time job
seekers who have few resources and who personally have no access to the
labor market. The FNE contribution to training costs would be higher for
firms that agreed in advance to hire the trainee at the end of the training
period. The FNE would negotiate an agreement with each enterprise and
trainee.
4.50      The self-employment program targets young graduates from
vocational and technical schools and from higher education, as well as
laid-off employees. It would provide grants for very small projects (up to
CFAF 1,500,000, equivalent to US$ 5,000) generating at least one job (the
job seeker's own), subject to presentation of a credible business plan. If
the candidate had received a separation payment from a previous employer,
he would be expected to contribute that to the capital of his new business.
Several self-employment programs have been attempted in Cameroon with some
success, including one developed by the Polytechnical School of Yaounde for
rather highly-trained young graduates, and the Enterprise Creation Center
of Yaounde, supported by Canadian aid, which helps young would-be
entrepreneurs to create small businesses. A similar program is being
started by OIC to help its trainee graduates to set up "franchise"
businesses. These three agencies, and possibly others, could benefit from
the self-employment support program. They would be invited to recommend
graduates of their training programs with identified entrepreneurial
aptitudes. The FNE would itself evaluate other candidates directly.
Because the self-employment program is innovative and has not thus far been



32
tested, it would be subject to detailed review and evaluation after the
first US$ 2 million had been committed, and in any case no later than
December 31, 1992. The results of that review and evaluation would be
discussed with the Bank, and commitment of further funds for this program,
for which an additional US$ 8 million has been allocated, would only be
made with the agreement of the Bank.
4.51      The micro-enterpr'se support program would target job seekers
with entrepreneurial skills with at least a modicum of financial resources
(including any separation payments from their previous employers), capable
of achieving projects generating more than one job (up to five). Creation
and expansion of small businesses are critical to the recovery and long-
term growth of the Cameroonian economy. Cameroon has made a number of
attempts to support the development of small enterprises, so far
unsuccessfully (see para. 3.22 above). However, the expansion of small
private entrepreneurship is fundamental to the growth process, and it is
important that Cameroon gain further experience in developing micro and
small enterprise support programs, despite the risks. For this reason, the
FNE would enter this field very cautiously, and in an initial pilot phase,
lasting two years, only on a very small scale. The program would extend
financial support en a grant basis to NGOs and other organizations that
provide training and/or advisory services to start or expand micro-
enterprises. It would also stand ready to refinance small credits made on
market terms (3-5 years, initially at 12Z) of up to CFAF 20 million
(US$ 65,000 equivalent) extended to micro-enterprises by financial
institutions. Perhaps 15-20 such small projects might be financed during
this pilot phase.  Lending decisions (end attendant risks) would be taken
by the financial institutions themselves, not by the FNE. Several
financial institutions have expressed interest in having access to such a
facility, to the extent that their own resources may be insufficient,
including: the Cameroon Cooperative Credit Union League, the Caisse Commune
d'Epargne et d'Investissement, and the Union des Caisses Populaires de
Yaound6. The unit administering the micro-enterprise support program would
be assisted during the two-year pilot ph4se by an internationally-recruited
advisor. After the US$ 2 million had been committed, and in any case no
later than December 31, 1992, an evaluation would be made of results
achieved by an independent evaluation committee, and, in the light of that
evaluation, a decision would be taken as to whether to continue the
program, and, if so, on what scale and through what means. Thus an initial
US$ 2 million is included for the credit program during the first phase,
and US$ 4 million for the possible second phase.
4.52      Institutional Strengthening.  The Project would also provide
financial support for the reinforcement of the Labor Ministry's planning
capacity. This strengthening would include improving and certifying the
qualifications of staff, and determining future material, technical
assistance, and training needs. As in other ministries, consultant
services would be provided by ISMP, reinforced as needed with
internationally-recruited consultants, to organize and supervise seminars
and training sessiG..s for planning staff.



33
Women in Development
4.53      The Women in Development (WID) module of the SDA Project is
designed to strengthen the Government's capacity to improve women's welfare
and contribution to economic growth. The proposed Project would be a
vehicle for introducing policy and institutional changes designed to
alleviate the multisectoral constraints which hamper women's full
participation in development and to bring the WID perspective into the
mainstream of all development activities. The WID module would support a
combination oft (a) policy design involving the definition of an
operational strategy and its implementation through a multisectoral action
plan; (b) specific actions to (i) launch an information, education, and
communication program; and (ii) reorient existing support services for
women towards the development of cost-effective and sustainable productive
activities; and (c) introduce policy and institutional strengthening
measures. Details on the organization of the module's components may be
found in Annex 8. The interests of women would also be addressed in other
modules of the SDA Project, especially the maternal and child health care
program, the family planning program, the FNE, PRODEC, and the household
survey component.
4.54      Policy Design.  The Government has recognized the need for a
better understanding of women's economic and social roles and contribution
to particular sectoral activities, and for an integrated set of policy
actions to enable their increased participation in economic development.
In order to provide a more suitable policy and institutional environment
for this broad-based approach, MINASCOF would coordinate the preparation of
a Multisectoral WID Strategy to ensure the participation of women in the
growth process by increasing women's welfare and their ability to respond
to a changing economic environment. A program of studies would be
developed with the objectives of (i) assessing the role and situation of
women; (ii) identifying the constraints that limit their participation in
economic development; (iii) identifying programs and approaches that have
successfully addressed these constraints; (iv) recommending concrete
activities to improve women's contribution and participation; and
(v) identifying the appropriate institutional channels for the execution of
these recommendations. A preliminary proposal, developed by MINASCOF, for
the multisectoral strategy is included in Annex 8. The Strategy and Action
Plan would be adopted after discussion with the Bank. It would be
incorporated into a policy statement to be adopted not later than March 31,
1992. Prior to this, a Pres!dential Decree, to be issued by September 30,
1991, would reorient MINASCOF's mandate towards a conceptual, normative,
and coordination role on all women's issues.
4.55      The existing interdisciplinary task force, with representatives
of the Government, would be expanded to include the private sector and NGOs
as well as the academic world, and would formulate an operational strategy
for the execution and monitoring of the multisectoral action plan. Overall
leadership for the formulation and implementation of this plan would be
assumed by the Planning, Coordination, and Evaluation Division of MINASCOF
to be created under the Project (para. 4.59). The Project would finance



34
consulting services and related preparatory work for the Strategy and
Action Plan, as well as the organization of seminars.
4.56      Action Program.  The action program of the WID module includes an
Information, Education and Communication Program and the reorientation of
MINASCOP's support services in both urban and rural areas. An efficient
information strategy is necessary to sensitize the population to the
benefits of effective integration of women in development and to ensure
increased awareness of the opportunities that will be made available to
women. The primary objective of this action would be to produce and
disseminate effective information materials in order to reach four
categories of people: (i) disadvantaged women, (ii) decision makers, (iii)
persons working with women at the grass-root level (rural animators,
community development agents, personnel of the social centers and women's
centers, NGOs), and (iv) the Cameroonian population in general. The
Information and Documentation Service of MINASCOF would have the primary
responsibility for this action. The Project would finance technical
assistance, equipment for the Information and Documentation Service and
training of its staff, as well as the production of informational
materials.
4.57      As stated in para. 3.24, the Government is committed to
increasing the impact of its existing support services for women by
(i) rationalizing the urban structures of MINASCOF including their
juridical status, introducing cost-recovery principles, and reorienting
their activities to providing assistance in setting up and managing
productive and competitive self-employment activities (i.e. micro-
enterprises); and (ii) strengthening assistance to rural women's groups in
formulating and managing small projects. The Education Service of MINASCOF
would have the primary responsibility for this action. The Project would
finance technical assistance, training of staff, production of manuals,
basic equipment, and the organization of seminars for adult women.
4.58      Institutional Strengthening.  The reorientation of MINASCOF's
mandate and the successful implementation of the multisectoral WID strategy
and action plan require strengthening of MINASCOE's capacity for planning,
coordination, and evaluation, and the establishment of effective
institutional linkages to enable the concerns of women to be fully taken
into account throughout the public sector. To this end, the Project would
assist the Government in defining and establishing a system of
institutional linkages (interministerial consultative and coordinating
mechanisms, training workshops and seminars, information programs, etc.)
enabling MINASCOF to ensure due consideration of women's issues in the
interventions of line ministries and other agencies.
4.59      MINASCOF would create, not later than December 31, 1990, within
its General Secretariat a Planning, Coordination, and Evaluation Division
(CPCE), which would be responsible for the development of the WID strategy
and action plan, coordination with line ministries and other agencies
involved in the execution of the action plan, as well as the evaluation of
the programs targeted at women. The existing Statistics Service of
MINASCOF would be integrated into this new unit. To this end, the Project



35
would finance technical assistance, equipment, training of CPCE staff,
seminars, and local travel. Adoption of the Presidential Decree creating
this Division (a satisfactory draft of which has been reviewed in the
Bank), would be a condition for disbursements of the CIDA funding of the
WID module, which would be administered by the Bank.
4.60      Management and Implementation.  A coordinator would be appointed
in the office of the Minister of Social and Women's Affairs in order to
assure coordination of the programs financed under this module, and to
represent MINASCOF in the CTC/DSA. A detailed implementation plan for the
information, education, and com-unication and sensitization and support
services components were agreed upon at negotiations. As part of the
general evaluation of the SDA project, a mid-term evaluation would be
carried out at the end of 1992 to assess progress in the implementation of
the WID module.
4.61      The cost of the WID module (including contingencies and exc'uding
taxes) is estimated at US$ 5.9 million equivalent as follows:
USS million
Policy Design
Action Program                       8.1
of which:
Information, education A                     1.1
coimunlcation program
Reorientation of support                     1.9
services
Institutional Strengthening          1.8
Module monawognt                     0.1
Detailed costs and elaboration of the components of this module may be
found in Annex 8.
Community Development--PRODEC (Action Program)
4.62      Community activities at the grassroots level are particularly
important for socio-economic development because they can accurately
reflect the real needs and cultural preferences of communities and
encourage people to take responsibility for their own future. During
periods of crisis, when Government and other resources are increasingly
scarce, grassroots activities become increasingly important as a means of
promoting development. To strengthen the Government's policy of support to
grassroots activities, an urban Community Development Program (PRODEC),
with initial funding of US$ 5 million, has been set up as a financial and
institutional mechanism to support, through grants, community groups'
endeavors to improve their welfare, by providing essential infrastructure
and services and by generating productive activities. The Program would
target the urban9 poor, defined as those unable to meet their basic needs
9PRODEC is limited to non-agricultural projects, primarily in urban areas.
A complementary program, the proposed Food Security Project, would provide
funding to agricultural (inclusive of livestock, forestry, and fishing)
projects, including those in urban areas. While PRODEC would be primarily



36
because of low or reduced income levels, and/or whose lack of access to
social services and factors of production (particularly capital and
training) have made them especially vulnerable during the current crisis.
PRODEC would provide financial assistance to NGOs, community groups, and
individuals who need financing for: (i) small-scale social infrastructure
benefitting the community, (ii) social services for the community in the
areas of hygiene, health, education, training, and nutrition, (iii)
training and management support in simple business skills, and (iv) small-
scale income generating activities (micro-enterprises) undertaken by groups
or individuals.
4.63      The identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision of
projects would be carried out by field agents at the regional level. In
each province where PRODEC would be represented, a Provincial Committee,
-omposed of one representative each of the Governor, MINPAT, and MINFI, as
well as the mayor of the provincial capital, would review project
applications. Thus project selection would be a bottom-up process,
emanating from the grassroots. The field agents would hold regular
meetings of all community groups, NGOs, and other organizations involved in
the identification and/or execution of PRODEC projects. The coordination
of PRODEC activities would take place at the central level. At this level,
PRODEC would have a management unit, attached to the CTC/DSA, composed of a
unit chief assisted by a project assistant and a secretary. Financial
management would be assured by the accountant in the management unit of the
CTC/DSA (see para. 4.76). Initially, PRODEC would have four regional field
agents, in Yaounde, Douala, Garoua, and Bamenda. In these four cities a
set of pilot projects have been identified, which can be started as soon as
funding is available.
4.64      During negotiations agreement was reached on an operation plan
for PRODEC. On this basis PRODEC would establish detailed guidelines for
project selection, appraisal and supervision acceptable to the Bank.
Community groups benefitting from grants would have to contribute
substantially to the proposed project financially and/or in kind. Project
sustainability would also have to be demonstrated.
4.65      Over four years US$ 0.81 million equivalent, in addition to the
US$ 5 million operations fund, would be allocated for the administration of
PRODEC (including its field agents).
4.66      Further details on the structure and management of PRODEC,
project selection criteria and approval procedures, as well as examples of
potential projects identified during the preparation phase, may be found in
Annex 9.
4.67      Legislation establishing PRODEC was enacted in April, 1990 and
PRODEC's unit chief has been appointed. The adoption of operating
guidelines (para. 4.64), and the effectiveness of the ADB loan agreement
focused on urban areas, small rural health and education projects, not
covered by the Food Security Project, would be included under PRODEC.



37
would be conditions of disbursements for this module under the proposed
loan.
Planning Capacity and Information Base
4.68      In Cameroon, two major problems make it difficult to integrate
the social dimensions into macroeconomic and sectoral decision-making:
(i) the lack of appropriate tools for the simulation of the impact of
economic policy choices on the distribution of income and employment; and
(ii) the absence of a viable information base which would permit the
measureLient of poverty and allow one to follow the evolution of the living
conditions of households during the adjustment and development processes.
The planning capacity and information base module would provide support to
the Government in both these areas.
4.69      Planning Capacity.  This sub-component would reinforce the
ability of the Planning Directorate of MINPAT to take Income and employment
effects into account in the elaboration of macro-economic strategies, and
to integrate the results of simulations into the elaboration of the
Structural Adjustment Program and the national development plans. The sub-
component would take as its starting point the general equilibrium model
developed by MINPAT. It would include:
a)   regular updating of the social accounting matrix so that it may
serve as the basis for the model;
b)   re-estimating the parameters of the model on the basis of the
most recent statistical data;
c)   producing, on a regular basis, alternative macro-economic policy
scenarios to illustrate the distributional impact of various
policies; and
d)   integrating the results of these scenarios into the macro-
economic strategy documents prepared by the Government.
Under the sub-component three principal elements would be financed:
a)   short term training abroad, for high-level civil servants within
the Ministry, in the elaboration and operationalization of
general equilibrium mcdels;
b)   short term technical assistance to aid in the development and
operationalization of the model; and
c)   computer equipment and logistical support for the Macro-economic
Projection Unit of the Directorate of General Planning.
4.70      The Information Base.  This sub-component of the Project would
reinforce the ability of the Statistics Directorate of MINPAT to assess the
incidence of poverty in Cameroon, to identify vulnerable groups, and to
follow the evolution of the standard of living of different groups of the



38
population during the processes of adjustment and development. This sub-
component is based primarily on the establishment and use of a system of
household surveys. It would also provide support to the Statistics
Directorate for improving the collection and quality of data for price
indices. A User's Committee including representatives of, e.g., MINPAT,
MINEDUC, MINACRI, MINASCOF, and MINSANTE, would be established not later
than September 30, 1990.
4.71      The Cameroonian Household Survey System (ECAM) includes three
types of surveys: priority, integrated and community surveys. The priority
(or monitoring) surveys (PS) planned in 1990, 1993 and 1994 would focus on
the identification of target groups and the follow-up of key social
indicators; it would be based on a light questionnaire and a large sample.
Data collection in the field would last two months. The integrated survey
(IS) would be based on smaller sample and a complete questionnaire covering
various elements of the living conditions of households: employment,
income, consumption, savings, housing, access to social services (education
and health), and nutrition. The questionnaire would be set up to develop
information on the condition of women within the household. It would be
conducted in 1991-1992. Data collection would last one year. The cummnity
srvey would be established in 1983 and would focus on socio-eccnomic
variables at the level of the village, the market, the school, health
center, etc. The system of data collection would be based on a network of
ten decentralized field units, and on the rapid integration of data
provided by the field units by a central unit within the Statistics
Directorate. Published results would be available three months after the
data collection for the PS. For the IS, the first preliminary results
would be available six months after the beginning of the field operations.
Special emphasis would be put on data analysis and use; in this, the User's
Committee would play an important role. A copy of the survey data would be
sent to the Bank.
4.72      This sub-component would cover equipment, training and operating
costs of the surveys from 1990 through 1993. Subsequently, the priority
survey would be integrated into the regular activities of the Statistics
Directorate.  Establishment of ECAM's Users' Committee no later than
September 30, 1990 is a dated convenant of the loan agreement. Further
details on the organization and operation of ECAM may be found in Annex 10.
4.73      In 1983-84 Cameroon conducted a Household Expenditure and
Consumption Survey. From the survey data a national price index (INP) has
been built. In June 1989 a national workshop was held in order to present
this price index and its methodology, as well as the documents for the
collection of prices. All ministries involved and the Planning Ministry's
regional services participated. The Project would support the INP by
providing equipment for the central office in MINPAT's Directorate of
Statistics and for the regional services, training, international
assistance, and the operating cost of price collection in the major cities
of Cameroon during the period 1990 to 1994.
4.74      Management and Implementation.  Task management for the
improvement of planning capacity would be assured by MINPAT's Director of



39
Planning, and for the information base by MINPAT's Director of Statistics.
During negotiations detailed plans for the implementation of the household
survey and the price indices were agreed upon.
4.75      Over four years the cost of the US$ 7.4 million (including
contingencies and excluding taxes) planning capacity and information module
are estimated as followss
US$ ml i l ion
Planning COpocity                              1-0
Camoroonian Household Survey                   4.1
Price InJex                                    2.3
C.   Project Administration
4.76      Competent, hands-on, managcment is critical to the success of
this Project. Overall management and coordination of the Project would be
assigned to a Technical Committee for the Coordination of the SDA Project
(CTC/DSA), under the supervision ("tutelle") of the Presidency. The
CTC/DSA is presided over by a senior Administrator who has access to all
top officials concerned with the Project. Working on the Project full-
time, he would be responsible for assuring that the Project is implemented
expeditiously. He would effectuate coordination with and among managers of
the various Project modules. The implementation of the various modules of
the Project would be distributed among the six ministries concerned:
MINPAT, MINSANTE, MINEDUC, MESIRES, MTPS, MINASCOF, and the National
Employment Fund (FNE). Each would designate a senior official to
coordinate activities within their ministry (and the FNE). Those
officials, together with representatives of the Presidency, the Ministries
of Finance (MINFI) and of Territorial Administration (MINAT), and the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CM) would constitute the CTC/DSA.  This
structure is shown graphically in Annex 11. The Presidential Decree
setting up the CTC/DSA and defining its functions was signed on April 5,
1990. At the same time, the Administrator was appointed. Appointment of
the other members of the CTC/DSA and its deputy administrator and
accountant would be a condition of effectiveness. The Administrator would
be in charge of a small Project management unit consisting of a project
officer, an accountant, and support staff as needed. The management unit
would be provided with a car and appropriate office equipment including a
computer. A budget of US$ 1.0 million equivalent (including contingencies
and excluding taxes) would be provided for the CTC/DSA under the Project.
The Administrator would also be in charge of the PRODEC management unit
(see para. 4.63).
4.77      During the Project's start-up period the Administrator would:
a)   initiate the measures necessary for the financial coordination of
the Project, including the requested loan from the World Bank;



40
b)   supervise the preparation and adoption of the legal texts
necessary for the Project, in particular the texts covering the
organization and operation of the FNE, PRODEC, and of MINASCOF;
c)   assure the appointment of managers for the Project modules within
the ministries concerned; and
d)   help organize negotiations with other donors and undertake
whatever measures other donors may require for their funding to
become effective.
4.78      During the execution of the Project the CTC/DSA would:
a)   ensure that the various agencies executing Project modules
prepare and submit periodical reports on the progress of the
modules for transmission to the Bank and other financiers;
b)   prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the Project for the
Bank and other financiers;
c)   keep the financial accounts for the Project as a whole and manage
the Project's funds;
d)   ensure that the various agencies exe ating Project modules
prepare and submit withdrawal reque cs along with appropriate
documentation to be checked in the management unit of the CTC/DSA
and then forwarded to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement;
e)   undertake regular supervision missions to ensure appropriate
management of the various Project modules;
f)   ensure liaison with the Project's financiers including assisting
with and participating in supervision missions;
g)   organize the mid-term evaluation of the SDA Project, and the
special evaluations of the micro-enterprises and self-employment
programs of the FNE, and of the WID module;
h)   verify, if necessary, the appropriateness of any changes in the
organization or content of the Project, or the redistribution of
Project funds between modules, in order to make proposals to the
Project's financiers; and
i) make sure that the Project's accounts are audited in conformity
with legal agreements with the financiers.
4.79      The Project Administrator would have special responsibility for
overseeing the strengthening of the planning capacities of six of the
ministries concerned with the Project (MINPAT, MINSANTE, MINEDUC, MESIRES,
MTPS, and MINASCOF), as described in the sections of the report dealing
with those sectors. To that end, the CTC/DSA would enter into a contract



41
with ISMP, which would be engaged for two years to advise and support those
ministries in their strengthening efforts. The Administrator would also
oversee the introduction of program budgeting in MINSANTE (see para. 4.20).
To that end, he would employ an internationally-recruited expert on program
budgeting for three years, to work closely with this ministry (and with
MINPAT and MINFI) on the design and implementation of the new program
budgeting system. The costs of the consultants on planning capacity and
program budgeting are included in the cost estimates of the respective
modules. The Administrator would also oversee arrangements for informing
potential Project beneficiaries and the general public about the Project.



42
D.    Project Costs, Financing and Supervision
4.80        Costs.   The following table summarizes the Costs of the Project
by module  (USS million equivalent)s
X Totel
X ForoTgn         B...
LocDI Foreign    Tote l       Exchangeo        Costs
Population
Policy Design                   0.1      0.0      0.1             2.2%        0.2X
Action Program                  1.B      3.1      4.4           71.80         5.1X
Sub-Total             1.4      3.1      4.6           89.1%        5.3X
Health
Pollcy Design                   0.3      0.0      0.8             0.01        0.8X
Action Program                  4.4     11.8     16.2           72.rs        18.7%
Institutional Strengthening     1.2      0.8      1.9           89.8%         2.2X
Module Management               0.8      0.0      0.8             1.OX        0.9%
Sub-Total             8.7    12.6      19.2           e6.4x       22.2X
Education and Training
Action Program                  7.7      1.9      9.8            19.8Z       11.11
Module Management               1.0      0.0      1.0            0.8%         1.1%
Sub-Total                     1.9    10.6            17.83        12.55
Employment
Policy Design - Studies/Surveys 1.4      0.0      1.4            0.9S         1.61
Action Program - FNE
Administration                1.8      0.9      2.2           42.91         2.65
Programs
Employ. A Trg. Aest. Div.  1.6       0.6      2.0           24.81         2.8x
Formal Vocational Trng.    8.0       8.0      5.9           60.0%        8.8%
On-The-Job Trg./Apprent.   2.2       2.2      4.4           50.0%         5.1%
Self-Employment             6.0      5.0    10.0            60.0%        11.6X
Micro-Enterprise Support   8.2       3.1      6.8           49.1%         7.81
Institutional Strengthening     0.8      0.2      0.6           a6.9x         0.6%
Sub-Total            17.7     15.0     32.7           4.OX       37.U8
Women In Development
Policy Design                   0.6      0.8      0.9            84.61        1.1%
Action Program                  1.6      1.8      2.9           4B.1%         8.8%
Institutional Strengthening     1.2      0.6      1.8           a8.6%         2.1X
Module Management               0.1      0.0      0.1            12.7X       0.1%
Sub-Total             8.4      2.3      5.7           89.85       G6.M
Comunity Development - PRODEC
Action Program                  2.5      2.6      6.0           50.01         6.9%
Iodule Management               0.7      0.2      0.9            17.79        1.0%
Sub-Total             3.2      2.7      S.9           45.25        6.85
Planning Capacity and Information Base
Support Macroeconomic Planning  0.5      0.4      0.9           46.81         1.1%
Information Base
Household Surveys             8.2      0.9      4.1           22.6          4.7%
Price Index                   1.9      0.1      2.0            5.8%         2.8%
Sub-Total             5.6      1.5      ?.1           20.81        8.2X
SDA Project Management               0.8      0.1      0.9             9.9%        1.0%
Total BASELINE COSTS           47.4    39.2    86.6             45.3X       100.0O
Physical Contingencies        1.6      1.2      2.8           42.81         8.2X
Price Contingencies           8.1      1.9      6.0           87.41         6.7X
Total PROJECT COSTS            62.0     42.8     94.8           44.8%       108.9x
less TAXES                _ 8.         0.0      a.6            O.O%        9.9%
Total TO BE FINANCED           48.2    42.6    86.7             49.6%        99.0X



43
By category of expenditure, these costs would be distributed as follows
(US$ million):
I Foreign    X Totsl
Lovel Foreign  Total     Exehana  Base Costs
A. Consultant Services & Training   9.6    4.7   14.8      88.1%     16.6%
B. Equipment and Supplies I/   8.6   16.8   26.4          68.1       29.40
C. Operating Expenditures      6 8.8    1.6    8.8         17.5%      9.61
0. Sub-ProJects (FNE, PRODEC,Pop.) 16.2   10.2   82.6      6O.0%     37.6X
E. Salaries                    0.1    0.0    6.1           C.OX       7.OX
Total BASELINE COSTS      47.4   89.2   86.        -  45.85     100.0X
Physical Contingencies         1.$    1.2    2.8           42.8X      8.21
Price Contingencies            3.1    1.9    5.0           87.4X      6.7X
Total PROJECT COSTS       62.0   42.3   94.8          44.8X    16.95
less TAXES                     8.6    0.0    8.8           0.0%       9.9%
Total TO BE FINANCED      48.2   42.5   65.7          49.63i     8.0%
I    Includes vehicles, equipment, medical supplies, school desks end teaching materials.
g1   Includes fuel.
The Project would finance about 320 person-months of internationally-
recruited consultants (at US$ 12,000/month, equivalent) and about 200
person-months of local consultants (at USS 5,SOO/month). Draft terms of
reference for long-term consultants are included in the Project File. For
mny of the consultancy assignments qualified Cameroonian consultants would
be available.
4.81      Base costs are in June 1989 prices.  Contingencies amounting to
US$ 7.8 million have been added to base cost estimates (except for the two
funds). Physical contingencies of 5 percent on equipment, vehicles,
incremental operating costs and long-term consultants have been included.
In view of the close link between the Cameroonian and French economies,
price contingencies for both foreign exchange costs and local currency have
been included at 4 percent per annum, which is the Bank's present forecast
for the Manufactured Unit Value (MUV) index for France for the period
1990-95. No contingency allowances have been made for the programs of the
FNE or PRODEC, which are considered to be fixed-amount funds. Taxes are
calculated at US$ 8.6 million.  Detailed costs estimates are presented in
Annex 12.
4.82      Financing Plan.  The Project would be financed by the
US$ 21.5 million equivalent proposed Bank loan, loans from the African
Development Bank, and the Federal Republic of Germany and grants from the
European Community, the Canadian International Development Agency, the
Federal Republic of Germany, the US Agency for International Development,
Japan, the United Nations Development Program and the United Nations Fund
for Population Activities. A financing plan (see paras. 4.83 to 4.85) for
the entire Project and for each of its modules has been substantially
completed. Annex 13 gives the Project financing plan by donor and nature
of costs. A summary is provided belows



44
Flnancina Plan
(usV  millTon eauivalenl)              Share
IBRD                                                   21.5            26%
African Development Bank                               16.0            19%
European Community                                     10.0            12X
Federal Rapublic of Germany                             7.7             9%
Canadian International Development Agency               7.3             9%
France                                                  3.9             5%
US Agency for International Development                 a.5             4%
United Nations Fund for Population                      8.2             4X
Activities
Japanese Yen Grant Facility                             1.0             1%
United Nations Development Program                      0.8             1%
Government                                             10.8            19%
TS.7           100%
4.83      The proposed Bank loan of US$ 21.5 million equivalent would
finance (see para. 4.92): consultant services and training (US$ 2.3
miliion), and training (US$ 0.1 million), equipment and supplies10 (US$ 4.2
million), operating expenditures including fuel (US$ 1.2 million),
contingencies (US$ 1.0 million), and refinancing of the PPF (US$ 0.8
million). A further US$ 9.5 million and US$ 2.5 million would finance PNE
programs and PRODEC sub-projects, respectively.
4.84      The African Development Bank will provide a USS 16.0 million
(equivalent) loan for employment, women in development, and community
development modules. The European Community is to provide a USS 10.0
million (equivalent) grant for the health module. The Federal Republic of
Germany would provide a US$ 4.5 million (equivalent) grant for primary
health care and a US$ 3.2 million (equivalent) loan (0.75Z interest, 40
years maturity including a 10 year grace period) for the purchase of
teaching materials. The Canadian International Development Agency will
provide a US$ 4.0 million (equivalent) grant for the women in development
module, which will be administered by the Bank and is expected to
contribute an additional US$ 3.3 million (equivalent) grant to finance the
Cameroonian household survey system. The French Fonds d'Aide a la
Cooperation expects to put aproximately US$ 3.6 million and US$ 0.3 million
(equivalent) as grants into the health and education modules respectively.
These grants will be part of grants of FF 30 million and 32.5 million which
France expects to devote to these to sectors. USAID is expected to provide
a US$ 3.5 million grant to finance support to NGOs in the Extreme North
Province as part of the action program of the population module, and
support to OIC through the employment module. UNFPA is expected to prov:ide
a grant of US$ 3.2 million (equivalent) to co-finance the population
module. The Japanese yen grant facility administered by the Bank has
confirmed a US$ 1.0 million (equivalent) grant for the population module.
The United Nations Development Program intends to put some US$ 0.8 million
(equivalent), on a grant basis, into support for macro-economic planning.
4.85      The US$ 10.8 million equivalent Government contribution to
Project costs would consist of its 15 percent share of the FNE
10Includes vehicles, equipment, medical supplies, school desks, and
teaching materials.



45
(US$ 4.7 million equivalent), and its coverage of the salaries of present
Government employees who would be assigned to Project tasks, estimated at
US$ 6.0 million equivalent. To ensure that the Government's contribution
to the FNE would be available when needed, it would establish a Project
Account in CFA francs. After an initial deposit of CFAF 100,000,000 (about
USS 0.3 million equivalent) which would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan, the Government would replenish the account as and when
required.
4.86      Because of the nature of Project activities, there would be few
new recurrent expenditures resulting from Project activities, about US$ 1
million equivalent per year, less than 1 percent of annual current
expenditures (aprox. US$ 1.8 billion for FY90) (see Annex 15). The net
effect would actually be smaller since some of these would be financed from
the cost-recovery features of the health and women-in-development modules,
or would be matched by the economies expected from new policies for
granting university scholarships and housing and feeding university
students. The project would increase Cameroon's debt service burden
(approx. US$ 0.4 billion for FY90) slightly, e.g., in the year 2000 project
related repayments are estimated at US$ 4.9 million equivalent (Annex 15).



46
4.87       Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following tables
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US9 Mtill one)
(Including contingencies, excluding taxes)
(amounts In parentheseso would be financed by IBRD)
NOT
ICe       LCB      OTHER   APPLICABLE     TOTALS
Equipmant and Supplilea  0.        4.2                    21.8      26.9
(0.6)31    (4.2)V                           (4.6)
Consultant Servicoej/                         2.6          7.1       9.7
(2.6)                  (2.8)
Training                                      0.1          4.6       4.6
(0. 1)                 (0. 1)
Operating Expenditures                        1.4         10.9       12.8 4/
(1.4)E/                 (1.4)
Sub-Projecto (FNE, PRODEC, Pop.)             12.0         20.6       82.S
(12.0)                 (12.0)
PPF Repayment                                              0.8        0.8
(0.8)     (0.8)
TOTALS                   0.6        4.2      16.1         64.8       86.7
(0.6)     (4.2)     (16. 1)      (0.8)     (21.5)
Vehicles and equipment for employment.
kJ   Equipment, school desks, and teaching materialo for education; vehicles and equipment
for employment, SDA project mana aent, *nd the price indices component of the planning
capacity and Information base module
!/   Of which: technical assistance 421, salorles of recruited personnel 401, studies 11S,
and supervtelon and evaluation 7X.
jI   Includes ctivil servieo salaries (financed by the Governmnt) and fuel.
Includes minor 1item (fuel and supplies) costing US$ 2S,000 or les, with an aggregate
value estimated at USS 0.6 milIIon (equivalent), which would be procured on tho basis
of price quotations from not laes than three reputable suppliers.
Procurement arrangements for individual modules may be found in Annex 14.
4.88       Goods financed by the Bank, would, to the extent prac_ical, be
grouped to encourage competitive bidding. Contracts amounting to
US$ 100,000 (equivalent) or more, would be subject to international
competitive bidding procedures according to Bank guidelines. The aggregate
value of such contracts is estimated to be US$ 0.5 million (equivalent).
Contracts amounting to less than USS 100,000 but more than US$ 25,000
(equivalent), with an aggregate value estimated at US$ 4.2 million
(equivalent), would be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures, acceptable to the Bank. Minor items costing US$ 25,000 or
less, with an aggregate value estimated at US$ 0.6 million (equivalent)11,
would be purchased through quotations solicitated from not less than three
reputable suppliers. All contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000
equivalent would be subject to Bank approval after prior review of
11Fuel and supplies included under operating expenditures.



47
procurement documentation. Funds advanced through the employment fund for
sub-projects would cover allocations for training, advisory services, and
small-scale purchase of goods. Some of these expenditures would not
involve procurement; however, where procurement of goods or small works is
involved, it would be subject to the same rules, except that procurement by
small enterprises receiving funds through the self-employment and micro-
enterprise support programs of the FNE would be in accordance with prudent
business practice. In the case of PRODEC's sub-projects, it would be
impractical for the Bank or the management unit of the CTC/DSA to review in
detail the procurement procedures of NGOs and other agencies implementing
such projects, but the agreements between PRODEC and such agencies would
follow guidelines to be approved by the Bank and would stipulate that
procurement would be in accordance with prudent business practice.
Consultants financed by the Bank would be engaged in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.89      Some of the materials, i.e. school desks/benches valued at USS
2.3 million equivalent (including contingencies and excluding taxes), would
be grouped in small packages suitable for decentralized local tendering
through local competitive bidding procedures. Since these desks are
typically produced by local craftsmen and are expensive to transport,
decentralized local procurement would be both faster and less expensive,
and would have the ancillary benefit of generating rural employment and
income among the bidding craftsmen. This would also eliminate logistical
problems associated with centralized distribution from Yaounde. It is
unlikely that packaging the desks for procurement by ICB would result in
economy or efficiency of procurement. It is also unlikely that
international manufacturers would be interested, in view of the need to
supply the desks at the point of use, given the distribution problems this
would pose.
4.90      Procurement of goods and services financed by other donors would
be in accordance with their own procurement rules.
4.91      Disbursements.  It is estimated that the proposed Bank loan would
be disbursed over a period of six years, compared to a Regional
Disbursement Profile of seven and a half years for technical assistance
projects. The shorter disbursement period is justified by the nature and
timing of Project activities. Year-by-year disbursements of the Loan are
estimated as follows (US$ million equivalent):
FTisca I YOar                 Annual       Cumulative
1992                     6.4             7.6
1998                     4.6             12.0
1994                     8.4            15.6
1995                     3.2             18.7
199B                     2.8             21.5
4.92      The following table summarizes disbursements for the various
Project modules, with contingencies included under "unallocated". The
population, health and WID modules are not included since the Bank loan
will not be used to finance these modules;



48
DISBURSEMENT
Amount of the Loan       Percentage I/ of
Allocatod (Expressed      Expenditures to
Catagory                         In USI millions Equlvalent)    be Financed
Education
- Shol ODesks                                     2.00            10os
- Teaching manuals and materials                  1.60            1001
Etplolment
MTPS Expendituros
- Consultants' services and training              0.80            1001
- Equipment and vehicles                          0.SO            1001/865
- Operating costs                                 0.60            86S
FNE Expenditures
- Consultant services                             1.20            1001
- Equipment and vehicles                          0.20            100%/85%
- Operating costo                                 0.80           8SS
- Vocational Training                             1.00            1001
- Goods and Services for:
Self-employment phase 1                      2.00           1001
Self-employment phase 2                      6.60           100%
Cemmunity Develommat
- consultaint s rvic-e                            0.37            100%
- Goods and services                              2.60            501
PlanninQ Capacity A Information Base
- Consultants, services and training              0.05            1001
- Vehicles and equipment                          0.04            100%/85X
- Operating costs                                 0.10            6%
Projact Administration
-ranling                                          0.09            100%
- Vehicles and equipment                          0.06            1OOX/85%
- Operating couls                                 0.25            65%
Other
-     Repaymnt                                   0.75            Amount Due
- Unallocated                                     1.00
TOTAL                                            FEW
j/   Whore two pereontags are shown, the first roeors to foreign exchange and the econd to
local expenditures.
4.93      A revolving fund in CFA francs would be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Upon loan effectiveness, a sum of
US$ 500,000 equivalent would be disbursed into that account from the Bank's
Loan Account. These funds would be managed by the Project Administrator to
cover Project expenditures. The account would be replenished by the Bank
on the basis of eligible withdrawal applications. Normal documentation
would be submitted with most applications except that expenditures for
goods and services for community development (PRODEC) and the self-
employment program of the PNE, and incremental operating costs in local
currency, would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures with
underlying documentation held available in Yaounde for review by Bank
staff. Should any disbursements be made from tne Special Account that are
not acceptable to the Bank, the Government would deposit the corresponding
amount in the Special Account or refund it to the Bank.



49
4.94      Accounts and Audit.  The Government, through the management unit
of the CTCIDSA, would maintain separate accounts for all Project
expenditures. The accounts and statements of expenditure would be audited
each year by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months following the end
of the Government's fiscal year.
4.95      Reporting.  The Project Administrator would prepare semi-annual
reports to the Bank, as of June 30 and December 31 of each year, describing
the progress of all modules of the Project, problems encountered, solutions
adopted, and the program of work for the following semester. Each report
would include copies of the reports that the Government had received from
agencies implementing sub-projects and reports from the managing units of
both the FNE and PRODEC describing their sub-project monitoring work in the
preceding semester, again highlighting problems encountered and solutions
adcpted.
4.96      Supervision.  The Lank would devote a large amount of staff
resources to this innovative Project, financed in part from the Bank's
administrative budget and in part from the special budget of the
internationally-supported SDA Unit in the Africa Region. The Bank's
resident mission in Yaounde would play an especially important role in
Project supervision. A Project Launching Workshop would be organized with
the participation of Bank staff soon after loan effectiveness, to review
with Government and other staff concerned with the Project, the Project's
objectives, its design and its first-year work program. The Bank would
review a random sample of subprojects financed by PRODEC and credits to
small enterprises financed through FNE, to ensure that Project funds were
being used for the purposes for which they were intended. The Project
would undergo a mid-term evaluation not later than December 31, 1992.
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       Benefits.  The Project should bring benefits to the vulnerable
groups in the population, both in the short and long terms. It should
result in the formulation of cost-effective and well-oriented basic
services in the areas of population, health and education. It should
facilitate the participation of women in development both by improving
programs directly targeted at women, and by ensuring that economic and
social programs directed at the population at large fully take the
interests of women into account. It should enhance the creation of
employment opportunities, notably for persons leaving the public sector,
and offer training and re-training to better equip job seekers to find
employment. It would stimulate small self-help activities at the community
level run by the people who best understand the needs of local groups.
Finally, the Project should help the Government to build up an information
base on the location of poverty and its evolution.
5.2       Risks.  One risk stems from the complex nature of the Project
which would involve many different Cameroonian agencies, not all of which
would automatically move speedily to execute Project components in
accordance with Project objectives. This risk is complicated by the



50
presence of several external donors. A second risk is that there could be,
despite the Government's strong commitment, resistance to the population
and women's components of the Project which may conflict with established
cultural attitudes. A final risk arises from the innovative nature of the
self-employment and micro-enterprise support programs.
5.3       The first risk would be reduced by the Project's modular approach
(para. 4.4) which would simplify Project execution and facilitate the
channelling of external finance. The second risk would be mitigated by the
intensive information programs to be carried out by the Government.
Finally, the safeguards built into the self-employment and micro-enterprise
programs will minimize risks associated with these innovative sectors, and
both would be subject to review after a limited testing period, and
continued only if the review indicates that continuation was justified.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
matters:
a)   the establishment of a health sector coordination mechanism not
later than September 30, 1990 (para. 4.22);
b)   statements of population and health policies, which would be
discussed with the Bank and adopted and issued not later than
June 30, 1991 (paras. 4.6 and 4.13);
c)   A timetable for the introduction of the essential drugs and cost
recovery programs throughout the public health system by December
31, 1992, satisfactory to the Bank, the management of the
proceeds from cost recovery at the level of each facility, and
the communication to the Bank of updated lists of the drugs
concerned by December 31 of each year (para. 4.14);
d)   a program-budgeting system for MINSANTE, satisfactory to the
Bank, which would be defined by December 31, 1991, and the first
program-budget introduced in fiscal year 1992/93 (para. 4.20);
e)   a Multisectoral Strategy to enhance the role of women in
development, which would be discussed with the Bank and adopted
not later than March 31, 1992 (para. 4.54);
f)   ECAM's Users' Committee, which would be established not later
than September 30, 1990 (para. 4.70); and
g)   a mid-term evaluation of the SDA Project, which would take place
not later than December 31, 1992 (para. 4.96).
6.2       During negotiations understandings, the subject of supplemental
letters (a-f) or attached to a letter of transmittal to the Bank (g), was
reached on the following matters:



51
a)   a detailed implementation plan for the action program of the
population module including lists of the health centers and
maternities concerned, and criteria for the allocation of
resources (para. 4.9);
b)   a detailed implementation plan for the logistics, procurement,
and distribution of materials and equipment for each component of
the action program of the health module (para. 4.19);
c)   a plan for FNE start-up activities (para. 4.46);
d)   a detailed implementation plan for the action programs of the
women in development module (para. 4.60);
e)   an operation plan for PRODEC (para. 4.64);
f)   detailed implementation plans for ECAM and the price indices
(para. 4.74); and
g)   a matrix of the actions that the Government will take to address
the social dimensions of adjustment (para. 4.2 and Annex 2).
6.3       The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
a)   appointment of the members of the CTC/DSA and of its deputy
administrator and accountant (para. 4.76);
b)   appointment of the advisor to the Director-General of the FNE
(para. 4.46); and
c)   establishment of the Project Account for the FNE and initial
deposit of CFAF 100 million therein by the Government
(para. 4.85).
6.4       The following would be events of default:
a) a Bank finding that Government performance under the Structural
Adjustment Program was unsatisfactory (para. 4.2) and
b)   A Bank finding that Government performance in the preparation of
the statement of policy, the medium-term action plan and long-
term implementation strategy for education was unsatisfactory
(para. 4.32).
6.5       The following would be conditions of disbursements for the
following modules:
a)   Education: for all categories of disbursements, satisfactory
detailed lists of materials and equipment for the action program
and plans for their procurement Pnd geographic distribution
(para. 4.32).



52
b)   Employment: (i) for the FNE's formal vocational training and
self-employment programs, the effectiveness of the ADB
Agreements, constitution of the Board of Directors of the FNE,
adoption of the organigram and operating procedures for the FNE,
the execution of the FNE subsidiary agreement, and appointment of
the manager of DAIR, of the manager of the FNE unit administering
the self-employment program and of his advisor, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.46). and (ii) for the second phase of the self-employment
program, Bank agreement following evaluation of the first phase
(paras. 4.50).
c)   Community Development:  for the sub-projects of the action
program, the effectiveness of the ADB Loan agreement and adoption
of guidelines for PRODEC sub-project selection, appraisal, and
supervision, acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.67).
6.6       Recommendation.  On the terms and conditions proposed, the
Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of U$ 21.5 million equivalent.



53
Annex 1: Page 1 of 4
Annex 1
Extractsl from the Government's Statement
of Development Strategy and Economic Recovery: Human Resources
and Integration of the Social
Dimensions of Adiustment
e. Human resources
The Government reaffirms its willingness to preserve what Cameroon
has achieved in the field of human resources and to undertake the
followings
-   examine the structural and financial situation of the
education/training and health sectors;
-   define the essential components of the Government's program in
accordance with the vital socio-economic objectives of the
country;
-   propose a strategy which takes into account the resources required
to achieve the country's vital objectives, on the one hand, and
the appropriate budgetary allocations and borrowing policy on the
other.
The above development strategy should help ensure that the process
of structural adjustment does not result in the deterioration of the
most essential social indicators.
i) Education/training
The main lines of action will be the following:
-   prevent any decline in the current school attendance rate at
the primary school level;
-   gradually improve the intrinsic quality of teaching at all
levels;
-   strengthen training activities which are closely linked to
the effective demand in the labor markets;
-   review the objectives of higher education in the light of
the above and, within this context, revise the scholarship
award system in order to make it more efficient and better
adapted to the new socio-economic conditions.
lThe complete text may be found in annex to the "Report of the President
to the Executive Directors on the Structural Adjustment Program in Cameroon"
(Report No. P-5079-CM, dated May 16, 1989).



54
Annex 1s Page 2 of 4
ii) Health
The main lines of the strategy shoulds
- reflect priorities based on a re-examination of the
epidemiological situation and national objectives such as
the promotion of mother and child care and responsible
parenthood;
_ promote preventive and primary health care in rural areas;
- improve the quality of health personnel through training and
re-training;
- in hospitals, emphasize measures designed to rationalize the
system, including the improvement of staff management and
output, and above all, the ability of hospitals to play
their role as referral institutions.
K. INTEGRATION OF THE SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTHNMT
The central objective of the Development Strategy adopted by the
Government is to reestablish sustainable growth with equity over the medium-
term. But growth is not by itself a sufficient condition to reduce poverty and
to improve the living conditions of households. Therefore the Government
intends to implement, at the heart of its Structural Adjustment Program, a
Social Dimensions component with the following objectivess
(a)   In the short- and medium-term, to protect the most
vulnerable groups of the population in the course of the
adjustment program, as well as groups that are directly
affected by adjustment measures;
(b)   In the medium- and long-term, to promote the participation
of the poorest groups of the population in the economic
recovery process.
The implementation of this component hinges on the design and
implementation of five complementary action programs in the following sectorst
population and health, education and training, employment, role of women, and
institutional framework. In this context, the Government intends tot
-     define a new national population policy, and mobilize the
necessary resources to implement it;
-     define a new national health policy, aimed in particular at
strengthening and broadening the national primary health
care program, including the introduction of a family
planning component, and implement the Bamako Initiative, in



55
Annex 1: Page 3 of 4
particular an emergency program of acquisition and
distribution of basic supplies and essential drugs for the
primary health care system;
reorient the national policy for education and human
resource mobilization, and design and implement the
corresponding reforms and operational strategies, in
particulart (i) acceleration and improvement of training of
trainers for technical schools; (ii) redynamisation of
professional training as a function of market needs; and
(iii) implementation of an emergency program of acquisition
of basic supplie.s for primary and technical schools;
establish program-budgets in all social sectors based on
planning by objective, including a core social expenditure
program for the poorest groups in the population;
design and implement a series of actions aimed at promoting
self-created employment and the reinsertion into the private
sector of laid-off civil servants and public enterprise
employees, in particular through (i) technical and financial
support for the creation of micro-enterprises; (ii) on-the-
job training and short-cycle professional training, and
support the implementation of these actions through setting
up a fund for employment;
design and implement the reforms and operational strategies
corresponding to the national policy for the promotion of
women, including (i) the revitalization of the urban
structures of MINASCOF; (ii) a special support for women in
the framework of the micro-enterprise creation program; and
(iii) a program aimed at improving the productivity of women
in rural areas.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Government intends to:
reinforce the planning and coordination of socio-economic
policy by (i) integrating distribution and employment
components in the design of macroeconomic strategies; (i')
reinforcing planning and coordination capacities of the
Ministry of Plan, in particular for integrating human
resource strategies in the overall development strategy;
(iii) reinforcing planning and programming capacities in all
ministries in charge of the social dimensions of adjustment,
in particular for the design and implementation of program-
budgets;
improve the follow-up of the evolution of socio-economic
conditions of the various population groups, through the
implementation of a permanent household survey, and through
the processing of available socio-economic statistics;



56
Annex 1: Page 4 of 4
reinforce the process of participation of grass-roots
organizations in socio-economic development, in particular
through the establishment of a fund for community
development.
I



Annex 2: Page 1 of 12
Annex 2
Matrix of Actions
POPULATIOX
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIONS TAKEN                                MElASES PROPOSED                             TIMETABlE
I. Sectoral Policy: Definition of                  Creation of the National Population           Analysis of demographlc trends and           Jun. 1990
Population Policy                                  Commision and tho Interministorial            implications for social and economie
Techniceal Comitee                           developent
Elaboration of polICy 90o1 by tho            Inventory nd evaluation of                   June 1990
National Population Commislon                experience In family planning
Creation of a group for workshop             Organization of provincial workshops         August 1990
preparation                                  on the draft population policy
doe _ nt to promote national
Organization of a natlonal workshop          coernwsus
Writing of draft population policy           September 30,
document                                     1990
Examination of the draft by the              November 1990
National Population Commission
Completion of the notional population        February 23,
policy documet                               1991
Adoption and publication of the              June _ 0, 1991
national population policy document
It. Action Program. Extension of tho Family        Development of tho high risk                  Elaboratlon of a reference document          June 80, 1990
slanning Program (SMI/PF)                          pregnancy program                             for the Family Planning Program
(SMI/PF)
Nominotlon of people to dovelop the
action program                               Preparatlon of Invitations to bid for        November 1990
family planning supplies
Evaluation of needs for supplies end
personnel                                    Follow-up of the Responsible                 Starting In
Parentbood Program Including review          April 1991
of "GO acttivities



Annex 2: Page 2 of 12
HEALTH
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIONS TAKEN                                MEASURES PROPOSED                            TIMETABLE
I. Soectoral Polity
a)  Definition of health aector              Organixation of a seminar for health         Creation of the Higher Comeisslon on          Jun  30, 1980
policy                                       practitioners to evaluato the the            Hoalth Developmet (CSDS)
health system
Synthonize exleting data and sectoral        July al, 1990
Creation of a Working Oroup on               onalyse.
acetoral policy development
Organization of provincial workshops         October 80,
Inventory and ayntheaiz  oxisting            on the constrainto on and optiona for        1990
date and sectoral analyse3                   aectoral policy
Organization of a national workshop          Syntheale of racomandationa                  Dee mber 31,
1990
Write draft health policy document           February 1991
Adoption of the health policy and an         June 191          t
operational strategy for ita                                   oo
lmplementatlon
b) Definition of coat recovery policy        Pollcy deteroined                            Preparation of draft cgot recovery            July 1990
polley
Pollcy implementation tosts                  Starting April
1991
Adoption and genralxzation of the            December 1992
policy and mebanisms for cost
recovery
II. I,stitutional Strongthening
a) Strengthening of MINSANTE*s                                                            Signing of a technical assistance             June so, 1990
planning capacity                                                                         Contract with ISP
Inventory of existing capacity and           September go,
evaluation of neod                           1990
Elaboration of a plan to strengthen          Novemer 1990
MINSANTE In the areas of training.
personnel, supplies, and equipmnt



Annex 2: Pag 8 of 12
Adoption of the strengthening plean          December 1990
Preparation o training proam  for            February 1991
MINSANTE peosonnel end   rembr of
management comaitten
Training of MINSANTE personnel snd           Starting March
members of manaoement comittasa              1991
(traitring of trainers)
Evaluation and up-dating of the              Annually
str.ngthening plan                           starting 1991
b)  Strengthening of MINSANTE 's                                                          Creatlon of a eoordination structure          June 1990
managoont capacity                                                                        for the Populatlon and Health Modules
of the SOA Project
Recruitment of a consultant export in        August 1990
program budget
Development of methods of proram             September 1990-
budgeting for MINSANTE, taking into          December 1991
aceount the decline in vevrnment
resources while aiming to Improve the
quality of health service.                                     w
Prepartion of a droft progrm budget          January 1992
for fiscal year 1992-93
rIt.  Action Prrog :
Improvement of bsnic health service          Nmtination of people to develop the          Preparation of invitation to bid for         September 30,
delivory and reversal of the tendency        action progra.                               essential medicine, oquipment and             1990
for the quality and scope of service                                                       uppiles, Including yearly vaaccne.
to decline                                   Evaluation of needs for supplies,             upplies
equipmant. initil stock of
meodlcines  vaccine, and personnel           Procuremont                                  November 1990
Inventory and rasosignment of oll
personnel In health centors to be
rehabilitated
a)  Support for primary health                                                            Support for  irimary health care,             Annually
service., vaccination program  and                                                        vaceinatlon cmpigns, EEC, and                 starting 1991
IEC                                                                                       extension of the STO/AIDS program
Strengthening of the vaccination             Annually
program                                      starting 1990
b) Extons.ion of the STD/AIDS prOgram        Doevelopment of anti-AIDS program



An_t 2: Page 4 of 12
EDUCATION
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIONS TAKEN                                   EASURES PRWOSED                             TIMETABLE
I. Sectoral Policy:  Define fundaoental              Preparatlon of Terms of Reforence In           Creation of on intarmnistrial teask            June 1990
tmproveents In the education system to               view of the preparatlon of the new             forte (groups do pilotage) to pilot
permit a) maintaIning the quentitstive               policy and etrotegy                            the design of nw sector policies
aievlewme_t  In primary oducation,
b) Improving the quality of education at oll                                                        Preparation of policy attemest                Dckember 81,
loevls, and c) improving the relevance of                                                                                                         19SD
eduetion and training to the country's
economic and social needso                                                                          Preparation of long-ter  Strategy and         March 1991
medium-tem Action Plan
II.  Institutional Strengthening:                                                                   Siglning of a Tochnical Assistanc              June 1990
Strongthen the capacity of MINEDUC, MESIRES,                                                        contract with ISMP
and the University of Yaound tot
Inventory of existing capabilities            September 1990
a)  Plan their objectives and                                                                and evaluation of needa
oporational etrategie                                                                                 _'
Estabilsment of a strengthoning plan          November 1990    0
for personnel training, supplies and
equipmet In selected scbools
Adoption of the strengthening plan            December 1990
Preparatlon of training programs for          Jsnuary 1991
porsonnel and members of management
comeittees
Training of personnel and maebers ot          Starting March
management committoee  (training of           1991
trainors)
Recruitment of a consultant export In         August 1990
program budget
b)  Manage their resources and                                                              DOevolopment of methods of proream             September 1990
programs more officiently while                                                              budeting for  INDEDUC, taking into            December 1991
taking budgetary restrictions Into                                                           account the decline In Covernment
account                                                                                      resources while aiming to improve the
quality of education services
Preparation of draft prgram budget            January 1992
for fiscal year 1992-98



AneFx 2: Pae 5 of 12
III. Action Program:  Improve tho quality           Establishment of a lhot of teachers'         Deinition of distribution plan for            September 1990
of primary and secondary/technical education       oanuals, equipment, and teaching aids         thseo cuppllea and teaching aids
and proent d ellns In the level of school         for MI4EDUC in acordanco  with
attendance by ensne of quiekly supplying            guideline developod with the Bank            Request bids for manuale, school              October 1990
need reources                                                                                    bencheo, equipment, and teaching aide
Estiatsation of the coat of those
materials



Annex 2 Pago 6 of 12
EMPLOYMENT
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIONS TAKEN                                MEAStRES PROPOSED                            TITABLE
I.    Creation of a ame structure for the           Creation of a National Employment            Internal organization of FME and             October 1990
promotion of employ20nt                      fund (FNE) cotn nced by private and           dbptton of operational procedures
public employrs, wage-arners and
doner
II,   improvem_t of the flow of                                                                  Crato within the FtE a Reinsertion           October 1990
tnfornation In the labor mrket                                                            Assistance Servic, to counsol and
orient job seokers, particularly
these leaivng the public sector
Develop an information systea on the         October 1990
functtening and porformance of the
labor market
Identification of 76 lnittiol public        tinderta e a survey of the types.             July 1990
enterprise   to be reotructured,             charactrisetics, and skillh  of peoplo
privatized, or closed                        likely to leave tbhso public
enterprises
III.  Improvemwt ond adaptation of the                                                           Estebiish progrms of suppor   "- on-         October 19S0
supply of labor                                                                           the-job training and apprtnticess M,                             0'
leading to further employmene .
1. On-the-job training
Establish PAIR within FN£ in vio,s 01        July 1SS0
2. Apprenticeships                                                                        undertaking  ctions of coordination,
assistance ln program design, and
S. Formal training                                                                        channeling of candidates to
appropriate Institutions
Reinforce the actions of OIC Cameroon        Starting
In carefully selected areas                  Oecember 1990
Renforce the actlvities of the Rapid         Startiag
Professional Toalning Centers and the        December 1890
Handicraft Centers
Encourage and support the training           Starting
programs of other local or                   Decembor 1990
international PWOOs in areas of oeed
Finish the inventory of existing             July 1990
Institutional capacity for
professional training



Annex 2: Pe" 7 of 12
IV.   Stimulation of the dtetnd for labor                                                          Establi h a progran of support for
seIf-a_ loyment
1. Self-e_ploymnt
(I) Pilot phase                              December 1090
(11)  Mld-term evaluation                    December 1992
January 1993
(iii) Possible secon" phase
2. Micro-enterprIses                                                                       Establish a program of techntcal *nd
financial assistance to ,xisting and
new micro-enterprisee whicb geerate
cmployment
(I)  Pilot phase                             Dcember 1990
(Ii)  mid-term evaluation                    December 1992
(111)  Possible second phase                 January 1998
a.  Increase the demand for labor                                                          Studies to be undertaken by MIPS in
In the Public Investment Program                                                           view of steadily increasing labor
Intensity of PIP projects:
(i) devolop criteria for project             December 1990    a'
selection which take manpower Into
account
(ii)  Identify labor intensive               December 1990
projects
V.    Improve the functioning of the labor          National Labor Survey: pilot phase            Recruitment of a consultant export in         September 1990
market over the medium and long tor                                                        surveys on manpoer
Finish the National Lebor Survey              December 1992
Study the possiblity of creating a            March 31, 1990
volunteer service os a "oans of
giving youths practical work
experience



Annex 2: Pao e of 12
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIG5 TAXEN                                 MEASWRES PROPOSED                            TIMETABLE
I, leoilopment of a National Stratesy and           Diteeusions of term  of reterence            Literature *earch of studie  on the          October 1990
ction Plan for the inteogration of oemen In                                                      situation of wo-en In Caoro.. *nd
all development actions, and the development        Establtehment of the Consultative            identific tion of knowledge gSY.
of policies to be followed by other                 Cositt.e for the promotlon of woewn
ministries that will ntOegrate the interests                                                     Inventory of aoeniet  active In the           October 19S0
of women Into ecttoral program.                                                                  area of Womba In bevlopsent
Research program on the situation and        Starting March
porticipation of women In key Sectors        1991
of the economy
Formulation of a national strategy           March S1, 1992
and multisectoral action plan as well
as machaniam for Its
operationalisation
II.  Technical and Institutional                                                                 Signature of a decree creating a             December 1990
strengthening of  UD(ASCOF                                                                       Planning, Coordination and Evaluation
Unit within MINASCOF
Strengthning of MINASCOF's technical                                                      Supply necessary   uipoment to the            January 1091      ZI
capscities for planning, coordination                                                     Planning Division (Di-vision do la
and evaluation of all activities                                                          Planitf4ation)
concerning tho fuller Integration of
come  In developmet                                                                       Evaluation of the human resource  and         June 1991
technical oepertise In MINASCOF
Collaboration between MINASCOF and           Starting June
the other ministries to rationalize          1991
the various rural oxtension *nd
conunity devolopment services
Introduction of key indicators of the        Starting June
situation and contribution of woma           1989
In the Permanent Househoid Survey
Annual publicetion of a progreos             Starting 1992
report on the situation of woman
Croation of an administrative unit to        June 1990
supervise the WID module activities
Reorientation of MINASCOF'a mandate                                                       Signature of decree establishing the         September 1991
towards a normative, conceptual and                                                       reoriented role of MINASCOF A spedl-
coordination role.                                                                        fyng operationalization of noew man-
date through system of Institutional
links with key ministries



Annex 2: Page 9 of
III.  Bludgeting                                                                                    Rocrultm2nt of an International                December 1990
Soclo-economlst consultant
Definition of a budgeting mchanilm            Fiscal year
to ensure the sustained and effective         1892-93
iOplementation of tho eultisoctoral
action plan
NY.   Action Progras
A. Rationalization of women"s
support structures
a. Develop_nt and establishement of           Development of terms of reforence for          Training of teach)ng personnel of              Starting July
a phased program to improve the               the study on the rationalization of            urban centors                                  1991
Impact of MINASCOF*s urban support            IINASCOF's urban servicos
services (Woomene Homes  Social                                                              Trainlng of Managers of selected               Starting July
Conters, etc.)                                                                               urban support structures                       1991
Des1gn and publication of manuals for         Starting
the improvment of Hom  Econics                Soptember 1991
programs
Study on Improving the management of          Starting
urban support services and on                 Decemeor 1990
reinforcing mechanims of self-
financing eW
Improvement of Home Economics courses         Starting June
In urban support centers by                   1991
reorienting them towards Income-
generating skills and adding family
planning program
Submission of a list of eolected              Starting July
Urban Centers                                 1990
Implementation of recommendations of          Starting may
the study                                     1990
Training Program for rural anieators          Starting May
b. Strengthenin of the mediating                                                                                                           1991
role of MINASCOFV* rural support
services                                                                                     Supply necessary equipment to rural           Starting may
animators                                     1991
B. Launching of the Information,                  Development of methods for                     Evaluation of the proposed activitieos        Starting August
Education and Comuntecation Program            Iplementing the Progam                        for seltf-fitnancting and IEC activities      1991
(IEC)                                                                                       suggested by solected Urban Centers
Supply Urban Canters with necessary           Starting April
equipent in order to ca ry out self-          1991
financing and IEC activittes



Annex 2: Peg" 10 of 12
Orp° niation In the reinforced urban           Startine
services of coursoo and msminor for            Octobor 1991
adult -enen on the creation and
monagemt of Income  onerating
activitios and on literacy
Recruitment of an internotional                Augut 1991
conoultant expert In IEC
Lounchi e3 of the IEC campaign                 Starting
Decembr 1991
C. Mid-term evaluation                                                                              Joint mid-term eveluation                       December 1992
0o



Annx 2: Peg  11 of 12
coMMITY DEVELOPET
esJECTMS                               ACTMON  TAI0                                   EWASm    PROPOSED gV TiAE
I. Reinforcmeont of co_nwnity participation        Project. identifled and appraleod tn         Eatabishment of manage2ent unit             July 1990
in soclo-economic development                      four clties
Creation of a Comunity Oevlopmet                ge of oe.,  .Ba procedures                         1990
Program                                     Financing of pilot projects                  November 1990
Full Implementation of program in           January 1991
four ares
-J



Annex 2: Page 12 of 12
PUNNING CAPACITY AND INFORIATION BASE
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIONS TAKEN                                  MEASURES PRlPOSED                            TIMETABLE
r.    Intogration of the social dimeneion            Integration Into the Oeclaratioa of           Bring the social accounting matrix up          January 1991
Into the development of macro-                Developpent Strategy                          to date
economic strategios
Reinitiato the soneral oequlibrium            Januory 1991
model
Dovelop ability to illustrate                 January 1991
consoquencos of alternativo economic
policies (scenario.)
rr.   Reinforcement of the ability to                Consumption budget ourvey (EBC) 1983-         User's Committee Establishment                 Septembre 1990
follow the evolution of soci-econoeic         84
conditions at the household level                                                           Prority Survy
Data processing and publication of            - Pro-survoy activities                        July - October
EBC's results                                                                                1990
Preparation of a technical survey             - Field Date Collection                        November -
document                                                                                     December 1990
- Data processing and analysis                January -
August 1991      oa
Init.rated Surve
-            arc-surv ty aetivitie            August - July
1991
- Field Data Collection                       August 1991 -
July 1992
- Data processing and analysis                August -
December 1992
Priority and Community Surveys                January -
Dcember 1998
Third Priority Survey                         January -
December 1994
III.  Follow the evolution of prices                 Price Index collection sminar                 Organize the data collection and keop          Starting
the price indices up to date                  January 1990



69
Annex 3: Page 1 of 8
Annex 3
Population and Health Programs
Obiectives:
1.        The population and health modules of the SDA project aim at
assisting the Government in three areast
(a) Sector Policy Development: The Project would support Government
efforts to prepare a national population policy, a health sector
policy and operational strategy, and an essential drugs and cost
recovery program;
(b) Institutional Strengthening: The Project would improve the
institutional capability of the Ministry of Health (MTNSANTE) by
strengthening the strategic planning, financial management, and
coordination capabilities of the ministry and by instituting a
program-budgeting process to improve resource efficiency in the
sector; and
(c) Action Program: To reverse the decline in quality and coverage
of existing services, the Project would re-equip and revitalize
basic health care facilities and strengthen curative and
preventive services in the priority areas of immunization,
primary health care, family planning, and communicable diseases
including sexually transmitted disease control and AIDS; to
mobilize domestic resources for non-salary operating expenses,
prior to nation-wide expansion, the essential drugs and cost
recovery programs would be tested.
The combination of policy reforms, institutional development, and the
action program would lay the groundwork for a future sector reform program.
Sector Policy Development
2.        Population Policy.  A National Population Policy Document would
be produced with the support of the Project. In order to carry out this
task, the Government has created a National Population Commission and
appointed a Technical Committee to prepare material for a series of
national and provincial workshops to build nation-wide consensus on policy
options. The Project would support these activities and would finance the
drafting and publication of the policy document as well as the preparation
of a medium-term action plan for the implementation of the population
policy objectives. The major objectives of this policy as identified by
the Commission would be to:
(a) establish equilibrium between population growth and the
development of the country's resources;
(b) regulate fertility by educating the population on responsible
parenthood and by promoting family planning and birth spacing;



70
Annex 3: Page 2 of 8
(c) accelerate reductions in mortality and morbidity rates;
(d) upgrade the quality and productivity of Cameroon's human
resources;
(e) promote and improve the role and status of women in the socio-
economic life of the country;
(f) improve the quality of life in rural areas and promote improved
urban planning;
(g) provide improved youth training; and
(h) intensify the fight against sterility.
This policy document would be promulgated by June 30, 1991. Special
training would be provided under the Project to Government staff in order
to build national capabilities to successfully implement the new policy.
3.        During the next four years, family planning services would be
extended to the provincial capitals and some divisional headquarters where
there is an unmet demand for family planning services. The Project would
finance activities for extending these services including the provision of
equipment and medical supplies, contraceptive commodities, office supplies,
staff training, logistic support, and supervision and evaluation
activities. The Project would also finance information, education, and
communication activities to sensitize the population on the availability,
uses, and benefits of family planning. Under this program, NGO activities
would also receive financial support during this initial phase of expanding
family planning services. Support to the family planning program would
supplement assistance the Government currently receives from UNEPA and
USAID. Project funds for this sub-component would amount to USS 0.2
million for policy development, USS 3.5 million for extending maternall
child health and family planning services to the provinces and USS 1.0
million for supporting NGO activities in family planning.
4.        Health Sector Policy and Operational Strategy.  The Project would
help the Government refine its health sector policy and operational
strategy. The major objectives of the new policy would be tos:
(a) give greater priority to primary health care than to high-cost,
hospital-based curative care;
(b) drastically reduce the prevalence of communicable disease and
infections among children and women of child bearing age;
(c)  give greater priority to maternal and child health end family
planning;
(d) protect the general population against major endemic diseases;



71
Annex 3s Page 3 of 8
(e)  develop community based services and promote increased co=Vunity
participation in health care;
(f) develop a decentralized and efficient referral system of health
care;
(g) define and adhere to new criteria for sector investments and
staff deployment which take due account of prevailing
epidemiological situations, regional disparities in existing
services, population distribution, and implications for operating
costs; and
(h) introduce an operational strategy which seeks to reduce the unit
cost of health care.
A National Commission for the Development of a Health Sector Policy would
receive financial support and technical assistance in organizing national
and provincial workshops on sector constraints and policy options, and in
the drafting of a policy statement which would be adopted by June 30, 1991.
The new health policy statement would outline quantitative objectives and
operational strategies for achieving these objectives as well as mechanisms
for coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating medium term programs for
implementing the new sectoral policies.
5.        Essential Drugs and Cost Recovery Policy.  To ensure the
availability of essential generic drugs and to reduce the unit cost of
basic services, the Government would develop essential drugs and cost
recovery policies and set up and test appropriate mechanisms for their
implementation. A central committee for essential drugs and MINSANTE's
provincial delegations would be jointly responsible for developing
mechanisms for implementing the Government's new cost recovery program.
During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that the
essential drugs and cost recovery systems would be introduced in all public
health facilities by December 31, 1992 once they have been developed and
tested and that proceeds from cost recovery would be retained at the level
of each facility to replenish essential drugs supplies in particular. The
Government's drug procurement agency ONAPHARM would in the meantime benefit
from reforms being carried out under the Structural Adjustment Program and
would assume the task of ensuring the continuous supply of essential drugs
to the health care system.
6.        Support under the Project for the development of the program
would include technical assistance for the design of the system and the
essential drugs for a sample of health facilities in which the system would
be tested and evaluated. The Project would also support activities to set
up and train members of local level management committees in stock
management and simple accounting and financial procedures necessary for
ensuring the success of the new programs.



72
Annex 3: Page 4 of 8
Institutional Strengthening
7.        Strategic Planning Capacity.  To improve MINSANTE's strategic
planning and investment programing capabilities, the Project would support
the development and strengthening of planning and programming procedures
within the Department of Studies, Planning and Statistics of the Ministry
of Health (MINSANTE). New programming methods would be instituted at the
central and provincial levels to improve and streamline the process of
project and program design and implementation.   Better coordination,
information, and statistical systems would be instituted to ensure better
integration of epidemiological, human resources, and financial data in the
sector. The new system would be computerized and staff provided
appropriate training to manage it. Staff training, technical assistance,
office equipment including micro computers, vehicles, and recurrent costs
for developing the new planning systems would be financed under the
Project.
8.        Resource Management Capability.  To improve resource allocation
and increase the efficiency of human and financial resources in the health
sector, the Project would support management reforms in MINSANTE's central
and provincial units in the areas of program budgeting and human resource
management and evaluation.
9.        A program-budgeting system would be instituted to ensure that
annual budgetary allocations are made on the basis of clearly defined
program targets. The development of the system during 1990-1992 would
involve the establishment of norms and targets for budgeting processes and
the training of personnel at the central and provincial levels. The new
system would enable MINSANTE to ensure that budgetary estimates incorporate
non-salary operating cost requirements and that existing imbalances in
resource allocation are corrected in favor of priority programs.
10.       Support would be provided to NINSANTE to improve financial
management and accounting as -n integral part of a management information
system. The improved system of program-budgeting should enable MINSANTE to
identify and justify the selective recruitment of specialists for key
positions in the health care system. The Project would support the
strengthening of the personnel service of the ministry to undertake a
personnel inventory, and to complete detailed job descriptions and staff
profiles which would ensure an equitable distribution of available
expertise nation-wide. Improved management support would also be provided
to the newly created maternal and child health services which have
responsibility for developing and expanding priority programs in maternal
and child health and family planning.
11.       The Project would finance technical assistance services for
designing and setting up the program budgeting system and introducing
improved human and financial management systems, staff training for
mastering the new systems, as wall as office equipment and supplies
including micro computers, vehicles, and the recurrent costs required for
developing the systems.



73
Annex 3: Page 5 of 8
Action Program
12.       Improvement of Existing Curative and Preventive Services.  The
Project would support the Government's program to revitalize primary health
care services and reverse the decline in the quality of care which has been
due to past budgetary cuts and inefficient management. The revitalization
of primary health care services programmed for 44 administrative divisions
during a four-year period would includes
(a)  curative care for local communicable and endemic diseases; and
(b)  preventive measures against:
(i)   major childhood communicable diseases,
(ii) diarrhea,
(iii) malaria,
(iv) tuberculosis,
(v)   leprosy,
(vi) intestinal parasites,
(vii) sexually transmitted diseases; and
(c)  special programs in areas affected by:
(i)   onchocerciasis,
(ii) guinea worm,
(iii) schistosomiasis, and
(iv) trypanosomiasis.
The primary health care revitalization program would involve the re-
equipment of health centers and first-level referral hospitals at the sub-
divisional level in which the quality of care deteriorated as non-salaried
operating funds dried up. The Project would finance equipment, medical
supplies, vehicles, staff training programs, consultant services, fuel,
travel costs, and recurrent costs generated by the developmental phase of
this program. To ensure adequate management and supervision of this
program, the Project would finance training activities for 45 Divisional
medical officers and 100 sub-divisional public health officials. Program
management training provided locally would involve 938 staff working in 568
health facilities. This sub-component would also include the financing of
an initial stock of essential drugs for the health facilities in which the
Government's new cost-recovery program would be tested and evaluated. The
primary health care rehabilitation program, which would complement
assistance the Government is already receiving from GTZ, USAID, Save the
Children, CARE, UNICEF and WHO, is estimated to cost US$ 11.0 million
equivalent.
13.       Support for MINSANTE's Information, Education, and Communication
(IEC) Program. To ensure that the population, especially in rural areas,
takes advantage of the primary health care services that are being up-
graded through external assistance, the Project would support an integrated
IEC program to create grater awareness of available services and their
uses, to promote early recourse to health care, and to promote preventive
personal and community health practices. The Project would finance
equipment, vehicles, training workshops, evaluation consultant services



74
Annex 3: Page 6 of 8
(3 months), supervision, and recurrent costs generated by the development
of the program. The program to be managed by MINSANTE's Health Education
Division would cost about USS 0.5 million equivalent.
14.       Strengthening the Family Planning Program.  The Project would
support the strengthening of provincial family planning services and the
extension of the high risk pregnancy management currently being implemented
in five provincial centers.   The strengthening of the family planning
program would involve 65 maternal and child health care centers and 49
maternities in ten provinces with the objectives of reducing maternal
mortality by 50 percent in ten years and achieving a contraceptive
prevalence rate of 25 percent during a similar period. A decentralized
training and supervision system would be developed and put in place. An
annual evaluation system and improved family planning statistical reporting
system would be supported through the Project. Support under the Project
would include equipment and supplies for ante- and post-natal care,
deliveries, family planning, nutrition education and surveillance, and for
health education. Total support to this program would amount to US$ 3.5
million equivalent and would be managed by MINSANTE's Maternal and Child
Health services.
15.       Support to NGO Activities in Family Planning.  To accelerate the
operational targets it has set for family planning (par&. 14) the
Government proposes to annually review NGO family planning activities with
a view to supporting such activities through the Project. The family
planning service of MINSANTE would be responsible for this periodic review,
which it would carry out in collaboration with provincial family planning
services and the NGO's concerned. The allocation of resources to each NGO
would be on an annual basis and would be determined by annual performance
and demonstrated ability to successfully implement family planning
activities. Support to NGO activities in family planning would be limited
to direct service delivery activities, supplies, IEC activities, and
training workshops and seminars for promoting safe motherhood and
regulating fertility. The total cost of support to NGO activities in this
area would amount to USS 1.0 equivalent over four years.
16.       Support to the Sexually Transmitted DiseaselAuto-Immunodeficiency
Syndrome (STD/AIDS) Program. Support to the Government's STD/AIDS program
would complement resources from other donors and would aim to achieve tbe
following objectives:
(a) sensitize the general population on the prevention of STD/AIDS;
(b) reduce AIDS transmission through blood transfusion;
(c) monitor the evolution of the epidemic in high risk groups;
(d) improve technical knowledge on local aspects of HIV infection;
and
(e) put in place an efficient coordinating mechanism and logistic
support for the STD/AIDS program.



75
Annex 3: Page 7 of 8
To achieve these goals, the Project would support educational campaigns in
the ten provinces, carry out training workshops for four laboratories per
province, furnish supplies for HIV rapid tests, undertake seroprevalence
surveys among vulnerable groups, experiment on institutional care for AIDS
patients, carry out applied research and KAP studies on STD/AIDS, and
strengthen the management and coordinating capabilities of the STD/AIDS
service of MINSANTE. This support is estimated at US$ 0.4 million
equivalent.
17.       Strenathening the Immunization Program.  The Project would
support efforts to improve immunization coverage among children and women
of child bearing age. This support would involve the training of
personnel, equipping of health facilities to successfully and regularly
carry out vaccinations, set up EPI supervision and evaluation systems, and
maintain a reliable and efficient cold chain. The Project would finance
refrigerators, vaccines, vehicles, training workshops, and recurrent costs
needed to attain the Government's objective of 85 percent immnnization
coverage for children under 20 months of age by 1994 and for setting up
1000 fully operational immunization centers nationwide by 1994. This
program, to be managed by MINSANTE's Department of Preventive and Community
Health, would be supported by the Project to the extent of USS 3.1 million
equivalent.
Costs
18.       The base costsl of the population module are estimated at US$ 4.6
million equivalent (US$ 4.7 million including contingencies and net of
taxes), distributed as follows (US$ thousands):
Policy         Action
Design         Program          Totals
Suporviaion/
Evaluation                e4                                 64
Training                   188             10              208
Technical Equip-
ment & Supplies             --            2,185           2,105
Administrativo
Equipment                   --              262             202
Operations &
Maintenance                  8              345             858
Support to Prov-
lncial Sorvicos                            899               99
Support to NOOs            _              1.000           1.000
Totals                     140            4,406           4,651
lBase costs include taxes and exclude contingencies.



76
Annex 3: Page 8 of 8
19.         The base costs of the health module are estimated at US$ 19.9
million (USS 19.0 million including contingencies, net of taxes)
distributed as follows (in US$ thousands)s
Prim.
Pollcy   Ineti.    Prog.      Immun   HelIth   Infor-       STD/   Module
Design   Stren.   BudAt.       ixt.      Care   mation      AIDS   Menga.   Total.
Per-
sonnel        --        --        1o        --       86        59        -o                951
Tech.
Asot.    6 S           192       114                           7         --        --      487
Train.      16        40B        --       162    8,151       IS8        17        -     4,102
Travel        --        --       106        --       --                  -         82       188
Mod.
Equip.        --        --        --    2,284    7,047         --       167        --    9,488
A Sup.
Intor-
mation        40        --        --        --       40        45       115        --       240
Admin.
Equip.        -        527       184       96       525        27        24         6    2,208
ape. A
;b1nt.         8       26         71        --       --        66        -      1.215    1.626
Totals       200    1,800        5a8    8,412   10,059        452       814    1,089   19,240
Note: Operations and maintenance for the action programs Included under Module Management.



77
Annex 4: Page 1 of 8
Annex 4
Education Program
PREPARATION OF A POLICY STATEMENT AND
MEDIUM TERM STRATEGY FOR THE EDUCATION-TRAINING SECTOR
1.        The principal objective of the work to be undertaken is to
propose fundamental improvements in the education system to permits
(a) maintaining the quantitative achievements in primary
education;
(b) improving the quality of education at all levels;
(c) improving the relevance of the education and training systems to
the country's economic and social development needs.
2.        The financial constraints of the Government on the one hand, and
the need to expand the education system to respond to demographic growth on
the other hand, require a concentration of available resources in areas of
priority. In this context, the Government has decided to reassess those
priorities, redefine its broad policies in the education sector, and to
prepare a medium-term implementation strategy. To this end, it has decided
to create an interministerial task force, the 'Groupe de Pilotage," charged
with preparing a Statement of Policy for the Education Sector and the
medium-term strategy, for approval by the Council of Ministers and its
subsequent adoption by the Government. The "Groupe de Pilotage, would also
be responsible for the coordination and follow-up of the implementation of
the sectoral policy and the strategy.
3.        The 'Groupe de Pilotage" would be chaired by the Minister of
National Education (MINEDUC). Its Vice-Presidency would be assured by the
Minister of Higher Education, Information and Scieutific Research
(MISERES). It would be composed of permanent and ad-hoc members.
Permanent members would be: a representative, each, of the Presidency, the
Ministry of Plan, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Labor; the
three Inspector Generals, the Director of Technical Education and
Vocational Training, the Director of Primary and Maternal Education, and
the Chief of the Division of Planning of MINEDUC; the Director of Higher
Education and the Director of Scholarships and University Planning of
MISERES; the Vice-Rector and the Director of Academic Affairs and Planning
of the University of Yaounde. Ad-hoc members would include the Ministries
of Social Affairs and the Condition of Women (MINASCOF), Health (MINSANTE),
Agriculture (MINAGRI), and Public Administration (Fonction Publique). An
immediate task of the 'Groupe de Pilotage* would be to prepare an Education
Sector Policy Statement, in which broad policy objectives, priorities and
principal instrument for its execution would be defined. Concurrent with
this effort, a medium term education sector strategy containing specific
steps to implement the policy, including interim targets, programs, budgets
and an action plan describing the key reform measures required to implement
the strategy would be prepared. To assist the "Groupe de Pilotage" in the



78
Annex 4: Page 2 of 8
preparation of the medium term strategy and the action %Ian, the Groupe
would call on the creation of six Study Groups. The Study Groups would
also be ad-hoc members of the "Groupe de Pilotage" and would serve
informally as Strategic Advisors to the Ministers of their respective
Ministries. External consultants would be contracted by MINEDUC to assist
the Study Groups in the preparation of the strategy and action plan. The
group of consultants would be headed by an economist, and would include
specialists in each of the fields of review, which would work with each of
the study groups to be created. The coordination of the work of the
consultants in its technical context would be managed by the Ministry of
Plan in its capacity of Chairman of the Study Group responsible for
preparing the Diagnostic and the Strategy; while the coordination of the
administrative aspects would be managed by the Cellule d'Animation et de
Suivi du 'Groupe de Pilotage. To carry out the work detailed below, the
following Study Groups would be created.
4.        The Study Group on the Costs and Financing of Primary and
Secondary Education would be chaired by the Chief of the Division of
Planning and Orientation of MINEDUC. Its members would include the
Directors of Technical Education, Primary and Maternal Education, Secondary
Education, Education Projects, and Administration of MINEDUC; the Director
of Planning of MINPAT; and the Director of the Budget of MINFI.
5.        The Study Group on the Costs and Financing of Higher Education
would be chaired by the Director of Scholarships and University Planning
and composed of the Director of Higher Education of NESIRES, Director of
Academic Affairs and Planning of the University of Yaounde, the Director of
Planning of MINPAT and the Director of the Budget of the Ministry of
Finance.
6.        Specific issues on the quality of primary and secondary general
education would be handled by a Study Group on Primary and Secondary
Education. The group would be chaired by the Director of Primary and
Maternal Education, and composed of the Directors of Secondary General
Education and the Director of Planning of the Ministry of National
Education. The Study Group would take into consideration the work to be
carried out separately on the primary education curriculum and the quality
of primary school teachers as the initial step towards the implementation
of an in-service teacher training program.
7.        The Study Group on the Development of the Technical Education and
Vocational Training Strategy would be chaired by the Director of Technical
Education and Professional Training of MINEDUC and composed of the Vice
Rector of the University, the Director of Higher Education of MESIRES, the
Chief of the Division of Planning of MINEDUC, the Director of bmployment of
the Ministry of Labor (MTPS), and a representative of CENAFOP. This group
would also be able to call upon representatives of private sector
enterprises, the University and other higher education learning centers, as
needed.
8.        The Study Group on Higher Education would be chaired by the
Secretary General of MESIRES and composed of the Vice Rector of the



79
Annex 4: Page 3 of 8
University of Yaounde, the Director of Higher Education of MESIRES, the
Director of ENSET, the Director of CNE, and the Director of Academic
Affairs and Planning of MESIRES. The Group would call on the Directors of
other higher learning institutions ("Ecole Polytechnique" and "Grandes
Ecoles'). This Study Group would be able to call on the managers of each
faculty of the University, as necessary.
9.        A Sixth Study Group, chaired by the Director of Plan of MINPAT
and composed of the Chief of the Division of Planning of MINEDUC, the
Director of Scholarships and Planning of MESIRES, and the Director of
Academic Affairs and Planning of the University would utilize the work
carried out by the other groups to prepare a diagnosis of the sector's
systemic problems. In that context, the Study Group would call upon the
assistance of all other study groups, as necessary. The work would be
reviewed in detail by the 'Groupe Elargi de R4flexion", and, on the basis
of a comprehensive review of that work, the same Study Group would proceed
with the preparation of proposals for the definition of sectoral
priorities, the analysis of policy options for sectoral reform, and the
preparation of a document defining proposals for a long-term strategy and
medium-term action plan for reform for review by the "Groupe Elargi de
R4flexion".
9.        The current institutional arrangements for the management of the
education system require that each ministry be viewed as a separate entity.
Accordingly, separate terms of reference would be provided for the Ministry
of National Education and for the Ministry of Higher Educatiorn and
Research. The Ministry of Labor would participate, together with the
Ministry of National Education, in the development of the technical
education and vocational training strategy. However, the
institutionalization of the above Study Groups would enable the review of
issues common to these ministries in a comprehensive manner. In this
context, it is envisaged that the officials of each ministry that are
members of a specific Study Group would be responsible for the carrying out
of the part of the work which concerns their ministry. However, the Study
Groups would meet as necessary to plan, review, coordinate and produce a
synthesis of the work.
METHODOLOGY
Ministry of National Education
10.       More specifically, the reviews would dwell on the following
areas:
A.   The Costs of the National Education System
i. The evolution of the budget 1985-1989, including
expenditures on personnel, infrastructure maintenance,
teaching materials and textbooks, teacher training,
mobilization of school supervisors, as well as
expenditure of the Central and Provincial offices.



80
Annex 4s Page 4 of 8
Private Sector participation during the same period,
including NGOs, and community-financed schools.
ii. The evolution of student enrollment during the
same period, at each level: primary, secondary general,
secondary technical, and vocational. Regional and
provincial distribution by level.
iii. The rate of promotion in primary education of last
year students and the application of administrative
procedures guiding passing to the lower cycle of
secondary general and technical school.
iv. The rate of promotion of last year general and
technical higher secondary students. Application of
administrative procedures guiding acceptance to the
University or other higher education institutions.
v. Repetition rates at each level, and exploration of
possible causes.
vi. Drop-out rates at each level of the system.
vii. The teacher situation: number, distribution by
level and region, urban vs. rural. Particular
attention should be paid to the situation of primary
school teachers in rural areas: qualified and non-
qualified teachers, paid by the Government budget, or
by the communities.
viii. The incidence of quality education on costs.
ix. Analysis of efficiency of the system.
x. Costs of education at each level, and costs of maintaining
present trends.
B.   Development of a Technical Education and Vocational TraininR
Strategy
i. Analysis of the demand for technical and vocational
training.
ii. Evaluation of the system/relationship between
education and economic activity (modern sector and
informal sector).
iii. Specific problems of existing technical education
programs and of new programs being implemented,
particularly in respect to their responsiveness to the
needs of the labor market.



81
Annex 4s Page 5 of 8
iv. CENAPOP programs, and other adult training
centers.
v.   Evaluation of labor needs taking into account the
macro-economic framework adopted by the Government in
its Structural Adjustment Program.
C.   Primary and Secondary Education
i. Primary Education Student Performances the testing
system, availability of textbooks, the quality of
teachers, and other problems which bear on student
performance.
ii. Access to primar" education and performance by
female students.
iii. General Education Student Performance: sciences
and mathematics levels. The system applied for access
to the University.
D.   Diagnosis
i. The structure of the system by level, the
relationship between the public and private school
system, and the beneficiaries of the system.
ii. The management of the system. Definition of
principal functions of the Ministry of National
Education, distribution of human resources, level of
decentralization.
iii.   The quality of education: relative priority of
qualitative vs. quantitative objectives. Availability
of resources for programs or initiatives to improve
quality.
iv. The appropriateness of the education system and
professional training to respond to economic
development objectives. The evaluation of the
secondary technical and vocational education, including
existing programs and/or programs to be implemented.
The relationship with higher education in terms of the
influence of policies at lower levels on both the
quality of higher education and the pressure to expand
the latter.
v. The financial constraints, including analysis of
the budget, and possibilities for internal redeployment
of resources, as well as mobilization of additional
resources through greater private sector and



82
Annex 4: Page 6 of 8
beneficiary participation in the financing of the
education system.
E.   Definition if Priorities and analysis of Options for the
National Education System Reform
i. Definition of priorities to respond to major
national objectives.
ii. Analysis of policy options for sectoral reform,
including their impact and financial incidence.
iii. A proposal for a long-term Strategy and medium-term Action
Plan for the National Education System would be prepared and
integrated into the overall strategy for the sector in a manner
that would ensure consistency and internal coherence.
Ministry of Higher Education and Research
11.       The reviews would concern the following:
A.   Costs of Higher Education
i. The evolution of the current budget from 1985 to
1989. Distribution of expenditure of the Ministry of
Higher Education and Research at the central and
regional levels, Government transfers to the University
and Grandes Ecoles, scholarships.
ii. Number, levels and distribution of higher level
professors. Levels of salaries and comparison with
secondary and primary school teachers.
iii. The evolution of student demand for higher
education during the period 1985-89, distribution at
University, ENSET and other higher learning
institutions. Distribution by type of training.
iv. The scholarship policies and distribution of
scholarships during the period 1985-89. Procedures
governing qualification, repetition, and loss of
scholarship grants.
v. Repetition rates, distribution by type of training,
and institution.
vi. The current situation of graduates. Do they
remain unemployed? Distribution by type of training
obtained.
vii. The incidence of the quality of that education
in overall costs.



83
Annex 4: Page 7 of 8
viii. Costs of higher education. Financial
consequences of maintaining present policies.
B.   Diagnosis
i. Analysis of the evolution of the demand for higher
education.
ii. The structure of the system: the relative priority
given to literary, legal and economic training and
comparison with other training (scientific, financial,
etc.). Duplication of efforts: same training offered
by the University and other higher learning
institutions.
iii. The effects of the present scholarship policy.
iv. The quality of higher education. Differences among
institutions.
v. The relevance of training provided by higher
learning institutions to the country's future economic
developusent needs.
vi. The financial constraints.
C.  Definition of Priorities and Analysis of Policy Options for the
Reform of the Higher Education System
i. the priorities would be defined to correct the
system's major deficiencies taking into account
Government's policy objectives and limited financial
resources.
ii. The analysis of policy options would include a
review of their impact on the system and of the
financial implications.
iii. A proposal for a long-term Strategy and medium-
term Action Plan for higher education would be prepared
and integrated into the overall strategy for the sector
in a manner that would ensure consistency and internal
coherence.



84
Annex 4t Pahe 8 of 8
COSTS
I.         The education module is expected to cost US$ 8.8 million
equivalent (including contingencies, net of taxes) as follows
(USS thousands):
Action                Module
Prograrm            Manoent                   Total
Travrel                             --                    MB-SO-
School Desks                      2,250                                        2,250
Teaching Materials                S,425                                        5,425
Equipesat, Operations A             --                     17                     17
Maintenance
Pertonnel                           --                  1.041                  1,041
Totals                            7,676                 1,155                  0,880



85
Annex 5: Page 1 of S
Annex 5
organization and Operation of
National Employment Fund
1.        The FNE is organized as a separate legal entity, reporting to the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MTPS). It will be governed by a
Board of Directors, composed of 12 members representing both the public
sector and the private sector as follows:
a)   A president named by decree;
b)   A representative of the Presidency;
c)   One representative each from the following ministries: (i)
Planning and Regional Development (MINPAT), (ii) Labor and Social
Security (MTPS), (iii) Industrial and Business Development
(MINDIC), and (iv) Finance (MINFIN);
d)   One representative of the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and
Mines;
e)   Three representatives of the following employers' organizations:
(i) the Union of Cameroon Contractors (ii) the Interprofessional
Group of Cameroon and (iii) the Professional Banking Association;
and
f)   Two representatives of the Union of Cameroonian Workers.
2.        Board of Directors' meetings would be held in accordance with the
bylaws, with each member having one vote. The Board of Directors would
meet at least twice a year and when it is in the FNE's interest to do so,
in order to:
a)   set the goals and approve FNE activities and programs;
b)   appoint the outside auditors and approve the annual audited
financial statements;
c)   approve the operating and investment budget;
d)   set general and financial policies;
e)   make decisions about the organization and management of the FNE;
f)   review and approve annual reports of FNE activities; and



86
Annex 5. Page 2 of 5
Management
3.        An organization chart of the FNE is presented in Figure 1.
Board of Directore
GOftice of the
Ad Hoc Cow ltt..a    Director Ceneral T chnical Acltonce|
Int rnal gudat and
Prosepr  Evalustion
a imepleent nd  hmoFar'insn ;nd
T)crdin Assisting Aaagg  a onit n  F    acitritieo
D)vison g  s a                              Dlvosion
miitie,epcilyth   TS
Interv ntlon                 i   (    n
Ungts    nites             Tratins;n
Enterprs         Unit
Emplot ent
Unit
Figur* es Organgzation Chart of tpee National Employment Fu
4.        Day-to-day  management is provided by a       Director General chosen
for his managerial qualifications and skills in the private sector. The
General Mana( er An     responsible, among other things, forf
a)   implementing the Board's decisions;
b) coordinating, managing, sand monitoring FNE activities;
c) acting as a liaison with the various partners in the MNE
d) coordinating PN activity with policies determined by the
ministries, especially the MTPS;
e)   establishing relationships with donors interested in assisting
the FNE;
f)   preparing activity reports for the Board;
g)   approving the opening, the redeployment, or the closing of
Decentralized Intervention Units (see Annex 6);
b) ordfering expenditures for FNE operations; and
i)   keeping the Board informed of pertinant issues.
S.        The Director General will periodically evaluate the employment
situation based on reports from the Employment and Training Assistance
Service (see Annex 6). He may also convene meetings of ad hoc committees.



87
Annex 5: Page 3 of 5
comprised mainly of business leaders, to consult with them on trends and
needs in the job market.
6.        For two years, an internationally recruited advisor would assist
the Director General on all aspects of his duties. The expert would be an
economist specializing in employment, having extensive experience with
multisectoral organizations and funding institutions.
7.        The FNE's operations would be conducted by four divisionst
a)   the Employment and Training Assistance Division;
b)   the Program Division;
c)   the Internal Audit and Program Evaluation Division; and
d)   the Finance and Administration Division.
8.        Employment and Training Assistance Division (DAIR).  This service
is described separately in Annex 6.
9.        Program Division (DP).  This Division would be responsible fort
a)   designing, supervising, and monitoring all programs implemented
within the FNE;
b)   discusaing the programs with other agencies which may
participate in their implementation and preparing contractual
agreements with such specialized institutions; and
c)  monitoring financial commitments by program, within the l1.Sts of
budget appropriations and in coordination with the Finance and
Administration Division (which would be responsible for
mobilizing financial resources).
10.       The Program Division would be comprised of program management
units. In the first stage, two units would be set up: the Micro-Enterprise
and Self-Employment Creation Unit, and the Training Unit.
11.       The Micro-Enterprise and Self-Employment Creation Unit would
delegate to specialized institutions responsibility for implementing
services to applicants to the micro-enterprise and self-employment creation
programs, and would have the tasks of: (i) identifying the institutions or
NGOs that are competent in the fields of training, assistance, and project
funding, and obtaining service proposals from such institutions or NGOs;
(ii) analyzing these proposals and signing service-delivery and financing
agreements with the institutions that are selected; and (iii) preparing and
negotiating loan refinancing agreements with approved financial
institutions.
12.       For job applicants, the Training Unit would be responsible for:
(i) promoting job-training sessions in businesses; (ii) processing the
applications forwarded by the DAIR for training applicants in institutions,
and directing those applicants to the appropriate training centers; and
(iii) promoting the organization of apprenticeships by providing financial
support to trainers. The unit would also: (i) maintain a register of
businesses that might participate in the program; (ii) disseminate to these



88
Annex 5: Page 4 of 5
businesses information about the benefits of the program and admissions
requirements; and (iii) record requests from businesses and enter into job
training contracts with them.
13.       In some cases, applicants would be directly referred to
institutions approved by the FNE. Othei categories of beneficiaries, for
example, formal training applicants, must be grouped prior to training. In
such cases, the Program Division would subcontract this task, and then put
the applicants in contact with the selected institutions, with which they
would enter into training contracts. In selecting training institutions,
the FNE would be advised by specialized agencies, such as CENAFOP, for
technical training, and ESSEC, for management training.
14.       At the end of the year, the Program Division would participate
with the Internal Audit and Program Evaluation Division in an ex-post
evaluation of projects implemented, and of the quality of training and
assistance programs.
15.       Internal Audit and Proaram Evaluation Division.  This Division's
purpose would be to:
a)   prepare the program and operating budgets;
b)   prepare the financial standards for program design and
implementation;
c)   suggest parameters for financial packages to be allocated to the
programs;
d)   audit all financial transactions carried out by the FNE,
especially contracts with the agencies implementing programs; and
e)   at the end of the year, make an ex-post evaluation of the
results and performance of each program, and compare the
results achieved with the goals that were set.
16.       After these analyses have been made, the division would help the
Director General to incorporate its findings and recommendations in the
annual report to be submitted for Board approval.
17.       Finance and Administration Division (DFA).  This Division would
be responsible for:
a)   mobilizing resources from the various FNE partners and funding
agencies; and
b)   cash management and FNE administration.
18.       The Finance and Administration Division's main responsibility
would be to administer the FNE's financial resources. These resources
would come from Government contributions, donors, and eventually the
private sector.
19.       The Finance and Administration Division would manage the FNE on a
daily basis. In this respect, its responsibilities would be tot



89
Annex 5 Page 5 of 5
a)   post cash and bookkeeping transactions made for each FuE
program;
b)   pay the units' operating expenses;
c)   assist the Interual Audit and Program Evaluation Division to
prepare the program and administrative budgets;
d)   prepare the FNE's year-end financial statements, which would be
subject to an independent audit; and
e)   help the Director General prepare the annual report to be
submitted for Board approval.
Operating Procedures
20.       The PNE would establish simple and effective operating procedures
that are consistent with its structure and responsibilities. These
procedures would enable it to carry out internal audits and duly monitor
program financing, including the enforcement of repayment terms for funds
that have been on-lent.
Administrative Costs
21.       The administrative (base) costs of the PNE come to USS 4.5
million as follows (US$ thousands):
Reinsertion
Adhnm-   Assiotnce
istration   Diviseon   TOTAL
Consultant Srvices              712       382      1,044
Recruited Perconnol             779      1,016     1,796
Training                        816       800       016
Equipment and Suppiles          280       287       547
Operetlng Expenditures          806       155       460
Fuel                             16        1S        29
TOTAL                         2,407      2,084     4,491



90
Annex 6: Page 1 of 4
Annex 6
Employment and Training Assistance Division
Objectives
1.        The Employment and Training Assistance Division (DAIR) of the
National Employment Fund (FNE) is designed to assist unemployed young
graduates or laid-off public sector employees to insert or reinsert
themselves into the private sector, as either employees or entrepreneurs.
It will include an information unit to help these people, most of whom are
not familiar with the private sector, to find their way among training and
employment opportunities. The DAIR would respond to the following
objectives:
a)   collection, management, and circulation of information on
employment support programs, including those financed by the FNE,
and on corresponding job and business opportunities;
b)   reception and orientation of persons seeking jobs or retraining
by providing information about these programs.
2.        The first objective would be achieved by collecting data on the
operation and performance of the labor market and on available training or
retraining activities and programs. The information would be stored in a
computerized data base for easy accessibility and updating. This system
would provide the basic information for the orientation of those seeking
employment in private activities.
3.        The second objective would be achieved bys (i) receiving
prospective employees or entrepreneurs and informing them of appropriate
opportunities for jobs or small businesses, and of relevant training and
assistance programs to facilitate their entry into the private sector; and
(ii) interviewing and orienting these applicants toward the appropriate
programs.
Operation of the DAIR
4.        The DAIR would perform three main functions: (i) information
collection and updating; (ii) information management and circulation; and
(iii) reception and orientation of applicants to appropriate training or
employment programs.
5.        Information Collection and Updating.  Information issued by the
FNE Program Division and b7 various external sources would be
systematically and regularly entered into the information system's
database. The information stored would primarily consist of:
a)   Statistical information on labor and employment, collected from:
(i) the labor and employment markets, such ab: employment and
unemployment figures for the formal and informal sectors,
prevailing wages and salaries by category of occupation, and



91
Annex 6: Page 2 of 4
socio-economic indicators; and (ii) the FWE itself, on the
opportunities arising from the programs it supports.
b)   Data from job opportunity surveys to be conducted by the DAIR or
others identifying promising economic channels and opportunities
for jobs or micro-enterprise development; and donor funded
projects to be implemented by individuals or associates.
c)   Information on labor regulations and on investment and tax codes
affecting employment and the creation of micro-enterprises.
d} Consolidated information on FEE programs: (i) available
vocational training courses at training institutes; (ii)
apprenticeship and on-the-job training opportunities; and (iii)
available assistance for the establishment of small businesses or
self-employment.
6.        Information Management and Circulation.  The date stored in the
information system would be processed and circulated for the use of all FNE
units, either on line at the central level or on printed lists to be
distributed to the local units. The DAIR would therefore: (i) process
information stored in the data base; (ii) prepare information lists and
transmit them to the local units; (iii) prepare informative brochures to be
distributed in selected places; and (iv) organize relations with the public
information media.
7.        Applicants' Reception and Orientation.  The DAIR would offer
individual reception and information services to the persons coming to the
FNE for assistance. These services would consist of: (i) verifying the
potential applicant's suitability for participating in FNE activities (as
the first level of the selection process): (ii) informing qualified
applicants about the available FNE programs and listed employment
opportunities; and (iii) if the applicant desires creating an application
file (on computer) and arranging an appointment with a career adviser. The
career adviser would interview each qualified applicant and determine with
him the most appropriate employment or training programs according to his
interests; professional qualifications and financial means; and would
subsequently orient him to available programs.
Organization and Personnel of the DAIR.
8.        The DAIR would be decentralized for flexibility and quick
response to information needs (job seekers outside the capital cannot be
expected to travel to Yaounde). Therefore, the DAIR would consist of (i)
the DAIR head agency located at the FNE headquarters in Yaounde; and (ii)
local agencies, called decentralized intervention units. The head agency
at the central level would be responsible for information collection and
management for the country as a whole, and for the reception and
orientation of applicants from the Yaounde area. Decentralized
intervention units would be responsible for reception and orientation
outside of the Yaounde area. These would be created only where and as long
as needed for direct intervention in the most flexible and 'demand driven,



92
Annex 6: Page 3 of 4
way in areas where critical employment problems arise (such as in
rehabilitated public enterprises). Initially decentralized intervention
units would be located in Bamenda, Garoua and Douala. The latter unit
would be permanent, since employment problems are likely to be as acute in
Douala as in Yaoundt. Mobile units might also be created at the central
level, to move to specific sites for short periods of time. Each
decentralized unit would coordinate closely with the central level.
9.        The DAIR would be headed by an informAtion manager responsible
for the DAIR*s overall performance, and in particular for: (i) supervising
the collection of information through: permanent links with the PNE program
division and the decentralized intervention units for data collection; and
periodic contact with external sources (the Government, the commission for
public enterprise rehabilitation, universities, private sector operators,
donors, and others); (ii) supervising the circulation of information,
including relations with the press; (iii) monitoring of the advisors'
services to job seekers; (iv) consulting with the FNE Director-General on
the creation and closing of decentralized intervention units in accordance
with the employment situation in various parts of the country; and (v)
supervising the organization and activities of the decentralized
intervention units. Each decentralized unit would be headed by a human
resource specialist hired as information manager/career adviser. The DAIR
manager would report to the FNE Director-General on all DAIR activities,
including the preparation of the annual report, and discuss with him the
hiring of DAIR personnel.
10.       External consulting services would be contracted to advise on the
establishment of the information system. All staff would be hired under
fixed term contracts, renewable when necessary. Local staff would be hired
for periods not exceeding the duration of the decentralized intervention
uni. itself (with extension possibilities). The initial DAIR personnel
would consist, at the central level, of two high level statisticians and
marketing specialists, one of them the information manager of the DAIR; a
micro-computer specialist; two reception clerks and two human resource
specialists working as career advisors. The number of advisors would be
increased if required by the demand for their services. In each
decentralized unit, there would be one or two reception clerks and a career
adviser. The Douala unit would be larger, probably equivalent to two
normal decentralized units.
Long Term Outlook.
11.       In principle, the DAIR would function only during the four-year
SDA project execution period. However, if there continued to be demand for
the DAIR' services after the completion of the SDA Project, the DAIR could
be converted into a private structure.   At that time, an evaluation of the
DAIR's overall performance would assess its viability in the private sector
within the Cameroonian economic etLvironment; its ability to meet the need
for its activities; and its appropriate structure as a private entity.



93
Annex 6s Page 4 of 4
DAIR implementation and costing.
12.       In order to effectively complement the public enterprise
rehabilitation program, the DAIR should become operational as soon as
possible. The initial investment cost for the DAIR organization and
implementation is estimated to be USS 0.5 million equivalent including
consulting services to set up the information system and to organize and
implement the DAIR's computerized management procedures (US$ 0.2 million).
13.       The DAIR's operating costs would be about USS 0.5 million per
year when it becomes fully operational. The total operating costs over the
proposed 4 year period would be about US$ 1.6 million.



94
Annex 7: Page 1 of 14
Annex 7
Programs of the National
Employment Fund
I.        On-the-Job Training Program
1.        Introduction.  This program would make it possible for target
groups of unemployed workers (redundant workers from the public,
parastatal, and private sectors, as well as young graduates), to enter or
re-enter the job market through training within a firm or small enterprise.
2.        In the current economic context in Cameroon, it is essential to
better adapt vocational training to employers' needs. Cameroonian
businesses in the modern sector that succeed in adjusting to the new
competitive environment and offer jobs will adopt competitive technologies
for production. They will need more highly-skilled workers than in the
past.  A high percentage of unemployed workers during the transitional
adjustment period will already have skills but will urgently need to be
either retrained or undergo training for new duties. However, the
country's vocational training institutions currently provide primarily
general training that often does not meet firms' immediate needs. On-the-
job training in businesses would make it easier for job-seekers to find
work and would ensure that the training offered is appropriate for
employers' needs.
3.        Apprenticeship in Cameroon exists primarily in the informal or
unstructured sector, whether of the traditional type (such as woodworking,
basket making, forging, ceramics, leather), or the modern type, such as the
production of goods and services in parallel and/or in contact with the
formal sector.
4.        The informal sector includes activities typically characterized
by a small number of employees; low consumption of capital, techniques that
are not highly developed; family and basic or nonexistent management; a
massive presence of independent workers, apprentices and family helpers;
and finally, workers with low incomes. The informal sector is developing
around entrepreneurs that have a technical mastery suited to the needs of
the domestic market. In Cameroon, this sector is largely urban and is
concentrated in the cities of Douala, Yaounde, and in some lesser urban
centers such as Limbe, Bafoussam, Edea, Bamenda, Ngaound6rd, Garoua, and
Maroua.
5.        The informal sector's ability to provide jobs is significant.
The initial stage of employment in the informal sector is frequently
apprenticeship. Although if this stage frequently goes hand-in-hand with
underemployment, low income, or low productivity, apprenticeships do
generate new skills and create possiblities for productive labor. The
apprentices may later use their skills in productive positions in either
the formal or informal sector.



95
Annex 7s Page 2 of 14
6.        Most entrepreneurs pay their apprentices, but in exchange, the
apprentices pay for their apprenticeship. The payments entrepreneurs
receive for training they provide amount to about one-third of the wage
payments made to apprentices. Such reciprocal payments are made both in
cash and consumables.
7.        Objectives.  The main objective of this program is to make it
possible for individua:.s who lose their job under the Structural Adjustment
Program, and for other groups of the labor force affected by the current
economic crisis in Cameroon, to find jobs, by eliminating one obstacle to
hiring. By lowering the cost of training and initial adaptation incurred
by employers, this progrnm would encourage employers to hire new personnel,
thereby creating jobs.
8.        Selection Criteria.  On-the-job training in the formal sector
would serve two categories of beneficiaries: applicants for on-the-job
training, and private businesses which need trained employees. Selection
criteria for both categories follow Potential trainees must:
a) have identified a firm that is prepared to hire them, subject to
preliminary training within the firm (applic¶nts may receive
assistance in identifying such firms from the DAIR);
b) be able to carry out the tasks iL.herent in the job that the firm
offers them, as demonstrated by a conditional hiring letter from
their future employer;
c)   have been unemployed for at least six months;
d)   have not already taken part in another FNE Job-training program;
e)   have not been employed during the previous two years by the firm
that would give them the on-the-job training;
f)   agree to take the on-the-job training in accordance with the
methods and procedures put into effect by the firm that would
train them;
g) undertake to accept a job with the firm that trains them at the
close of the training period if the firm offers them one; and
h)   if graduates, have obtained their degree at least one year
previously.
Employers in the formal sector must:
a)   express their interest in hiring an unemployed worker who trains
on-the-job and continuing to employ that person at lea t until
the end of the training period;



96
Annex 7: Page 3 of 14
b)   give trainees priority in employment at the close of the training
period if positions are available (assuming satisfactory
completion of the training);
c)   not offer this on-the-job training program, financed by the PNE,
to their current employees, or to those who were in their
employment over the previous two years;
d)   have over 20 permanent employees;
e)   identify the type of on-the-job training they intend to give;
f) fully remunerate the trainees in accordance with the conditions
they set forth in the terms of the subsidy agreement they would
sign with the FNE; and
g)   sponsor not more than 10 percent of their total number of
permanent employees.
To be eligible for apprenticeship, applicants would have to meet the
following criteria:
a)   apprentices must be between 18 and 35 years old;
b)   they must not be immediately related to the trainer or
entrepreneur (as father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter,
spouse);
c)   they must be unemployed when they apply for the apprenticeship;
d)   they must undertake to take the entire apprenticeship course to
be provided to them;
e)   they must not have had any other apprenticeship training funded
by the PNE;
f)   they may have undergraduate degrees or secondary general or
technical diplomas (BEPC, CAP), or they may have left school
(dropouts);
g)   apprentices may assume part of any costs for apprenticeship.
Entrepreneurs-tradesmen would meet these criteria:
a)   Entrepreneurs-tradesmen must have owned property for at least
three years;
b)   they must demonstrate, through their experience or skills, the
ability to train apprentices;
c)   they must describe the duration and contents of the
apprenticeship training they propose to provide;



97
Annex 7: Page 4 of 14
d)   they must not be immediately related to the trainee (as father,
mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, spouse);
e)   they must undertake not to displace any existing employee to make
room for a new apprentice they take on;
f)   they must undertake to give priority to the trainee, if he
demonstrates the required skills, in filling any paid position
requiring the type of skills the trainee develops;
g)   they must pay the trainee the full payment to which he is
entttled;
h)   they must have no more than 20 employees or trainees in their
employ.
9.        Procedures.  The existence of the on-the-job trairing program
would be publicized among employers, and among job-seekers received by the
DAIR.
10.       The FNE would fund on-the-job training by paying to the
businesses a portion of the wages paid to the participants. This amount
would offset part of the cost of training new employees. This financial
contribution from the FNE would equal 18 weeks wages (but would not exceed
a rate of CPAF 30,000 per week in the formal sector and CFAF 15,000 per
week in the informal sector), and would be paid to the business in four
equal installments over one year, provided that the trainee remains on the
job. A higher level of financial support, for example, 50 percent of the
wage for the first year, would be granted in exchange for a commitment by
the employer to hire the trainee or apprentice at the close of the training
period.
11.       To become operational, and for the FNE to pay a portion of the
on-the-job training costs in the business, a contract would be signed by
the three parties: the employer, the unemployed worker, and the FNE. This
contract would stipulate the terms of service of the trainee and the FNE's
financial contribution, and would commit the parties to provide basic
information--at the time of the ex-post evaluation--about how the job
training program had operated.
12.       Ex-post Evaluation.  The FNE would ensure that an ex-post
evaluation procedure is set up to determine the effectiveness and the
efficiency of the job-training program. More specifically, based on a
sample survey of trainees and beneficiary businesses, the program audit and
evaluation unit would, among other things, learn:
a)   what has become of the persons who would have gone through the
program: are they employed by the business that trained them, are
they unemployed, did they have access to another job, and if so,
was the job-training program useful for them in finding the other
job?;



98
Annex 7: Page 5 of 14
b)   what was the actual financial contribution of the beneficiaries?;
c)  whether the admission criteria set up at the time the program
started were observed, and if not, why not, and the percentsge of
"leaks' from the program and their causes;
d)   the quality and effectiveness of channels for passing on
information about the program's existence;
e)   the training methods used by the firms, the on-the-job training
categories provided by the businesses: were techniques used that
could be usefully employed in formal training programs provided
by training institutions?;
f)   the sectors which, by using the program, demonstrate a capability
of creating jobs;
g)   how frequently businesses used the program; and
h)   what program design aspects should be changed to make the program
more efficient and effective.
II.       Formal Training Proaram
13.       Introduction.  Many job-seekers who emerge during the period of
structural adjustment will not be able to directly find jobs, and will have
to be more thoroughly retrained than is possible through on-the-job
training or apprenticeship. These applicants would be channeled to the
formal training institutions. Training capability in Cameroon, in public,
private or NGO facilities is not yet well known. Under these
circumstances, given the urgency of the situation and the lack of awareness
about the national network of institutions, a method must be implemented to
respond in a flexible fashion to the retraining needs that would arise for
unemployed workers during the peirod of adjustment.
14.       Objectives.  The main objective of the FNE's formal vocational
training program would be to enable job-seekers to quickly find jobs. This
program would support vocational training efforts in two possible ways.
First, it would contribute to funding job-seekers who wish to acquire
additional and sufficient vocational training. This financial contribution
would be calculated on the basis of the direct cost of the training. It
would be paid directly to the training institutions for trainees referred
by the FNE. The FNE9s contribution would supplement the payment made by
the trainee. Second, the program would fund development and strengthening
of a few vocational training institutions, notably COIC and the vocational
training centers of MTPS, to consolidate and expand their capabilities in
delivering services to populations targeted by the FNE. Both parts of the
program would be pursued simultaneously.
15.       Selection Criteria.  Under the first part of the program,
Trainees would be selected in accordance with the following criteria:



99
Annex 7: Page 6 of 14
a)   they must have been unemployed for at least nine months;
b)   they must have come to the DAIR and filled out an application;
c)   they must have had an orientation interview with the unit and
must have expressed their need for training;
d)   they must agree to complete the training they would receive at
the selected institution;
e)   they must agree to pay, in part, for the training;
f)   they must agree to look for a job, even during the training
period; and
g)   they must undertake to provide information to the FNE about their
training and their status after this period during the ex-post
program-evaluation phase.
The selection criteria for training institutions would be:
a)   they must have recognized expertise in their field for the
training they propose to provide, as demonstrated by their past
performance;
b)   for new training programs, the institutions would be required to
provide the FNE data enabling it to assess this new ability;
c)   they must agree to train applicants for the scheduled duration,
in accordance with the terms and conditions that would be set
forth in an agreement between themselves and the FNE;
d)   they must provide training programs appropriate for the needs of
groups of applicants who are to be channeled into the program;
e)   they must agree to help their trainees find a job after the
completion of the training; and
f)   if the institutions require financial assistance from the FNE to
strengthen or expand their services, they would present a
detailed explanation of their needs and demonstrate the
connection between those needs and the delivery of training
services needed in the job market.
16.       Procedures.  Information on the formal training program would, on
the one hand, be passed on to job-seekers who come to DAIR, and on the
other, to vocational training institutions.
17.       The formal training applicants would fill out an application at
the DAIR. The procedure would be explained at that time and the following
points highlighted: (i) the obligation of a partial financial contribution



100
Annex 7: Page 7 of 14
from the training applicant; (ii) the waiting period that may occur (while
prospective trainees are being grouped) before obtdining the training
funds; (iii) the fact that the training institution would be recommended by
the FNE after a review of the application and after consulting with an
expert in vocational guidance and training.
18.       These applications would be forwarded every week to the  NE's
program unit. This unit, with the assistance of outside expertise, which
may be provided by CENAFOP, would analyze the applications to group the
applicants optimally by type of training. Next, the institutions qualified
to provide these types of training would be contacted and the applications
forwarded to them, with an explanation of the type of training they were
being asked to provide. An agreement would be signed between the training
institution and the FNE, identifying the terms and conditions of the
training and of the FNE's contribution.
19.       The FNE's contribution would amount to two-thirds of the
vocational training costs, not to exceed 300,000 CFAF per trainee. This
contribution would be paid to the training institutions at the close of the
session. The applicants' contribution to the training would be paid at the
beginning of the session.
20.       Ex-post Evaluation.  The ex-post program evaluation should make
it possible to evaluate the effect on employment of the support provided
for vocational training. The following are the main points to be learneds
a)  What became of the vocational training applicants?  Did they
complete the training successfully? Did they find a job? Is the
job related to the additional training that the FNE finanLad?
b)   To what extent was the training relevant and how could it be
improved?
c)   What were the problems in program administration, especially for
applicant guidance and selection of training institutions?
d)   Is it relevant to continue this type of program, change it, or
eliminate it?
III.      Self-Employment Creation Program
21.       Introduction.  In the present context of the economic crisis and
adjustment, job opportunities for graduates of the educational and training
system, who formerly were largely dependent on the Government for
employment, are scarce. M*oreover, during the adjustment period, graduates
will have to deal with competition from employees dismissed from the
public, larastatal and private sectors, who already have vocational
experience. In these circumstances it is worthwhile to support the
creation of self-employment. Such a program is not easy, since fostering
self-employment may encounter obstacles in the mentalities of the target
groups. Young graduates hope to find fields where their careers would be
clear-cut and entirely laid out for them. Those who lost their jobs in the



101
Annex 7: Page 8 of 14
public, parastatal and private sectors, have developed living &.d working
habits that make them ill-inclined to the self-employment option.
22.       Cameroon is only beginning to gaini experience in supporting self-
employment. However, several institutions have undertaken such programs.
The Ecole Nationale Sup$rieure de Polytechnique, with support from AFCA,
has established a unit to provide assistance in setting up businesses.
CAFEH (Cellule d'Addquation Formation Emploi), which aims to promote jobs
for young graduates of universities in the economic field in Cameroon, has
done something comparable. Similarly, the Centre de Creation des
Enterprises of Yaounde, an initiative of Canadian and Cameroonian
cooperation, attempts to help individuals create profitable business?s by
preparing a business plan, supervising start-up, and monitoring progress.
This center would be used as a support point for sponsoring applicants to
create self-employment, as a supplement to its current activity.
23.       Another relevant program is being planned by Opportunities
Industrialization Center-Cameroon (COIC), a non-governmental organization,
with a practical training center located in Buea, intended for poor young
men and women. COIC plans to develop a franchising system for its graduate
trainees. These people should be able to create their own jobs after their
training period in Buea. Franchises would be established in four areas in
demand in Cameroont automobile mechanics, construction, furniture making,
and catering.
24.       Obiectives.  The self-employment program aims to stimulate and
support the initiatives taken by unemployed workers and training
institutions to create self-employment. The main objectives are to:
a)   raise awareness and change mentalities and behavior, vhicn are
too heavily marked by an aversion to risks;
b)   provide self-employment applicants with techniques for setting up
businesses;
c)   contribute to the start-up of new businesses that generate at
least one job; and
d)    provide follow-up support to self-employed people.
25.       Selection Criteria.  This program is mainly intended for two
major categories of participants: (i) young graduates of technical
vocational training institutes and graduates of high3r learning
institutions (technical, management); and (ii) redundant workers from
public, parastatal, and private businesses. Young graduates must meet the
following specific criter*a to be admitted into the programs
a)   they must be recent graduates from their training institution,
and recommended by institutions;
b)   they must submit a realistic self-employment project;



102
Annex 7: Page 9 of 14
c)   they must be able to demonstrate that they have a minimum level
of technical and business expertise in the field they intend to
enter, and must demonstrate management skills; and
d)   they must be willing to make a financial investment in their
self-employment, using equity in an amount equal to one-third the
cost of the project.
Redundant workers must have the following profile for admissiont
a)   they must have been dismissed within the twelve months that
precede the date of their application;
b)   they must present a realistic self-employment project;
c)   they must have technical and business expertise in the planned
activity and have experience in management; if this is lacking,
they must undertake to receive in advance management training
from a specialized institution (such as APICA);
d)   to the extent possible, they should seek support from an
organization willing to sponsor them and assist them in their
self-employment project; and
e)   they must be willing to make a financial investment in their
self-employment using equity in an anount equal to one-third the
cost of their project.
26.       Procedures.  Two types of procedures would be followed under the
self-employment creation program. The first would be when a sponsoring
agency provides assistance, and the second when there is no sponsoring
agency.  In the first case, the PNE would enter into agreements with
sponsoring institutions for the young graduates or unemployed workers vho
have submitted their project for creating self-employment. Such agreements
would provide overall funding packages to the above mentioned sponsoring
institutions, which would decide upon the assistance in question.
Financial support to the ultimate beneficiaries would be transferred via
the same institutions after the project agreement is signed by the ultimate
beneficiary. The sponsoring institutions would be compensated for their
services. The amount of assistance under the creation of self-employment
would be a maximum of CFAP 1,500,000 (US$ 5,000 equivalent) per ultimate
beneficiary. In the second case, in which the applicants have not found a
sponsoring institution, the self-employment projects would be assessed
directly by the FNE, which would use o-.tside expertise, especially from
institutions that have sponsored other applicants. Project agreements
would follow a procedure similar to the preceding case and would provide
the same maximum benefit of 1,500,000 CPAP per ultimate beneficiary. In
view of the poor repayment experience with small loan programs in Cameroon,
and of the urgency to start the program, financial assistance to
beneficiaries would be in the form of grants.



103
Annex 7: Page 10 of 14
IV.       The Support Program for Small and Micro-enterprises
27.       Objectives.  One final program of the FNE to foster job creation
for those most affected by the economic crises and the structural
adjustment measures, would be a support program for small and micro-
enterprises. The purpose would be twofold: (i) to foster the establishment
of new businesses, and (ii) to improve the performance of existing
businesses and support creation of new jobs.
28.       The target populations of the support program for small and
micro-enterprises fall into five priority groups:
29.       Young graduates of institutions of higher learning and technical
institutes who have poor opportunities for employment because ofs the
hiring freeze in the civil service, the reorganization of the public
sector, and the problems experienced by private companies due to poor
economic conditions.
30.       Redundant workers from public or private businesses, particularly
those who are more highly educated and entrepreneurial, should be receptive
to help in creating their own micro-enterprises (5 or more jobs),
31.       Manage a of existing small businesses, with low investment (under
US$ 1,000) and very few employees, could improve their results
significantly and _ationalize theit management by developing their sales
capabilities, by modernizing their production machinery, and by increasing
their working capital. To achieve this, they need assistance in the form
of appropriate advice and small loans, which implies gaining formal-sector
status. Improving the performance of these small businesses would make it
possible to create new jobs, and would also prepare for the after-crisis
period, through the gradual emergence of competitive small businesses.
32.       Women entrepreneurs are the fourth target group in the program.
The goal would be to facilitate access to credit for women already working
in business, especially in the commercial sector. Assistance to this
sensitive group should be channeled through existing professional
organizations, such as the Groupement des Femmes d'Affaires Camerounaises,
the Association d'Appui aux Femmes EntrepreAeurs, and the Association de
Promotion de la Femme Africaine, with possible technical support from
certain specialized NGOs, such as APICA, INADES Formation, Centre de
Formatior, et d'Education Populaire, and Organisation Canadienne pour la
Solidarite et le Developpement, and participation of international funding
agencies, such as the Canadian Agency for International Development and the
Women's World Bank.
33.       Civil servants who have taken advantage of early retirement are
the fifth target group. This group would receive a monetary
indemnification as part of early retirement. Some of them would want to
continue working by setting up businesses and by increasing employment
opportunities for others. In this conmext, they would need assistance to
start up businesses, to futd them, and to begin and monitor operations. In
some cases, they may need additional financing provided as loans.



104
Annex 7: Page 11 of 14
34.       Procedures.  An analysis of similar programs over the last few
years in Came  -. and in comparable countries reveals the problems in
implementing operational formulae to reach the target populations and to
enable them to benefit effectively from a micro-enterprise support program.
These problems are severely felt in Cameroon since the parastatal
structures that were intended to perform this function are no longer
operational.
35.       The first step would be a two-year experimental phase that would
be used to test and compare different support formulae and assess the
capabilities of various possible project partners, funding institutions,
training and proficiency centers, and consulting firms and assistance
agencies.
36.       The goal at the close of the first phase would be to enable the
design of a broad, effective system. Several possible channels of support
for sponsors and entrepreneurs should be tested, and lessons should be
learned from the experiments.
37.       The experimental phase would include five components:
a)   establishing a management unit within the FNE for promoting,
coordinating, and evaluating the experimental program's
activities for supporting small and micro-enterprises;
b)   making a study of the regulatory environment for small
businesses;
c)   starting up a pilot funding operation to establish about fifty
mall businesses, with investments between 1.5 and 20 million
CFAF (US$ 5,000-65,000 equivalent);
d)   selecting and testing several training agencies for future
entrepreneurs and business advisers; and
e)   developing analytical capabilities for bankable applications in
selected financial institutions.
38.       After two years the experimental phase would the subject of an
in-depth evaluation by the Government in consultation with the Bank and
other donors. A budget is planned to fund the evaluation using national
independent consultants (3 man-months) and outside consultants (3 man-
months). The evaluation would take into consideration similar experiments
in Cameroon. It would be used to make new proposals to launch the second
phase of the program with higher levels of funding. This second phase
would also be the subject of an evaluation when it ends.
39.       Program Management Unit.  The unit would be responsible, within
the FNE's Program Division, for the detailed design, organization,
implementation and ongoing evaluation of the means of developing small
businesses. It would include: (i) one national expert for two years, and



105
Annex 7. Page 12 of 14
(ii) one internationally recruited adviser specialized in small business
mane-ement and financing (two years). It would also receive assistance
from short-term consultants, both national and international, for the
individual operations described below (12 man-months).
40.       Study of the Regulatory Environment for Small Businesses.  Many
businesses are thwarted by an oft-meddlesome bureaucracy and tax and other
regulations that are not suited to the current situation of economic
crisis. Thus many businesses hesitate to formalize their activities, which
would actually facilitate their growth, especially by providing access to
banks and government contracts. A study would be done by an
internationally-recruited consultant, with assistance from a Cameroonian
expert, to highlight the major obstacles and suggest ways to streamline
administrative procedures and regulations, and simplify tax requirements.
41.       Funding System for Small and Micro-enterprises.  This would
include three components:
a)   A US$ 2 million line of credit, would be made available to
refinance SOZ of loans made by specialized financial institutions
which express interest in taking part in the program, and which
presert bankable micro-enterprise projects for which they are
willing to assume the full credit risks.
b)   Grants, of up to US$ 1,500 equivalent in each case, would be made
to help prepare and analyze bankable applications by the
financial institutions involved. These banks would be given
incentives to develop skills in medium-term loans to small
businesses, and to encourage recourse to specialized independent
consultants.
c)   Technical assistance would be provided to banks to make their
loan services to small and medium-sized businesses more
effective. Such organizational support would be provided by
national consultants, banking specialists (3 man-months), and if
need be, by international consultants.
42.       Financing for selected financial institutions would be
established by the management unit on a case-by-case basis, according to
the rate of loan commitments to small and medium-sized businesses. Thus,
the most dynamic banks would benefit from increased resources. Three
financial institutions interested in lending to small and micro-enterprise
were identified during appraisal, and would be used to the extent that
their own resources turn out to be insufficient. These are: (i) the
Cameroon Cooperative and Credit Union League, (ii) la Caisse Communal
d'Epargne et d'Investissement, and (iii) l'Union des Caisses Populaires de
Yaoundt. The latter institution would only be used if it becomes
operational in granting loans to small businesses.
43.       The FNE would lend 802 of the needed resources to the financial
institution as and when it approved a loan to a micro-enterprise. The
financial institution would pay interest to the PNE at the World Bank



106
Annex 7: Page 13 of J,.
lending rate at the time of payment, and would charge the borrower a
commercial rate, currently 12 percent, giving the financial institution a
spread of about 4 percent. The decision to grant a loan to an entrepreneur
would be made solely by the financial institution involved, at its o1in
risk.
44.       One of the tasks of the FNE management unit would be to evaluate
the capabilities of these financial institutions. Additional financial
institutions may be qualified, subject to FNE and donors' approval, to use
this facility.
45.       Assistance and Advice on Business Activities of the Target
Groups. A major problem would be to develop consulting capabilities in
advising small and medium-sized businesses. Considering the deficiencies
experienced by CAPME and FOGAPE, such assistance should be provided by the
private sector.
46.       Several NGOs, some professional organizations, private consulting
firms, and independent consultants, have already expressed interest in this
activity, and should be selected according to their performance in
establishing plans for business projects, and providing consulting services
to existing businesses to improve management and productivity. The
experimental program would include a special budget of US$ 100,000 to
recruit and compensate consultants for this assistance function. A small
group of advisers would be selected who could benefit from a grant for
supplemental training lasting from six to twelve months.
47.       Selection of Vocational Training and Management Training
Institutions for Business Developers and Advisers. Many young graduates
and redundant workers, women as well as men, will need to take advantage of
short term training (three to six weeks) on procedures and steps for
setting up a small business, as well as on production techniques and
elementary management rules. Certain NGOs, such as IPD, APICA or OIC, have
offered their services in this field.  A budget of U$ 100,000 would be
available to enable the FNE to subcontract training modules to these
bodies.
48.       The Possible Second Phase.  This phase would last two years and
would aim to intensify activities that were successful during the
experimental phase. Ongoing outside assistance to the management unit
would no longer be necessary. It would be replaced with temporary outside
support given by an international consultant who would act on a periodic
basis (three times one month during the first year, and once during the
second year). Support for financial institutions would be extended to new
commercial banks if they are willing to assume responsiblity for technical
support to micro-enterprises and assume the full credit risk. The amount
of the line of credit would be increased substantially if the results of
the first phase warranted, and so would allowances for preparing bankable
plans, training, and consulting services to trainers and entrepreneurs.
Business supervisors would also be evaluated for long-term training.



107
Annex 7s Page 14 of 14
49.       The second phase would also conclude an evaluation, to be
performed during the twenty-first months by the Government, in consultation
with the Bank and other donors. Funds for the evaluation (2 man-months for
a national expert and 2 man-months for an outside consultant) are included
in the Project.
V.        Costs
50.       Estimated costs for the FNE programs are as follows:
(US$ million equivalent)
On-the-Job Training                                     4.4
Formal Training                                         5.9
Self-Employment
First Phase                                        2.3
Second Phase (if warranted)                        7.7
Small and Micro-Enterprises
First Phase                                        2.0
Second Phase (if warranted)                        4.2
Studies                                            0.2
26.7



108
Annex Ss Page 1 of 9
Annex 8
Women in Development Prosram
I.   Policy and Institutional Framework
1.        In order to provide a suitable policy and institutional
environment for a comprehensive approach to WID issues, the Government has
decided to initiate a process of reorienting the mandate of the Ministry of
Soci&l and Women's Affairs (MINASCOF) towards a normative, conceptual and
coordinating role and of strengthening its technical and institutional
capacities, in order to broaden the scope and impact of Government actions.
While strengthening its direct actions to develop the skills and income
earning potential of disadvantaged women through its outreach program, the
Ministry would gradually become a abridging", rather than primarily
executive, agency, focussing on the conceptualization, development,
coordination, and evaluation of WID strategies. In this new context,
!INASCOF would be responsible for coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating
the design and implementation of interventions of other line ministries and
NG0s aimed at increasing women's access to social and productive services
while gradually limiting its own action programs to those areas where it
has a clear comparative advantage, such as the dissemination of information
for and about women.
II. Components
2.        To support this approach, three components would constitute the
core of the WID modules
a)   policy and institutional measures to strengthen MINASCOF's
technical capacity as a normative, coordinating, monitoring'.
and evaluation agency;
b'   the development of an operational strategy and an associated
multisectoral strategy to provide a coherent framework to
integrate women in all development actions and to identify
key sectoral strategies for Government and donor support;
c)   specific actions to (i) launch an Information, Education and
Communication program; and (ii) reorient existing support
services for women towards the development of cost-effective
and sustainable productive activities.
3.        Costs of the WID module are estimated at US$ 5.7 million
equivalent, distributed as shown in the table attached to this annex. The
structures and programs involved in the module are illustrated graphically
in Figure 1.



109
Annex 8: Page 2 of 9
III.      Institutional strengthening of MINASCOF
4.        The reorientation of MINASCOF's mandate and the successful
implementation of the multisectoral WID strategy require the establishment
of proper institutional linkages and the strengthening of MINASCOFs
capacity for
planning, coordin-       SMCTURES
ation and,                                                        MINPAT
evaluation.  A decree
establishing a
Planning, Coordin-                n(Oafgce of th Uinitr)
ation and Evaluation                        _        Is
Division (CPCE)                         o        n      C r ,    D Tas Forc
within MINASCOF not        Ievce       ntonatio nd             WM Tk Force
Ssov1c 1Doeumenttion       _.
later than December                      Service
31, 1990 is being
prepared by the
Government. A decree   PRNOGRAM
establishing the
reoriented mandate of       Suport      ZEC rogram  Monit rin   a Wd Sttegy
MINASCOF and theServie                         and0      and Multi-
MINASCOF and the                                   Evaluation    Sectoral
operationalization of                                           Action Plan
this mandate through
proper institutional   Figure 1: Structures and Programs of the VID Nodule
linkages with
relevant ministries,
would be adopted by September 30, 1991.
5.        The CPCE would be responsible fort
a)   coordinating the preparation of the WID strategy and its
multisectoral implementation plan for the integration of
women in the development process;
b)   coordinating the implementation of the multisectoral
strategy, by making sure that it is taken into account in
national and sectoral planning by means of the linkages
referred to above;
c)   in the area of information and statistics, (i) creating a
data bank which would permit the monitoring of the impact of
government interventions on the status and role of
Cameroonian women and would make possible the yearly
publication of a progress report on key indicators following
the analytical framework defined in the multisectoral
strategy; (ii) participating in the design and analysis of
the permanent household survey to be set up under the SDA
Project; and (iii) promoting gender-disaggregation in all
Government data collection;



110
Annex 8: Page 3 of 9
d)   evaluating the human resources and technical expertise
available within MINASCOF to identify needs for redeployment
and retraining to support the reorientation of its mandate;
e)   reorganizing the planning and programming process within
MINASCOF to ensure the timely availability of proper
resources to operationalize the reoriented mandate (this
would be put into practice in the programming and budget
exercise from fiscal year 1992-1993 on);
f)   establishing a system for monitoring and evaluation of the
field actions of MINASCOF, focussing in the short tenm on
supervising the reorientation of the urban and rural support
services for women and on the evaluation of the Information,
Education and Communication program.
6.        The CPCE would also be responsible fort
a)   the introduction of the principles of cost-recoveLy,
participation, and responsabilization in the ministry's
support services, in order to enhance the long-term viabilty
of the Ministry's actions;
b)   the definition and integration of priorities in order to
focus particular attention on the most vulnerable groups
while broadening opportunities for women in general.
7.        The Project would finance technical assistance, equipment needed
by the CPCE Division, training of its management staff, the organization of
seminars, and local travel.
IV. Multisectoral VID Strategy and Imilementation Plan
8.        The objective of this component is to develop a coherent
operational strategy and implementation plan to ensure the participation of
women in the growth and economic recovery process by improving their
welfare and their ability to respond to a changing economic environment. A
number of sectoral studies would be financed under the Project to provide
an analytical and conceptual basis for the formulation of the strategy andQ
associated implementation plan.
9.        Based on an initial assessment of issues1, these studies would
address the legal, administrative, and sectoral constraints affecting women
(education, population and public health, agriculture and environment,
labor, self employment and financial sectors). Special emphasis will be
placed on improving women's access to credit. Other studies would focus on
women's associations in Cameroon and appropriate information, education and
communication strategies. Finally, an analytical framework would be
developed for monitoring the welfare and role of women vis-&-vis the
1VID Country Assessment Cameroon, White Cover, August 1989.



111
Annex 8* Page 4 of 9
various macro-economic and sectoral policies. Generic guidelines for the
preparation of the multisectoral strategy are attached to this annex (pages
8-9). Detailed terms of reference for the first of these studies on the
factors affecting girls' school enrollment and participation are included
in the Project File. The recommendations resulting from these studies
would be incorporated in the formulation of the multisectoral strategy and
would be discussed with the respective line ministries and other relevant
structures in a series of consultation seminars. In preparation of this
research program, MINASCOF would undertake an inventory of present actions
in the area of Women in Development in Cameroon, as well as an inventory of
studies related to this subject to provide a comprehensive overview of
existing knowledge and experience on the subject. Completion of the WID
strategy report and associated implementation plan is planned for March
1992, with implementation of the strategy scheduled from fiscal year 1992-
1993 on.
10.       An interdisciplinary Task Force, with representatives of the
Government, the private sector, and NGOs, as well as the academic world,
would be established to formulate this operational strategy under the
conceptual leadership of MINPAT, with MINASCOF assuring the operational
coordination of the implementation of the strategy. The Project would
finance consulting services and related preparatory work for the strategy,
as well as the organization of seminars.
V.        Information, Education and Communication Program
11.       The primary objective of this action would be to produce and
disseminate effective information materials to reach four categories of
peoples (i) disadvantaged women; (ii) decision-makers; (iii) people working
with women at the grassroots level (rural animators, community development
agents, personnel of the social centers and women's centers, NGOs); and
(iv) the Cameroonian people in general.
12.       For each of the categories above, appropriate messages and
information channels need to be defined, taking into account the
linguistic, ethnic, cultural, and ecological diversity of the country.
Initially, priority would be given to information on and for women in the
areas of focus of the SDA Project. Particular attention would be paid to
the development of innovative approaches. Evidence has shown that the use
of popular music and plays are more effective means to reach broad
categories of the population than the typical presentation through
lectures. Distribution of video and audio cassettes would be organized
through both the media and face-to-face communication by field workers.
Efforts would be made to reach women where they concentrate (e.g. at
markets and maternal and child health services). The urban and rural
support services for women and the mass media would also be used to
disseminate information. A proposal on the objectives of and procedures
for conducting this program is included in the Project File.
13.       The Information and Documentation Service of MINASCOF would have
the primary responsibility for this action. The Project would finance
technical assistance, equipment of the Information and Documentation



112
Annex 8: Page 5 of 9
Service and training of its staff, as well as the production of IEC
materials.
VI.       Reorientation of SUPport Services
14.       MINASCOF's rural animators, social and women's centers have made
a contribution to the enhancement of women's welfare and participation in
the economy. However, the impact of these activities has been limited by
their focus on promotion of traditional and/or non-functional skills which
do not lead to gainful employment for women. Moreover, the emphasis has
been on the construction of new physical infrastructure (social and women's
centers) rather than on making existing services effective. Given the
general lack of support services in urban areas, and the limited access of
women to rural extension services, these outreach services are necessary to
fill the current gap.
15.       This component would support the reorientation of MIINASCOF's
outreach services towards the development of skills and income generating
schemes to provide productive self-employment for disadvantaged women. The
Education Service of MINASCOF would have the primary responsibility for
this action.
16.       Urban outreach services.  In urban areas, a phased program would
be adopted to assist the more functional of the social and women's centers
in: (i) improving their training programs for young girls; (ii) increasing
the centers' cost-recovery capacity through the development of income
generating activities linked to on-the-job training for "home economics,
trainees; (iii) organizing seminars and courses for adult women; and (iv)
developing outreach activities. Implementation of the program would be
dependent on an on-going evaluation of existing urban centers to
rationalize their management, improve their performance, and select the
most functional centers to be supported under the Project. The terms of
reference for this study are included in the Project File.
17.       Training programs for girls would be reoriented toward
establishing viable microenterprises. Thus, specialized courses would be
strengthened, arrangements made for on-the-job training, and courses on how
to set up and manage microenterprises added to the program. Special
attention would be given to preparation of credit applications. Following
the successful example of the Women's Center in Douala, to reduce drop-out
rates, courses in responsible parenthood will be included in the programs.
The P:oject would finance the production of textbooks and teaching
materials as well as the training of one teacher per selected outreach
center.
18.       To strengthen the cost-recovery capacity of MINASCOF's urban
outreach centers, the Project would provide financial support for the
launching of income-earning activities. These activities would have to
meet the following criteria: (i) they must be linked to on-the-job training
for the centers' students; (ii) they must be in areas that lend themselves
to the eventual establishment of small enterprises by the students; and
(iii) they must be justified by a feasibility study comparable to those



113
Annex 8: Page 6 of 9
required by PRODEC. A financing package has been earmarked for each
structure included in the Project. The directors of the inc'uded centers
would receive management training to be offered by a qualified NGO.
19.       Every urban outreach center included in the Project would
organize seminars for adult women on the subject of creating and managing
small businesses. These seminars would be subcontracted to qualified NGOs.
Special attention would be given to the organization of pxograms tailored
to the learning capacity the beneficiaries.
20.       The Project would also finance certain promotional activ.,ties
organized by the urban outreach structures. The activitiei intended are
those that seek to reach as many people as possible at the lowest cost
possible (liaison bulletin, loud-speaker etc.,. A fin icing package would
be earmarked for each structure included in the Project.
21.       Rural outreach services.  This component would gradually reorient
the activities of MINASCOF's rural animators. Their role would become
twofold, emphasizing: (i) information and consciousness-raising activities,
and (ii) liaison between rural women and the services of the specialized
Government agencies. This reorientation would initially focus on the areas
of concentration of the SDA Project. The Government has agreed to initiate
a process of consultation with the relevant line ministries to reach an
agreement on the redefinition of the role and respons;.bilities of the
various rural outreach structures prior to project implementation to
eliminate the current overlapping and duplication of responsibilities among
different services. The Project would finance technical assistance,
training and logistical equipment needed.



114
Annex 8s Page 7 of 9
Estimated Bas. Costs (USS thousand)
Institutional Strent.henl no
Toehnical Assistance - Consultants                                                         420
Personnel                                                                                  Sol
Missions - Training - Seminars                                                             U42
Equipment                                                                                  8(9
Operation and Maintenance                                                                  381
T;g
Definition of WID Stratern and Multisectoral Im.lemntatlon Plan
Technical Assistanco - Consultants                                                         416
Missions - Training  - Seminars                                                            887
Equipment                                                                                  105
Operation and Maintenance                                                                   s8
Intormetion. Education and Communication Program
Technical Assistance                                                                       82?
Misslons - Training - Seminars                                                             190
Equipment                                                                                   75
Production of IEC Materials                                                                860
Operation and Mlaitsnanco                                                                   s0
Reorientation of SuppOrt Services
Technical Assisance                                                                        82?
Missions - Training - Seminars                                                             78C
Studies                                                                                     29
Publication                                                                                 21
Equipment                                                                                  741
Operation and MIintenance                                                                   14
i;m"
Administration Unit
Personnel                                                                                   48
Equipment                                                                                    5
Operating and Maintenance                                                                   12
Total                                                                                    6,780



115
Annex 8s Page 8 of 9
MULTISECTORAL STRATEGY FOR THE INTEGRATION OF WOMEN
IN THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
1.   Objectives
The overall objective of the multisectoral strategy and
implementation plan is to achieve the more effective integration of
Cameroonian women in the socio-economic development process by improving
their capacity to respond and adapt to macro-economic and sectoral
incentives.
In concrete terms, the multisectoral implementation plan
will consist of the following:
a.   Diagnostic study
-    a quick and effective diagnostic study of the current s1tiation
of Cameroonian women: economic status and role, identification
of main constraints encountered and against which concrete action
can be taken (lejal, socio-economic and cultural constraints);
-    assessment of existing information and statistics, identification
of gaps;
-    evaluation of government policies and strategies having an impact
on the status and role of women, institutional framework,
specific actions;
-    evaluation of other pregrams:  those of NGOs, donor agencies etc.
-    summary of past experiences _.n order to identify inrovative and
successful approaches;
-    evaluation of the capacity and potential of women's groups and
associations in order to promote productive activities.
b.   Formulation of key strategies
-    strengthening and expansion of basic data collection
(disaggregated by gender), research and analytical evidence on
the economic and social factors that have impact on women;
-    formulation of an analytical framework (key indicators) for
monitoring changes in the situation of women under the effects of
various macro-economic and sectoral incentive policiess
-    formulation of specific sectoral strategies, policy measusres,
concrete activities and identification of the resources needed to
put these strategies into operation;
-    identificatinn of innovative approaches to test within specific
areas aimed at developing empirical evidence;
-    identification and articulation of appropriate institutional
channels in order to operationalize the strategies developed and
to ensure their monitoring and evaluation.



116
Annex 8: Page 9 of 9
2.   Main aspects to be studied
a.   Role and contribution within the household:
-    traditional ialelfemale roles;
-    decision-ma'.ing process within the household;
-    origin and  istribution of resources within the household;
-    use of tia   division of tasks, multiplicity of women's tasks and
impact on ?roductivity and income and also on access to social
and productive services.
b.   Women as economic agents
Present and potential role of women within the economic
sectors, constraints that limit their productivity and revenue. Factors
that limit their capacity to respond to macro-economic and sectoral
incentives: mobility and access to information, resources and markets
(e.g. labor, inputs, financial services, commercialization)
-    agricultural production, stockraising and natural resources,
taking regional variations into account (ecological, ethnic and
cultural);
-    nonagricultural sectors:  participation in the labor market,
informal sector.
C.   Access to social services
Factors responsible for the low level of education,
information, nutrition and health and their impact on the productivity and
income of women, the welfare of the family and on the economy in general.
-    education;
-    health, population and nutrition.
3.   Preparation of the Multisectoral Strategy
The Government will invite an expanded interdisciplinary
task force to plan the next phases in the formulation of the strategy
(sector-specific terms of reference together with the expertise required,
the timetable and coordination of the work).



117
Annex 9: Page 1 of 10
Annex 9
PRODEC Organization and Operation
1.        Obiectives.  To strengthen the Government's policy of support to
grassroots activities, a primarily urban Community Development Program
(PRODEC), with initial funding of US$ 5.0 million equivalent, would be set
up under the Project. PRODEC would provide a financial and institutional
mechanism to support, through grants, community groups' endeavors to
improve their welfare, by providing social infrastructure and services
which are beyond the government's capacity to prov'.de, and by generating
productive activities. The Program, targeting the urban poor, would
provide financial assistance to community groups and individuals who need
financing for: (a) small-scale social infrastructure benefitting the
community, (b) social services for the community in the areas of hygiene,
health, education, training, and nutrition, (c) training and management
support in simple business skills, and (d) small-scale income generating
activities (micro-enterprises) sponsored by groups or individuals.
PRODEC's field agents would also inform potential beneficiaries about the
assistance the program could provide and assist them in preparing projects.
2.        Target Groups.  The urban population has been particularly
affected by the present crisis and will also feel the effects of the
adjustment and restructuring measures included in the Structural Adjustment
Program. Consequently the principal target groups for PRODEC funding would
be the most vulnerable strata of the urban population. While the
participation of rural populations in the nation's development is also of
critical importance, this goal would be promoted primarily through the
proposed Food Security Project being prepared for Bank financing, rather
than through PRODEC.1
3.        The main groups to which assistance would be directed includes
a)   those below the poverty level, defined as those whose incomes are
insufficient to provide for basic needs (at present the data to
measure this level are inadequate but should gradually improve as
data from the household survey become available and are
analyzed);
lTo prevent a duplication of structures and activities, the Government has
established a division of labor between PRODEC and the proposed Food Security
Project. Activities in the social sectors, such as health, hygiene, water
supply, and education, would fall under PRODEC, as would artisanal production
(including the production of agricultural tools) and non-agricultural services.
In contrast, agricultural production (inclusive of livestock, forestry, and
fishing), storage, marketing, small-scale transformation of agricultural
products, and small rural infrastructure (e.g., roads, ponds, bridges) would be
covered by the Food Security Project. Both projects would support management
training in their respective areas of activity.



118
Annex gs Page 2 of 10
b)   households lacking access to basic services, essential
infrastructure, and other forms of support; and
c)  women and children (especially pregnant and lactating mothers and
infants).
4.        Project Selection Criteria.  Social projects are intended to meaet
the needs of target groups in the areas of social services (such as
hygiene, health, education, training, or nutrition) and social
infrastructure. The criteria for the selection of these projects would bet
a)   the projects should reflect the expressed needs of the community;
b)   the projects should be capable of becoming self-sustainingt they
should generate enough revenues to cover their operating costs;
c)   the promoters of the project should have, or be capable of
acquiring, the ability to manage and administer the grant and the
project;
d)   PRODEC would not provide grants for the construction of buildings
(although the completion of buildings could be considered).
5.        For-profit projects should meet the following criteria:
a)   the activity should create employment;
b)   the financial feasibility of the project should be demonstratedt
the project should maintain a positive cash flow and become
profitable within a reasonable time period;
c)   the promoters of the project should have, or be capable of
acquiring, the ability to manage the project;
d)   the promoters of the project should contribute (financially or in
kind) a minimum of 50 percent of the project's cost, with a
minimum financial contribution of 25 percent.
6.        PRODEC projects are intended to be primarily small-scale, costing
between CFAP 100,000 and CFAF 10 million (about US$ 300 and US$ 33,000
equivalent, respectively).
7.        PRODEC Organization and Management.  In order to assure the rapid
and efficient channeling of funds to beneficiaries the management structure
of PRODEC must be flexible and decentralized. To this end, a relatively
light structure has been created as part of the CTC/DSA with a small
management unit in Yaounde and four field agents (aantennes") and small
Provincial Committees in Yaounde, Douala, Bamenda, and Garoua (see Fig. 1).
The eventual expansion of PRODEC to other provinces could be envisaged if
additional financing were to become available.



119
Annex 9: Page 3 of 10
Technica I
Coordlinsti.0
8.        To supervise the                         comm "
coordination and financial                         (CC/M)
management of PRODEC, a
management unit (Cellule du
Programme de Developpement
Communautaire) has been
created under the Project's                npovi,,DnI    PowncII  Pr Ynfl
Central Coordinating                                     CoDitt  
Committee (CTC/DSA), with a
Unit Chief (Chef du Cellule
PRODEC), a project                            PAe- 
assistant, and a secretary.                     u Yrmsa            9?u
The Unit Chief, hired by and
responsible to the SDA
Project Administrator, would  Figure 1: PRODEC Organization
supervise the work of the
field agents, and review the reports submitted by the Provincial
Commissions.  One of his first tasks would be to prepare, and submit to the
CTC/DSA for approval, an Operational Manual for PRODEC. A project
assistant would help plan and review programs, and help supervise the work
of the field agents.  The bookkeeper of the SDA Project Management Unit
would keep the accounts of the PRODEC program and its management unit.
9.        The identification, appraisal, selection and supervision of
PRODEC projects would take place at the provincial level. In each province
with a field agent, a small committee would be established that would meet
every month or two (depending on demand) to review applications submitted
by the PRODEC field agents.2 These committees would be composed of fot,r
individuals: the Governor's Economic Councilor (Conseiller Economique) who
would serve as chairperson, the Provincial Delegate (Delegue Provincial) of
the planning ministry, the Provincial Controller (ContrOleur Provincial des
Finances) of the finance ministry, and the Mayor of the provincial capital.
The field agents would serve as secretaries to the Provincial Committees
and prepare the Committees' minutes and reports which would be sent to the
Unit Chief. They would also review the feasibility of projects submitted
to them, help prepare project identification sheets (model project
identification sheets may be found at the end of this annex), present
applications to the Provincial Comittees, engage in public relations
activities to bring PRODEC to the attention of potential beneficiaries,
supervise projects, and prepare progress reports prior to meetings of the
Provincial Committees. In order to inform the community of PRODEC
activities, promote the exchange of information and collaboration within
the community, and provide a channel for feedback to the PRODEC agents and
provincial committees, the field agents would organize quarterly meetings
of the community groups, NGOs, and other organizations involved (or
2Provincial committees could eventually be established in other provinces
if the provincial government so desired and if one of the field agents identified
potential projects in the province concerned.



120
Annex 9s Page 4 of 10
potentially involved) in the identification and/or implementation of PRODEC
projects.
10.       At the end of the Project, arrangements would be made for the
administration of PRODEC to pass into the hands of the planning ministry or
another ministry of the Government's choice.
11.       The Proiject Cycle.  The project
cycle would consist of (i) the bottom-up           AM              F^s RIN
process of project identification and              F"; ^    M. tD,I
approval, and (ii) the top-down process of  cx /M
project funding (see Fig. 2).  The field                t              t
agent would identify and/or receive project         LG"_{"¢al
ideas, assist the project promoters in the
preparation of funding requests, have them
cleared by the relevant ministry (e.g..                                4
projects related to health would be cleared
by the Ministry of Health), then present
the requests to the provincial committee,
with his recommendations.  For projects        Figure 2t The Project Cycle
costing less than 3 million CFAF, the
committee would then approve or reject the project. If approved, the field
agent would have the Unit Chief request that the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement authorize disbursement to the beneficiary and notify the
field agent of the disbursement. For purposes of supervision, the minutes
of the Committee meetings, accompanied by the files of all projects
considered, would be sent to the Unit Chief following the meetings.
12.       For those projects costing 3 million CFAF or more, the project
file would be submitted, with the recommendation of the Provincial
Committee, to the Administrator of the CTC/DSA for approval. Projects
costing more than 5 million CFAF would also require the approval of the
Bank (projects would be considered approved if the Bank did not respond
within 15 working days). If approved the Unit Chief would request that the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement authorize disbursement to the beneficiary
and notify the field agent of the disbursement. For larger projects funds
could be disbursed in tranches after verification by the field agent of
project progress.
13.       The Pilot Phase.  Following the identification mission the World
Bank contracted four local consultants to identify and prepare pilot
projects in the cities of Bamenda, Douala, Garoua, and Yaounde. By the end
of the appraisal mission, these consultants had identified some 59
potential pilot projects for funding during the start-up phase of the
program. Following are some examples of these projects. They are listed
here in order to give an indication of the type of intervention that is
envisaged, though these particular projects may or may not be financed.
a)   Yaoundes Neighborhood Water SupplY. Five years ago the spring
which provided water to the neighborhood of Mendong (on the
outskirts of Yaounde) was destroyed. The community group Bia,
composed of 62 families in the neighborhood and supported by



121
Annex 9s Page 5 of 10
MINASCOF, has negotiated a water supply project with the Cameroon
National Water Company. While the city of Yaounde will
contribute substantially to the project, the group needs to raise
some CFAF 2 million (about US$ 7,000 equivalent) to complete the
project. The group has requested a grant of CFAF 1.5 million
(about US$ 5,000 equivalent) from PRODEC.
b)   Garoua: Crafts.  Garoua has a long tradition of craftsmanship.
In order to expand employment and income in the town, the
municipality plans to open several small boutiques to sell local
crafts to the tourists who come to visit the area. Several
groups of artisans, including leather workers, silversmiths,
embroiders, and seamstresses, would like to use PRODEC financing
to expand and improve the quality of their production, which
would be marketed through these boutiques. These micro-
enterprises are seeking financing ranging from CFAF 200,000 to
CFAF 2.9 million (about US$ 650 to US$ 9,500 equivalent).
c)   Bamenda: Christian Women's Fellowship (CWF) Students' Hostel.  In
1987 the CWF, a Presbyterian service organization with some 2,500
members, decided to build a hostel to house female high school
students who come to Bamenda from rural areas. The group raised
CFAF 4 million (about US$ 13,000 equivalent) and has nearly
completed construction of a first building. An additional CFAF
6.5 million (about US$ 21,000 equivalent) is needed to complete
and equip the building and to begin operations.
d)   Douala: Garbage Collection.  In the squatter settlements of
Douala there exists considerable unemployment and unsanitary
living conditions. In one neighborhood youths have begun a
garbage collection service as means of addressing both problems.
Households will pay a small fee to have their trash removed on a
regular basis.  It is estimated that CFAF 5.2 million (about
USS 17,000 equivalent) is needed to get this service working on a
sustainable basis.
14.       The community development module would cost US$ 5.8 million
(including contingencies, excluding taxes) as follows (US$ thousand
equivalent):
ADMINISTRATION
Travel                                  46
Training                               23
Equipment                               76
Vehicles                                64
Operation and Maintenance              124
Personnel                              470
802
PROJECTS                                  5,000
5,802



122
Annex 9: Page 6 of 10
Project Identification Sheet
Social Project
Community Social Services, Infrastructure, Training
I.        Summary Description of the Pro3ect:
Project Type: Describe the activity, its purpose and goals.
History: Describe the origins, development. and current status
of the project.
Beneficiaries: Who will benefit from the project?
Management: How will the project be organized and executed?
Describe the existing management competence and experience of the
staff.
II. Financina:
To what extent can the sponsors of the project contribute, financially or
in kind, to the project?
A. Financina Needs:
Describe what needs to be financed.
B. Financing Requested:
Purpose of Grant: What, specifically, will the grant be
used for?
Amount Requested:
C. Contribution of the Beneficiary:
Financial Contribution:
Personal contribution
Sales of goods and services
Other
Contribution in kind:
Labor
Materials
Other
D.   Other Sources of FinancinRs
Grants from Government
Grants from Foreign Agencies
Other



123
Annex 9s Page 7 of 10
III. Evaluation of Project Viability
To be eligible for a PRODEC grant, the project must able to sustain itself
after receiving PRODEC funding. This means that the project must be able
to cover its operating andlor maintenance costs.
A.   Expected 2Perating/Maintenance Costes
(per month or year)
B.   Expected Revenue:
(per month or year)
Sale of Products-Services
Other Sources of Income
Expected revenue should be at least equal to expected
operating/maintenance costs.
C.  Timing:
How long will it take for the project to become viable,
i.e., before expected revenues become adequate to cover the
expected operating costs?
IV. Training Needs:
Describe any training needed to ensure the success of the project.



124
Annex 9: Page 8 of 10
Project Identification Sheet
Micro-Enterprise
I.   Summary Description of the Activity:
Describe the activity, the administrative and management capacity of the
entrepreneur, the number of employees hired (or family labor) and their job
descriptions, future plans/goals of expansion. diversificationl. etc...
II. Evaluation of Financing Needs:
A.   Investments
Quantity or Size     Value/Unit      Total value
Land
Buildings
Equipment
Total:
B.   Working Capital Needs
Working capital should cover an appropriate percentage of the
operating costs defined below. Indicate why you chose this amount.
Amount:
C.   Other Sources of Financing
What other sources of financing are available for the project, e.g.,
personal savings and contributions, financing from tontines, other
loans, government or foreign grants and subsidies, etc...
Sources of Financing         Amount (CFAP)
Loans
Personal Contributions
Tontines
Government Grant-Subsidy
Foreign Grant
Retained Earnings
Total:
D.   Financing Requested:
Total investment needs plus working capital needs minus other sources
of financing (A + B - C):



125
Annex 9s Page 9 of 10
III. Evaluation of Project Viability
'What is the additional income expected if the loan is made to the
enterprise, e.g. how many more products can be made, how much more of these
products can be sold, and at what exp'cted price per unit? Will the
enterprise be able to reimburse the loan? How long will it take for the
project to become viable, i.e., before the project begins to generate the
revenues necessary to repay the loan (be sure to take this time lag into
account in determining working capital needs above)? Are thore any special
conditions which might effect the enterprise's ability to repay the loan?
Provide projected profit and loss and cash flow statements for the next
three years using the following examples:
PROFI AND LOSS STATEMENT
Present
Values      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3
A.   Operating Revenues
Sale of Products and Services
(specify items)
1.
2.
Total:
B.   Operating Costs
1. Salaries
2. Raw Material
3. FuelIElectricity
4. Rent
5. Maintenance
6. Other Expenses
7. Depreciation
Totalt
C.   Operating Income (A - B)
D.   Non-opersting Income
E.   Non-operating Expenses
1. Other expenses
2. Interest payments
F.   Pre-tax Income (C + D - E)
G.   Tax
H.   Net Income (F - G)



126
Annex 9: Page 10 of 10
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Present
Values      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3
A.   Cash ReceiDts
1. Sales of Products and Services
2. Equity Investments
3. Loans
Total:
B.   Cash Disbursements
1. Operating Costs
(as above less depreciation)
2. Interest Payments
3. Repayment of Debt (principal)
4. Tax
5. Capital Expenditures
Totalt
C.   Balance (A - B)
IV. Training needs:
Describe the existing competence of staff and what is needed in the way of
training.



127
Annex 10 Page 1 of 3
Annex 10
Cameroonian Household Survey Plan of Operation
Introduction
1.        The Cameroonian Household Survey system (ECAM) would provide a
rapid and regular source of data on the standard of living and the socio-
economic statu* of households during the adjustment process. The ECAM would
include 3 types of survey 2 Priority, Integrated and Community.
Basic principles
2.        The 'CAM would enhance the capacity of the Planning Ministry
(MINPAT) to gather, process and analyze socio-economic data on households.
It would be built upon the continuation of the Consumption-Budget Survey
(EBC) conducted in 1983-84, and would provide follow-up analysis of socio-
economic household indicators.
3.        A User's Committee would be set up by September 1990 to assure
the relevance of collected variables and the appropriate use of these
variables in the design of actions which would aid vulnerable households.
The Committee would be composed of MINPAT's partners (e.g., MINSANTE,
MINEDUC, HINASCOF, MINAGRI) and would give advice on various aspects of
SCAM, particularly on questionnaires and the analysis plan.
Methodology
4.        The ECAM methodology and documents would be based on the SDA
prototype surveys designed by the World Bank SDA Unit and adapted to
Cameroonian needs. During the project life span, there would be a Priority
Survey in 1990, an Integrated Survey in 1991-92, followed by Priority and
Community Surveys in 1993 and a Priority Survey in 1994.
5.        The Priority Survey would be designed to identify vulnerable
groups and to monitor Cameroon's key social indicators. It would be
administered to a large sample of approximately 18,000 households and would
use a short questionnaire. Data collection duration would not exceed
3 months. Data analysis would be available approximately two months after
the collection of data.
6.        The Integrated Survey would provide the necessary information to
investigate the complexity of the impact of adjustment on different
household groups and to establish the relationship between macro-economic
policies and their effect at the household level. It would be administered
to a sample of about 4000 households and would use a more comprehensive
questionnaire than the priority survey. This questionnaire would be
designed to integrate data in areas includimng: demography, health,
education, economic activity, consumption, savings, and nutrition. The
data collection exercise would last for a year.



128
Annex 10: Page 2 of 3
7.        The Community Survey would provide key information on changes at
the intermediate level between macroeconomic policies and households, such
as villages, community services, markets, and health centers.
8.        The Sample Desi8n of the various surveys would be consistent.
The particular sample drawlng would be designed during the pre-survey
activities. Basically, tV: sample design would be done in two steps. The
primary sample frameworks would be the list of enumeratior areas of the
Second National Population Census. Therefore, close collaboration would be
established with the National Directorate of the Second Population Census.
This sample base would be evaluated and would be updated if necessary
through punctual actions. The primary unit (first stage) would be drawn
from this base and a list of households would be established. From this
latter list, the final household sample (second stage) would be drawn. The
sample desigi for the community survey would be designed during pre-survey
activities.
9.        Data Processing and Analysis.  Data would be entered at the
provincial level and then processed at the Central Statistical office in
Yaound#. After verification, data from each of the three types of surveys
and the EBC would be organized into a socioeconomic data base. The first
publication, Preliminary Results of the ECAM, would be distributed
immediately after data from each survey are processed. A global analysis
plan would be established based on the SDA Analysis Plans and adapted to
Cameroon's needs. Living Conditions in Caweroon Households would be
published after each survey and would serve as the basis for a seminar on
the results of the ECAM open to all users.
10.       Monitoring and Evaluation.   Special attention would be paid to
monitoring the various stages of the surveys to ensure the high qualitv of
the data.
Organization
11.       The ECAM would be Implemented by the Statistics and National
Accounting Directorate (DSCN) of MINPAT. The Director of DSCN would be the
national director of the ECAM and the Chief of Census and Survey Central
Bureau (BCRE) would be the technical director.  The ECAM would be composed
of (i) a Central Unit consisting of four sections; data collection, data
processing, data analysis, and administration and accounting; and (ii) ten
teams based at the field offices located in the statistical offices of the
Provincial Delegations. The location of these field units would depend on
the selection of the sample (it is possible that the sample selection would
leave some provinces out of the process). However, at this stage it is
assumed that five of them, which would be equipped by the proposed Project,
would be located in Douala, Yaounde, Bafoussam, Bamenda and Garoua. The
other sections would be equipped through the Bank-financed Economic
Management Project (PAGE).
12.       Each team would consist of one supervisor, two interviewers, one
anthropometrist, one driver, and one keyboard operator based at the
Provincial Delegation.



129
Annex lOt Page 3 of 3
Execution
13.        The  analysis and the evaluation of the EBC has been taking
place in 1989-90, The first Priority Survey would take place in 1990-91:
preparatory activities including User's Committee meetings from July to
October; field data collection: November-December 1990; data processing,
analysis, publication, and Seminar of presentation: January to March 1991.
The Integrated Survey data collection is planned from August 1991 to 1992
after 4 months of specific preparatory activities. The data processing
would start just after the field operations and the preliminary results
would be published in December 1992. After that the second Priority Survey
a-nd the Community Survey would be conducted in 1993 and the third Priority
Survey in 1994.
Project Support
14.       The Project would allocate costs of US$ 3.3 million for ECAM as
follows (including contingencies, net of taxes):
USS thousand
International Consultants                                  221
Internal Travel                                            734
Equipment                                                  218
Vehicles                                                   215
Training                                                   288
Building Renovation                                         86
Personnel                                                1,113
Operations and Maintenance                                 458
3,333



130
Annex 11s Page 1 of 1
Annex 11
Organizational Structure for the SDA Project
Presidency of the
Republ Ic
I Iterainisterial Council for the
Supervision of the Structural
Adjustment Program
TEOGCAL CWORODIATIEN COAME    (CYC/DSA)
Ministerial Repre.ntativos:                    Others:
MINPAT         MIASSCOF       Preetdent:       Representative - Presldency
MINSANTE       MiPS          Adminisatsrator    Secretary General - fNE
MINEDUC        mIPI.                           Representative - CAA
NSS!RESMINAT
rConqult nts on Or3uiantlteon|              ConsultanGoni
IOf Plannin                            rga   uotin8 
- u- tt   IPRUDEC
Assistant                        Unit Chief
Administratori          ~Project AssC
Accountant
Se¢retry
Provincial
dApCntsttee
Field Agents



Annex 12t Page 1 of 1
Annex 12
Cost Estimates for the SDA Proiect
(USS millie. eqIval-nt)
(includig cettingeOleCe. excluding taxes)
Pl annlg
Co_w.lty  Capacity and    SDA
V.a tn DevelopEent InBorastlos  P'Jeoct
POUCll        Health  Education  Ewlot Dov.1i4t IPOE1                  hs    b*nt          Ttl
ConouteFnt Serviez           -.0 0.                                                  --- A.1f     -    0  1.   T0 9lSB
Training                          0.8        1.6        0.0        0.7        1.6        0.0        0.7        0.1        6.0
Equlpaet and Supplies             a.0       12.8        7.7        0.9        0.0        0.1        0.6        0.1       26.2
Operating Expendlitras            0.1        0.?        0.1        1.1        1.1        0.1        1.2        0.a        4.7
Fuel                              0.1        0.9        0.0        0.2        0.2        0.1        0.2        0.0        1.6
Sub-Projects (PRODEC,FNE,POP)     1.0        0.0        0.0       26.6        0.0        5.0        0.0        0.0       82.6
Salaries                          0.0        0.9        1.0        0.2        0.4        0.0        8.1        0.S        6.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               4.7       19.0        B.8       83.1        6.9        6.9        7.4        1.0       8C.7



132
44
0
to
too
"#  e  8    18. 1   1       '                 I            ,        ,       . 3I  8  I 
__    _     _
14- 
N              -   -  -  -  --  -  ---  - 
-- -----        ----     -- --    -- -  - -  -  -   -- -  - --  -  -  -
0   -    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                L.0
I                                  I It
*                                                                                       a *  *   |   '  'o   ¢, s
Ef ~ ~~~~~~ 'I                                  ij;
I r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
W~~ $'                   *                 i s b             .        ' .
_4 u           2^¢,M¢'@$     
Ii.                              in!4)t;84     I IL
e~ ~~t g     o         3HM                                              s       t
s  ^   I   I            I I  J.                        I w  ¢  P J :  1
s~ ~ ~ ~~6 bX  I,  Di, :&.s"                      I ;a;l  qi4 1         1      1 4
e~~~~~~* _3 ___v__                                                 _   



133
Annex 14, Page 1 of 1
Annex 14
SDA Prolect Procurement
IBRD Procurement Arrangements by Module
(US$ millions)
(including contingencies, excluding taxes)
NOT
ICe    LCB    OiHER  APPL.  TOTAL
Educatlon
- School Okesk                                                   2.2                   2.2
- Teoaching manuals and materials                                1.8                   1.0
Totals                                                  -b      T: 4 0u
EmialoWnt
MTPS Expenditures
Coneultants' services and training                                    0               0.7
- Equipment and vohtele3                                 0.8    0.1                    o.a
- Operating costs                                                        O.t           O.t
FNE Expenditures
- Consultant services                                                   1.4            1.4
- Equipment and vehieles                                 0.2                           0.2
- Operating costs                                                       0.8            0.3
- Vocational Training                                                   1.0            1.0
- Ooods and Services for:
Solf-employment phase 1                                              2.0           2.0
Self-employment phase 2                                              6.5           6.5
Totals                                                    0 6    -     T12            T T
sommunltz Dev-lo mt
- Consultent oerviecA                                                   0.4            0.4
- Goods and services                                                    2.5            2.5
Totals                                                  -W      T       T      U      T
Planning Catcity A Information Base
- Consultants' service  and training                                    0.1            0.1
- Vehicles and equipment                                         0.0                   0.0
- Operating costs                                                       0.1            0.1
Totals Is                                                 0I    0 0            0I
PrgJeet Administration
-Training                                                               0.1            0.1
- Vehicles and equipment                                         0.1                   0.1
- Operating coot                                                        0.8            0.8
Total  a0    0                                                        -U      WX -i4i
Other
7-    Repayment                                                                0.8     0.0
TOTAL                                                    0C 6          T.rT il 6



134
Annex 1S: Page 1 of 1
Annex 15
Estimated Government Cash Flow
(in millions of US1)
FY91 FY92 FY98  FY94 FY9f  FY98 FY97  FY98 FY9D  FYOO
OUTFLOW
Project
A. Population                  0.6  1.2  1.2  1.0  0.8  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
9. Helth                       2.9  C.1  6.0  8.4  1.9  0.0  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
C. Education a Trlaing        1.1  4.1  2.2  0.7  0.8  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
0. Employment                  0.6  5.6  7.5  9.8  7.7  2.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
E. Wo   in D wlopm             0.6   1.0  1.a  1.8    1.1  0.4  0.8   0.8  0.8  0.8
F. Cou_nity Dev.(PROD C)       0.2  0.7  0.9  1.5  1.0  0.7  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
0. Planning Capeity             Info.    1.2   1.2   1.6  1.8  1.4  0.5  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
H. SDA Project Ian             0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
(ioss salaries of curren  staff)-   --   -                             -    -    -
TOTALS                         7.2  19.8  19.9  19.1  16.2   6.1  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2
Debt Servicing
A. I=RD Loan                   0.8  0.6  0.6  0.4  0.4   2.6  2.5  2.6  2.5  2.5
B. Other Donor's Loans         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4
TOTALS                         0.8   0.6  0.5  0.4  0.4  4.8  4.9  4.9  4.0  4.9
am=   sa  am=   -=   s                   mm          u. 00    M
TOTAL OUTFLOIS                 7.5 19.0 20.4  19.5  15.,  9.4  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Donors
A. IBRD                        2.2  5.4  4.5  3.4  8.2  2.8  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
S. Other Donors                4.9  12.4  11.0  6.9  0.4  7.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
TOTALS                         7.1  1t.7  16.1  12.3  11.6  10.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Cost Recovery
TOTALS                         0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  1.1  1.4  1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0
man-                    -     -m          -   mm
TOTAL INFLOWS                  7.1  17.7 18.2  12.9 12.7  11.4  1.0  1.6   1.0  1.0
INTOTAENTAL COS
TOTALS                        -0.4  -2.1  -4.2  -4.8  -2.0  2.0  -4.4  -4.4  -4.4  -4.4



135
Annex 16: Page 1 of 2
Annex 16
Documents in the Proiect File
1.       Etude Economique Conseil, "Installation of Program Budgeting,"
Montreal, July 1989.
2.       Etude Economique Conseil, "Republic of Cameroon, National
Employment Fund, Feasibility Study, Montreal, July 1989.
3.       Institut Panafricain pour le Developpement, 'Coordination des
Actions du Gouvernement, des ONG et des Organismes Internationaux au
Cameroun,' DouaL , Aott 1988.
4.       Ministare du Plan et de l'Am*nagement du Tdrritoire et Programme
des Nations Unies pour le Developpement, "Les Organisations non
Gouvernementales et leur Contribution au Developpement Socio-Economique du
Cameroun,' Yaounde, Juin 1988.
5.       World Bank, Social Dimensions of Adjustment Unit, "Activities of
Non-Governmental Organizations in Cameroon," Washington, March 1989.
6.       World Bank, Social Dimensions of Adjustment Unit, 'Country
Assessment Paper, Cameroon,' Washington, June 1989.
7.       World Bank, Social Dimensions of Adjustment Unit, 'Elements
d'Evaluation de 1'Enqufte Camerounaise aupres des MHnages,' Washington,
April 1989 (in French).
8.       Detailed Cost Tables.
9.       Terms of Reference for:
a)    Study of Business Conditions as they Affect the Formal and
Informal Sectors.
b)    Small and Microenterprise Development Advisor.
c)    Consultant for the Planning Services of the Ministries of
Education, Health, and Social and Women's Affairs.
d)    Multisectoral Action Plan for the Integration of Women in the
Development Process: Education and Vocational Training Sector.
e)    WID Module: Information, Education, and Communication Program.
f)    Study on the Rationalization and Improvement of the Efficiency of
MINASCOF's Urban Outreach Services.



136
Annex 16: Page 2 of 2
10.      Module Operation Plans:
a)    Population
b)    Sant6
c)    Emploi -- FNE
d)    Femmes et Developpement
e)    Organisation et Operation du PRODEC
f)    Enqugte Camerounaise aupras des Menages
g)    Organisation de la Collecte, du Traitement et de l'Analyse de
l'Indice des Prix & la Consommation



M A L I                                           4I't?                                                            i> 
A      N L   G E R                        (.                                                      K r -
A,RN^\  1.-\              =    k, ] -,       LE SUDAN         ,a     er*.
PASO                 )                    xf ?'i C H A D                                                       2
-s-Is-I.  N I G E R I A
4  g   wJ    \  _¢   t      llorlawrwh^                                                   >X.j+gsN*O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'JAMENA
lCENTRAL AFRICAN           t    a      r  '
>     t         <AMEROON\                REPUBLIC    ,.,/ 12                     *0 40 1         *6
C ERCON'\     ,sriMRSrO  20 AG 60 eILtASTSR01200                         160
V ¢a  *   r £REP    Z A IR E   9MILES0    20   40    40   as   100
4 WRS. OF/
Ar~4A'g</s f.K-=     .GABON                                                     N  I G  E R I A                     E     EX   EME
,~~~~~~~~~~~/V                                                   NORD oi
CAME ROON                                                                          vI P            1g            i
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
A     L"octions of PRODEC"s               *  National capitals                                                               D               N.
Regionl Offices                         Province capitols                                  s       -.w . /-Lp  
0  Division capitals                                              /
Paved roads. national               0  Sub-division capitals
-      Unpaved roads, notional              v  District capitals
---Unpoved roads, provincial                o  Other towns
--------Unpoved roads, district           v   Airports
Railroads
-  -- Rivers                              _   Province  boundaries
..  Ports                            --- International boundaries                     If
Setuements with over 5o,ooo poutation In 198S 6                                                  F_,
N             I G E R I A    i                                              ,^ADA9AOU
g<<vz  v5LID-              xi                         ,                   /                 \~NORD-               -----
'$U84orO4 /s  /A  F  R  I CA  N
I Ns p l                 l          rt / ¢_J      \ 0        0 8 ¢ l                           a { '   ~-R E PU B l C
M,>,    ,1 /t oooorvRE   ; a                                                                       o         )      XK   
)   ~ EkodoTi;LKwaW  v,4wn      LoIvdikiu -o1Q rs                                                                      s  i-' tooN1        {  '  /  \
OCEA    N                           no n --  s      N4' 
{IN5llI lt CwNeAl 7t =I PEOPLE'S REP ' ''r
ticsS4/lv i) Z \-°M:~~~~~~~~DE                                          \mbo _- \9(j  
GNEQUATORIAL GUINEA                         GA   O N                              TH   CONGO
-~Source; Natofal DIreCTOrate 01      I CO!iNININAL oUtrorvi    '                       I;s' O F                    HE      CONGOr 
SMtiJstics, eaounde. f      g                           I                                       __  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ __  _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _    __
IINSULAR OtNA



