Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3206 CM
(Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 3, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3206 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated April 27, 1990 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, together with a timetable, designed to address the 
social dimensions of adjustment and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of said actions;
(C)
Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project will be carried out by the National 
Employment Fund (FNE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make  available to FNE a part of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract with the African Development Bank (AfDB) 
for a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to sixteen million dollars 
($16,000,000) approximately to
assist in financing Parts D, E and F of the Project, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and AfDB;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract with the Government of Canada (Canada) 
for a grant (the Canadian Grant) in an amount equivalent to seven million three 
hundred thousand dollars
($7,300,000) approximately to assist in financing Parts E and G of the Project, on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Canadian Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank, as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by Canada;
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract with Japan for a grant (the Japanese 
Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) approximately to 
assist in financing Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
the Bank, as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government of Japan;
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract with other external donors additional 
resources in an aggregate amount equivalent to thirty-one million dollars 
($31,000,000) approximately to assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MINASCOF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for social and 
women's affairs;
(b)
"MINEDUC" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for national 
education;
(c)
"MINFI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance;
 
(d)
"MINPAT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for planning and 
regional development;
(e)
"MINSANTE" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for health;
 
(f)
"MTPS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for labor and social 
security;
(g)
"CTC/DSA" means the Comite Technique de Coordination du Projet Dimensions 
Sociales de l'Ajustement established by the CTC/DSA Decree;
(h)
"CTC/DSA Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 90/635 dated April 5, 
1990, establishing CTC/DSA;
(i)
"FNE" means the Borrower's Fonds National de l'Emploi established 
Page  3
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 90/805 dated April 27, 1990;
(j)
"PRODEC" means the Borrower's Programme de Developpement Communautaire;
 
(k)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FNE pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(l)
"FNE Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 26, 
1989 and June 13, 1989 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(o)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute Financicre 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-one million five 
hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C.1, D.1 (a), D.1 (d), D.2, 
D.3, D.4, F, G.3 and H of the Project, open and maintain in CFA Francs a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Page  4
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period 
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, 
of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as 
the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out;
(i)
Parts A and B of the Project through MINSANTE;
 
(ii)
Part C of the Project through MINEDUC;
 
(iii)
Parts D.3 and D.4 of the Project through MTPS;
 
(iv)
Part E of the Project through MINASCOF;
 
(v)
Part F of the Project through the Cellule du Developpement 
Page  5
Communautaire of 
CTC/DSA;
 
(vi)
Part G of the Project through MINPAT; and
 
(vii)
Part H of the Project through CTC/DSA; and
 
shall cause FNE to carry out Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project; all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories 
(6) and (10) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
available to FNE under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and FNE, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Account in the name of FNE in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of meeting expenditures, which are not externally 
financed, under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project; and
(b)
in addition to the initial amount referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, deposit into FNE Project Account, within fifteen days of the end of each 
fiscal quarter, an amount of CFA Francs equal to the total amount of withdrawals from 
FNE Project Account during such fiscal quarter, provided that the Borrower shall in no 
event be obligated to deposit therein,  pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph 
and of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, an aggregate amount in excess of the 
equivalent of four million seven hundred thousand dollars ($4,700,000).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  6
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FNE to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of FNE. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FNE to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Bank is not satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
carrying out the Program supported by Loan No. 3089 CM (Loan Agreement, as amended 
from time to time, between
the Borrower and the Bank, dated July 17, 1989);
Page  7
(b)
the Bank is not satisfied with the progress made by the Borrower in the 
preparation and implementation of the statement of policy, long-term strategy and 
medium-term action plan for years 1991-1993 for the education sector in accordance 
with Loan No. 2683 CM (Loan Agreement, as amended from time to time, between the 
Borrower and the Bank, dated July 10, 1986);
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been  
suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms 
of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof:
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the members of CTC/DSA have been appointed as well as the Deputy 
Administrator and the accountant;
(b)
the adviser to the Director General of FNE referred to in paragraph 1 (d) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been employed, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
FNE Project Account has been opened and the Borrower has deposited 
therein an amount of one hundred million CFA Francs (CFAF 100,000,000).
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning and regional 
development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and
   Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPAT
8203 KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
B.P. 7176
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CAA
8858 KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jean Missoup
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Education Expenditures
      Part C.1 of the Project
(1)   School desks/benches    2,000,000         100%
(2)   Teaching manuals        1,600,000         100%
      and materials
II.   MTPS Expenditures
      Parts D.3 and D.4
      of the Project
(3)   Consultants'              600,000         100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Equipment and             300,000         100% of foreign
      vehicles                                  expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)   Operating costs           600,000         85%
III.  FNE Expenditures
      Parts D.1 and D.2
      of the Project
(6)   Consultants'            1,200,000         100%
      services for
      Part D.1 (a) of
      the Project
(7)   Equipment and             200,000         100% of foreign
      vehicles for                              expenditures and
      Part D.1 (a)                              85% of local
      of the Project                            expenditures
(8)   Operating costs           300,000         85%
      for Parts D.1 (a)
      and D.2 of the
      Project
(9)   Vocational              1,000,000         100%
      training under
      Part D.1 (b)
      of the Project
      (COIC)
(10)  Goods and ser-                            100%
      vices for
      Part D.1 (d) of
      the Project:
      (a)   Self-employ-       2,000,000
            ment phase 1
      (b)   Self-employ-       6,500,000
Page  10
            ment phase 2
IV.   Community Development
      Expenditures
      Part F of the Project
(11)  Consultants' services      370,000        100%
      for Part F.2 of
      the Project
(12)  Goods and services       2,500,000        50%
      for Part F.1 of
      the Project
V.    Planning Capacity
      and Information Base
      Expenditures
      Part G.3 of the Project
(13)  Consultants' services       50,000        100%
      and training
(14)  Vehicles and equip-         40,000        100% of foreign
      ment                                      expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(15)  Operating costs            100,000        85%
VI.   Project Administration
      Expenditures
      Part H of the Project
(16)  Training                    90,000        100%
(17)  Vehicles and                50,000        100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(18)  Operating costs           250,000         85%
VII.  Other Expenditures
(19)  Refunding of              750,000         Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(20)  Unallocated             1,000,000
                             __________
            TOTAL            21,500,000
                            ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
Page  11
(c)
the term "operating costs" means mission travel and subsistence 
allowances for local and expatriate staff involved in the Project, operation and 
maintenance of Project vehicles and
equipment, and office supplies; and
(d)
the term "COIC" means Cameroon Opportunities Industrialization Center.
 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of Categories (1) and (2), until the Bank has received 
satisfactory detailed lists of materials and equipment for Part C.1 of the Project and 
plans for their procurement and geographic distribution;
(c)
in respect of Categories (9) and (10), until: (i) all conditions 
precedent to the effectiveness of the AfDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled; (ii) 
the Board of Directors of FNE has been constituted; (iii) FNE has adopted its 
organigram and operating procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FNE; and (v) the manager of 
the FNE division responsible for employment and training assistance, the manager of 
the FNE service responsible for self-employment and his adviser have been appointed, 
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
in respect of Category (10) (b), until the Bank has given its approval 
following an evaluation of the first phase of the self-employment program under Part 
D.1 (d) of the Project; and
(e)
in respect of Category (12), until: (i) all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the AfDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled; and (ii) the operating 
guidelines referred to in
paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been adopted for Part F.1 of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower in the implementation 
of its strategy to improve the welfare of less favored segments of the population and 
shelter the interests of the most vulnerable groups from the effects of the economic 
crisis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Population
 
1.
Preparation and adoption of a statement of population policy, including the 
provision of training.
2.
Carrying out of an action program to implement the Borrower's population policy 
(including the provision of equipment, vehicles and supplies, and of training) 
through:
(a)
the strengthening of maternal, child health and family planning services;
 
(b)
the development and improvement of systems for decentralized training and 
supervision, annual evaluation and family planning statistical reporting; and
(c)
support to family planning activities carried out by non-governmental 
organizations.
Part B:
Health
Page  12
1.
Preparation and adoption of a statement of health sector policy and operational 
strategy, including the provision of consultants' services and training.
2.
Carrying out of an action program to implement the Borrower's policy and 
strategy (including the provision of equipment, vehicles and supplies, and of 
training) through:
(a)
the purchase and distribution of medical and pharmaceutical supplies for 
primary health care and first level referral services at the district level;
(b)
the development of an information, education and communication program, 
including the provision of equipment and vehicles, training workshops, and the 
provision of consultants'
services;
(c)
support to the Borrower's program on sexually transmitted 
disease/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (STD/AIDS);
(d)
the improvement of immunization coverage among children and women of 
childbearing age, including the provision of refrigerators and vaccines; and
(e)
the maintenance of health buildings and equipment at the primary level.
 
3.
Strengthening of the planning and programming capabilities of MINSANTE's 
services responsible for planning, program budgeting and statistics, and the 
establishment of a program budgeting system and a budget monitoring process, including 
the provision of consultants' services, training, equipment and vehicles. 
4.
Establishment and operation of a coordination mechamism for coordinating and 
monitoring health activities in the health and population sectors.
Part C:
Education
 
Carrying out of an action program, including the provision of:
(1)
school desks/benches, teaching manuals and materials for about 500 primary 
schools;
(2)
workshop materials and library books and equipment for about 20 technical 
secondary schools; and
(3)
equipment for science laboratories and libraries for about 65 general secondary 
schools.
Part D:
Employment
 
1.
Support to FNE's activities to promote employment relating to:
 
(a)
collection and distribution of information on training and job 
opportunities;
(b)
formal vocational training;
 
(c)
on-the-job training/apprenticeship;
 
(d)
individual initiatives aimed at self-employment; and
 
(e)
support to the creation and expansion of micro-enterprises.
 
2.
Operation of FNE, including the provision of consultants' services, equipment 
and vehicles, and of FNE staff training, and the development of operating procedures.
3.
(a)
Completion of a national manpower survey; carrying out of studies of the 
labor market, including a study of the capacity of existing vocational training 
centers, a study of the feasibility of creating a national voluntary service corps, 
and a study to estimate the job creation potential of the informal sector.
Page  13
(b)
The development of criteria for taking labor content into account in 
appraising investment projects.
4.
Strengthening of the planning capabilities of MTPS, including the provision of 
consultants' services, equipment and vehicles, and of training.
Part E:
Women in Development
 
1.
Preparation and adoption of a statement of policy, incorporating an operational 
strategy and a multisector action plan to ensure the participation of women in the 
economic recovery and growth
process by improving their welfare and ability to respond to economic changes, 
including the provision of consultants' services, vehicles and equipment, and of 
training and seminars.
2.
Carrying out of an information, education and communication program on the 
benefits of effective integration of women in development and on the availability of 
economic activity opportunities made available to women, including the provision of 
consultants' services, vehicles and equipment, and of staff training, and the 
production and distribution of information materials.
3.
Strengthening of MINASCOF support services through:
 
(a)
the rationalization of its urban structures (Maisons de la Femme and 
Centres Sociaux) and the reorientation of their activities to develop skills and 
income-generating schemes and to
provide assistance regarding self-employment; and
(b)
improved assistance to rural women's groups in formulating and managing 
small projects;
including, in the case of above paragraphs (a) and (b), the provision of consultants' 
services and equipment, of staff training, and of seminars for adult women, and the 
production and distribution
of manuals. 
4.
Strengthening of the planning, evaluation and coordination capabilities of 
MINASCOF, and definition and establishment of a system of institutional linkages 
permitting women to be taken into account throughout the public sector, including the 
provision of consultants' services, vehicles and equipment, and of staff training and 
seminars.
Part F:
Community Development
 
1.
Support to grassroot activities, through PRODEC, for the initiation and the 
carrying out of a program of small projects, by individuals, community groups and 
non-governmental organizations,
mostly in urban areas, for:
(a)
small-scale social infrastructure benefitting the community;
 
(b)
social services for the community relating to hygiene, health, education, 
training and nutrition;
(c)
training and management support in simple business skills; and
 
(d)
small-scale income-generating activities.
 
2.
Operation of PRODEC, including the provision of consultants' services, equipment 
and vehicles, and of PRODEC staff training, and the development of operating 
guidelines.
Part G:
Planning Capacity and Information Base
 
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of MINPAT's planning services, particularly to 
take into account social indicators in the elaboration of macro-economic strategies.
Page  14
2.
Strengthening of the capaciy of MINPAT's statistics services, including the 
development of a system for household surveys, the conduct of such surveys and the 
analysis of the results thereof.
3.
Strengthening of the capacity of MINPAT's services responsible for the 
calculation of price indices.
All including, in the case of above paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the provision of 
consultants' services, vehicles and equipment, and of training.
Part H:
Project Administration
 
Operation of CTC/DSA, including the provision of consultants' services, vehicles 
and equipment, and of training.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
October 1, 1995                                 
390,000
April 1, 1996                                   
405,000
October 1, 1996                                 
420,000
April 1, 1997                                   
440,000
October 1, 1997                                 
455,000
April 1, 1998                                   
475,000
October 1, 1998                                 
490,000
April 1, 1999                                   
510,000
October 1, 1999                                 
530,000
April 1, 2000                                   
550,000
October 1, 2000                                 
570,000
April 1, 2001                                   
595,000
October 1, 2001                                 
620,000
April 1, 2002                                   
640,000
October 1, 2002                                 
665,000
April 1, 2003
690,000
October 1, 2003                                 
720,000
April 1, 2004                                   
745,000
October 1, 2004                                 
775,000
April 1, 2005                                   
805,000
October 1, 2005                                 
835,000
April 1, 2006                                   
870,000
October 1, 2006                                 
905,000
April 1, 2007                                   
940,000
October 1, 2007                                 
975,000
April 1, 2008                                        1,015,000
October 1, 2008                                      1,050,000
April 1, 2009                                       1,095,000
October 1, 2009                                     1,135,000
April 1, 2010                                       1,190,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 
and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
Page  15
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not
0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be bulked.
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $4,200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that:
(i)
all bids shall be opened in public and bidders' representatives 
shall be 
allowed to be present;
 
Page  16
(ii)
criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out clearly and 
communicated to all 
bidders; and
 
(iii)
foreign companies shall not be required to be incorporated in 
Cameroon in 
order to participate in the bidding.
 
2.
Shopping:
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may 
be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Project Management
 
(a)
Overall Project Coordination
 
For the purposes of ensuring the overall coordination and implementation of 
Project activities, the Borrower shall operate CTC/DSA as provided in the CDC/DSA 
Decree. Its members shall include senior level representatives of the Presidency,  of 
concerned ministries, of FNE and of Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. An Administrator, 
assisted by an adviser and a Deputy  Administrator, all qualified and experienced, 
shall assume the day-to-day management of CTC/DSA and shall be supported by a Cellule 
de Gestion staffed with a competent accountant and other support staff in adequate 
Page  17
numbers.
(b)
Parts A and B of the Project (Population and Health)
 
(i)
The Population Planning Unit of MINPAT shall have the overall 
responsibility 
for the preparation of the statement of 
population policy, under Part A.1 of 
the Project, which shall 
be reviewed by the National Population Commission.
(ii)
The Technical Unit of MINSANTE shall have the overall 
responsibility for the 
preparation of the statement of health 
sector policy and operational strategy 
under Part B.1 of the 
Project, which shall be reviewed by the Higher Health 
Commission.
(iii)
A coordination mechanism shall be established not later than 
September 30, 
1990 under the supervision of the 
Minister responsible for health. It shall 
include 
representatives of MINSANTE and other ministries concerned. It shall 
ensure the coordination of all activities in the health and population sectors 
and, in particular, Parts A and B of the Project.
(iv)
MINSANTE's services responsible for family and child health shall 
be 
responsible for carrying out the action program under 
Part A.2 of the Project.
(v)
MINSANTE's central services and provincial services shall be 
responsible for 
carrying out the action program under Part B.2 
of the Project under the 
coordination of the Secretary 
General of MINSANTE.
(c)
Part C of the Project (Education)
 
In order to ensure the coordination and implementation of Part C of the Project, 
the Borrower shall establish, not later than September 30, l990, a Comite de Suivi 
chaired by MINEDUC's representative of CTC/DSA. Its members shall include the expert 
adviser of the Cellule d'Animation et de Suivi supporting the Groupe de Pilotage and 
senior level representatives of MINEDUC and other
ministries concerned, particularly MINPAT and MINFI.
(d)
Part D of the Project (Employment)
 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain FNE as a separate legal entity. Its Board of Directors shall include 
members of the public and private sectors. FNE shall be managed by a Director General 
assisted by a Deputy Director General and an adviser, all qualified and experienced. 
The management of FNE shall be assisted by competent support staff in adequate 
numbers.
(e)
Part E of the Project (Women in Development)
 
(i)
MINASCOF shall establish, not later than December 31, 1990, within 
its General 
Secretariat a Planning, Coordination and Evaluation 
Unit which shall have the 
overall responsibility for the 
preparation and the monitoring of the implementation 
of the statement of 
policy under Part E.1 of the Project. Not later than September 
30, 
1991, the Borrower shall: (A) reorient MINASCOF's 
mandate towards a 
conceptual, normative and coordination role on all women's issues, and 
(B) 
establish appropriate institutional linkages to carry 
out this mandate.
(ii)
MINASCOF's service responsible for information and documentation 
shall have the 
responsibility for carrying out the 
information, education and communication 
program under Part 
E.2 of the Project.
(iii)
MINASCOF's service responsible for women's education shall have 
Page  18
the 
responsibility for carrying out Part E.3 of 
the Project.
(f)
Part F of the Project (Community Development) 
 
The coordination and implementation of Part F.1 of the Project for support to 
grassroot activities (PRODEC) shall be entrusted to the Cellule de Developpement 
Communautaire of CTC/DSA at the central level and to provincial committees at the 
provincial level. This Cellule shall be headed by a chief, assisted by a deputy chief, 
both qualified and experienced; it shall be supported by the accountant of CTC/DSA and 
other competent support staff in adequate numbers.
(g)
Part G of the Project (Planning Capacity and Information Base)
 
(i)
With respect to the development and use of the Cameroonian 
household survey 
(ECAM), the Borrower shall establish, not 
later than September 30, 1990, a 
users' committee on 
appropriate terms and conditions.
(ii)
MINPAT's services responsible for statistics shall have the 
overall 
responsibility for the calculation of 
price indices under Part G.3 of the 
Project.
 
2.
Project Execution
(a)
Parts A and B of the Project (Population and Health)
 
(i)
The Borrower shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank 
on the progress of preparation of the 
statements of population policy and 
health sector 
policy. The Borrower shall adopt said statements not later than 
June 30, 1991, after taking into account the Bank's comments, if any, on said 
statements.
(ii)
In the context of its health sector policy and operational 
strategy, the 
Borrower shall: (A) develop and test 
essential generic drugs and cost recovery 
systems and 
introduce said systems thereafter in all public health facilities 
not later than December 31, 1992; (B) ensure that, under the recovery systems, 
proceeds thereof are utilized at the level of each facility, in 
particular to 
replenish essential generic drug supplies; and 
(C) not later than December 31 
of each year, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comments, updated lists 
of essential 
generic drugs for the different levels of services and an 
inventory of the health facilities concerned.
(iii)
The Borrower shall ensure that the program budgeting system and 
the budget 
monitoring system included in Part B.3 of the 
Project are in place, in a 
manner acceptable to the 
Bank, not later than December 31, 1991, in order to 
be utilized 
in the preparation of the 1992-1993 budget for MINSANTE.
(b)
Part D of the Project (Employment)
 
The Borrower shall cause FNE to carry out its operations in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices and appropriate operating procedures.
(c)
Part E of the Project (Women in Development)
 
The Borrower shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank on 
the progress of preparation of the statement of policy, incorporating an operational 
strategy and a multisector plan to enhance the role of women in development. The 
Borrower shall adopt said statement not later than March 31, 1992, after taking into 
account the Bank's comments, if any, on said statement.
(d)
Part F of the Project (Community Development)
 
Page  19
The Borrower shall carry out Part F.1 of the Project for support to grassroot 
activities (PRODEC) in accordance with sound administrative and financial practices 
and operating guidelines for project identification, appraisal, selection and 
supervision, satisfactory to the Bank, which guidelines shall require, inter alia, 
approval by the Administrator of CTC/DSA of any project with
an estimated financing of three million CFA Francs or more out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and, in addition, submission to the Bank for approval of any project with an 
estimated financing of five
million CFA Francs or more out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.
Project Mid-term Review
 
Not later than December 31, 1992, the Borrower and the Bank shall conduct a 
joint review of the progress of the Project and, on the basis of this review, the 
Borrower shall take any measures
deemed appropriate by the Borrower and the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (18) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts C.1, D.1 (a), D.1 (d), D.2, 
D.3, D.4, F, G.3 and H of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to  
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
Page  20
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Parts C.1, D.1 (a), D.1 (d), D.2, D.3, D.4, F, G.3 and H of the 
Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to those Parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts C.1, D.1 (a), D.1 (d), D.2, 
D.3, D.4, F, G.3 and H of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
