                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           Report No: 31466-HR




                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             O NA

                               PROPOSED GRANT FROMTHE
                      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                            INTHE AMOUNT OFU S U SMILLION


                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                             FOR A

                        RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCES PROJECT

                                          May 27,2005




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f their
official duties. Its contents maynot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate EffectiveMay 13, 2005)
                        Currency Unit = HRK
                           HRK5.779 = US$1
                             0.173US$ = HRK 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBA    Cost-Benefit Analysis
CERA   Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency
CLF    Contingent LoanFacility
DSO    DistributionSystemOperator
EPEEF  Environmental Protection andEnergetic Efficiency Fund
EU     EuropeanUnion
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GoC    Government of Croatia
HBOR   Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development)
HEP    Hrvatska Elektropriveda
EIHP   EnergyInstitute HrvojePozar
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INA    IndustrijaNafte
M O    Market Operator
MoELE  MinistryofEconomy, Labour andEntrepreneurship
MoEPPC MinistryofEnvironmental Protection, PhysicalPlanningandConstruction
MWe    Megawatt Electric
MWt    Megawatt-Thermal
NGO    Non-Government Organization
PIP    Project Implementation Plan
PMR    Project ManagementReport
PMU    Project Management Unit
RAEL   Renewable andAppropriateEnergyLaboratory
RE     RenewableEnergy
RERs   Renewable energy resources
TSO    Transmission System Operator
UNDP   UnitedNations Development Program
UNFCCC UnitedNations FrameworkConvention on Climate Change

                       Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
            Country ManagedDirector:         AnandK. Seth
                      Sector Manager:        PeterD.Thomson
                    Task Team Leader:        Peter Johansen

                                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

              CROATIA .RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT   CROATIA


                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

  A.STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                         .....................................................................  1
    1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                   3
    3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                               3

  B.PROJECT DESCRIPTION                   .....................................................................................................    3
    1.  FundingMechanism............................................................................................................               3
    2. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                               4
    3.  Project components ............................................................................................................. 4
    4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                             6
    5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                            7

  C.IMPLEMENTATION               ..............................................................................................................     8
    1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ............................................................................                         8
    2. Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                              8
    3. Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults..................................................................                              9
    4. Sustainability and Replicability..........................................................................................                   9
    5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                            11
    6. Grant conditions andcovenants ........................................................................................                      12

  D.APPRAISAL SUMMARY                    .....................................................................................................     13
    1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                       13
    2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................       15
    3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       15
    4. Social.................................................................................................................................     15
    5.  Environment......................................................................................................................          16
    6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................            17
    7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                      17

  Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................  18

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                .
without World Bank authorization.

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                   .................29
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                      ........................................................................      31

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................        34

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        39

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................       40

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                             .....................................  41

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................        46

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................       51

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        61

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                     .....................................................................       62

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                .................................................................................        64

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................        65

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................         66

Annex 15: Incremental Cost Analysis           .......................................................................................         68

Annex 16: STAP Roster Review         ................................................................................................         71

Map IBRD33394

                                        CROATIA

                 CROATIA - RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCES PROJECT

                                  PROJECTDOCUMENT

                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                          ECSIE

Date: May 26,2005                             Team Leader: Peter Johansen
 Country Director: Anand K. Seth              Sectors: Renewable energy (60%);Power
 Sector ManagerDirector: Peter D.Thomson      (20%);District heating and energy efficiency
Project ID: PO71464                           services (20%)
Focal Area: Climate change                    Themes: Climate change (P);Pollution
 LendingInstrument: GEF Grant                 management and environmental health
                                              (P);Access to urban services andhousing
                                              (P);Vulnerability assessment andmonitoring
                                              (PI
                                              Environmental screening category: Not
                                              Required
                                              Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact
                                  Project Financing Data
  [ ] Loan   [ ] Credit [XI Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00


                   Source                     Local            Foreign            Total
 BORROWEWRECIPIENT                               0.00              0.00               0.00
  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                    0.00              5.50               5.50
  Govt. of Croatia:                              3.00              0.00               3.00
 Total:                                          3.00              5.50               8.50

~~
 Borrower:
 Republic of Croatia

 Responsible Agency:
 HBOR
 Zelinska 3
 Zagreb
  Croatia
  10000
  Tel: +385-1-4591554 Fax: +385-1-4591523

 FY          1                                                                               2013
-               2005 I    2006 I
                            Estimateddisbursements(BankFY/US$m)
                                    2007 I    2008 I    2009 I   2010 I   2011 I   2012 I
 Annual          0.00      1.50      1.50      1.50      1.00     0.10     0.00      0.00     0.00
 Cumulative      0.00      1.50      3.00      4.50      5.40     5.50     5.50      5.50     5.50
 Project implementation period: Start August 31,2005 End: September 30,2009
 Expectedeffectiveness date: August 31,2005
 Expectedclosing date: March 31, 2010
 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 Re$ PAD A.3                                                                        [          No
 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       E ]Yes    IN0
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

 Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
I

 The objective o f the proposed project is to help develop an economically and environmentally
 sustainable market for renewable energy resources inCroatia. Development o f this market will
 support Croatia inits EUaccession efforts. Inaddition, the project will help make Croatia's
 economy less reliant on imported electricity and fossil fuels, reduce overall emissions, leadto a
 higher degree o f local equipment manufacturing, and create an attractive climate for private
 investment inrenewable energy, and generate local industryand employment. The project will in
 principle deal with both the production o f electricity andheat from RER. However, most o f the

1emphasis will be on electricity production (from wind farms andbiomass fired cogeneration
 plants).

 Global Environment objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

 The project's global environment objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a
 continuous basis by overcoming barriers to implementation o f renewable energy. Performance
 indicators for the global objective include:
      0  Reductions incarbon dioxide emissions at the national andproject levels;
      0  Increase the share o f "new" RER innational energy supply.

 Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
 Annex 4

 A GEF Grantwill beusedto fund (i)Market Framework Component o fUS$2.0million; (ii)
                                        a                                                        a
 Project Preparation Component with a Contingent Loan Facility for project development support
 o f US$3.5 million.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10

Inaccordance withWorldBankpolicyon EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP4-01),the
project has been rated Category C. Through the facilitation o f investments inrenewable energy
the project will indirectly result inmajor positive impacts on the environment, interms o f
increased use o f renewable energy resources, reduced air pollution andreduced greenhouse gas
emissions. There i s some potentialreputationalrisk that the Bank faces by virtue o f the fact that
feasibility studies funded by the contingent loan facility may leadto projects that may later have
some negative environmental impact. For example, a wind farm that, through poor
environmental planning, results inavian mortality. However, this will be mitigated through the
inclusion o f environmental assessments following World Bank guidelines as mandatory
components inthe feasibility studies to be supported. Furthermore, the project will support the
MoEPPPC indeveloping general standards for environmental assessments andclearance
procedures that should minimize the risk o f unsatisfactory projects being cleared.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.7

Loadcredit effectiveness:

The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness o f the Grant
Agreement:
    (a)     The Grant ImplementationAgreement betweenthe Ministry o f Finance and HBOR
            has been executed.
    (b)     The Project ImplementationPlan (PIP), satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
            HBOR.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:

FMcovenants
    e   HBORwillmaintain a financial management system both for itselfand the project
        acceptable to the Bank. The HBOR financial statements, SOEs and Special Account will
        be auditedby independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms of reference
        acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit reports together with the
        Management Letter will be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each
        fiscal year.
    0   HBORshall not draw down reserves to cover operatingcosts inconnectionwith this
        project at any time duringproject implementation without the prior written approval o f
        the Bank.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryand sector issues
Croatia has good potential for renewable energy (RE), with a significant resource base, including
reasonably good resources in all technologies and excellent resources in some (e.g., biomass).
Croatia has experience with all technologies, including a small wind farm, and has generally very
good technical manpower. Because Croatia i s likely to be given targets for increased share o f
RE in its energy mix as part of the accession negotiations with the EU, it has an additional
incentive (beyond energy security, local employment, etc.) to generate more clean energy than
the share it has today, which mainly comes from large hydropower plants. Finally, there is
relatively strong awareness inthe country o f environmental issues and the need for action inthis
domain.
Prior to 1980, the country generated a large share o f total energy supply from renewable
resources, especially from biomass and hydropower. This share has declined as the country
moved toward more traditional sources o f generation inthe 198Os, but large hydropower plants
still account for 46 percent o f electricity generation.
The Croatian electricity sector is dominated by the national utility, Hrvatska Elektropriveda
(HEP). The Energy Law allows independent power producers but apart from a small private
wind farm HEP is the only electricity generating company in the country. HEP is also the
transmission and distribution company, operating approximately 22 local distribution areas. The
government i s considering restructuring HEP as part o f an overall energy sector restructuring and
inpreparationfor EUaccession.
The objectives o f the Government o f Croatia for the energy sector, as stated inthe Energy Sector
Development Strategy (January 1999), call for post-war recovery and transition towards energy
security through: (i) efficient energy supply inan environmentally sustainable manner at realistic
but socially acceptable prices; (ii) demonopolization and liberalization o f the energy market; (iii)
fostering competition in the energy market where possible through privatization; (iv)
establishment o f a regulatory framework; and (v) addressing market and institutional failures to
promote energy efficiency and renewable energy resources and to protect the environment.
Croatia meets two thirds o f its energy requirements from domestic production (mainly oil and
gas). However, production is declining and energy imports will need to increase dramatically if
economic recovery i s to be sustained. Croatia will have to pay full international prices for these
imports, and with large investments needed for reconstruction and expansion o f the energy
infrastructure, the financial burden on Government would be high. This burden is best mitigated
through creating an institutional and regulatory environment to attract private financing to the
sector. In addition, the scarce energy resources will have to be used in a way that represents the
highest value to the Croatian economy.
The Government has attempted to address these challenges in an Energy Law, which was
approved in July 2001. The Law provides, inter alia, for the development o f renewable energy
resources and for a minimumshare o f total energy supply to be met from renewable energy. This
market share-based policy would build sustained interest in the clean energy market and market
guarantees for potential clean energy entrants. The current government proposal i s to institute a




                                                    1

minimum share of electricity supply equivalent to 4.5% by 2010. This will be equivalent to
between 225 and 450 MW o f installed RE capacity depending on the capacity factor.'
Since the development o f the energy sector strategy and passage o f the Energy Law, some
changes have occurred in the market but little progress has been made toward achieving the
stated objectives. Current revisions to the Energy Law and the corresponding regulations may
provide a basis for moving forward but this is uncertain. Meanwhile, in the absence o f a clear
framework for renewable energy the development o f RER utilization has been slow even though
some private sector initiatives have taken hold. One wind project o f 6 MW has been built, with
HEP as the buyer under a long-term contract. Local financial institutions have shown interest
and one has financed the mentionedwindproject2. No projects o fnote for utilization o fbiomass,
small hydro or other RERshavebeen developed.

Foreign and local private capital is currently waiting for clear signals from the government with
regard to pricing and other regulations in order to begin investing in earnest. It is unlikely that
without private investment the Government will be able to meet its own targets for RE
penetration as well as the targets likely to be set as part o f the EU accession negotiations. The
market for wind energy i s expected to be very competitive with both foreign and local
developers poised to take advantage o f clearer rules and financial incentives as foreseen by the
government. The most promising market for biomass related projects is expected to consist o f
existing large wood processing plants who have own process heat demand and who would be
interested in investing in a wood waste fired cogeneration plant or who would accept a third
party financing or leasing arrangement.

It is also expected that there will be good potential for small cogeneration or heat-only boilers
based on wood residues replacing or supplementing conventional boiler technology in existing
municipal heat networks. For the projects where heat needs to be sold to a third party or a public
heat network there are many legal and organizational complications which could constrain the
market development. This market is likely to develop at a slower pace with some o f the early
change agents likely to be non-Croatian project developers exporting successful concepts from
countries like Germany and Austria.

In Appendix A to Annex 1 a pipeline o f wind and biomass projects has been compiled which
demonstrates a significant potential.
The project will help Croatia's Government meet its international environmental obligations and
has beenendorsed by the GEF focal point.




'Windenergy     plants typically have capacity factors around 25% which would result inthe higher capacity estimate,
whereas biomass cogeneration plants canbe expected to deliver power at a capacity factor around o f 50% which
would result inthe lower capacity estimate.
* This project was financed because the developer has a strong balance sheet and was able and willing to putup
sufficient collateral. This will not be the case for most developers, which indicates limited replicability under the
present conditions.


                                                            2

Croatia signed the UNFramework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) on June 11,1992
andratifiedit on April 8, 1996. It completed the first national communicationon climate change
activities inDecember 2001, which was submittedto the UNFCCC on February 7,2002.
Croatia's National Environmental Strategy with Action Plan (NEAP), completed in2001, calls
for incorporating environmental protectioncosts inenergy prices, encouraging the use o f
environmentally friendly fuels inthermal and electrical energy generation, and investing in
energy efficiency.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement
The GEF support is critical inhelping establishing an enabling framework and opening a market
for RER technologies. The GEF support will focus on overcoming barriers to development o f
RERthrough commercially sustainable activities. Without GEF participation, private developers
will be less likely or unable to develop and finance projects; and without GEF participation there
will be no significant resources to build knowledge about renewable energy among
entrepreneurs, utility officials and employees, commercial banks, local government, and other
stakeholders. Ultimately, GEF support will lead to sustainable, long-term reductions in
greenhouse gas emissions and help Croatiajoin modern industrializednations inefforts to reduce
global pollutants. GEF financial support and Bank implementation efforts will also help create
the framework that will allow Croatia to achieve its future EU-mandated renewable energy
supply targets quicker or for more ambitious targets to be set duringthe upcoming negotiations.
The Government has created a pool o f financial resources through a law on pollution tax. These
funds, along with private capital, can provide the necessary financial resources for RER
implementation ifusedcorrectly. The World Bank will be able to add needed capacity, expertise
and advice at a critical juncture. The Bank's assistance will support development o f rational
secondary legislation, clear approval procedures, a framework for use o f pollution tax receipts,
and a pipeline o f projects for investment. These market conditioning and project preparation
activities will help remove barriers to the sector in a relatively short period and allow for
development o fthe market.


3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes
The Project i s consistent with the objectives o f GEF Operational Program 6: Promoting the
Adoption o f Renewable Energyby Removing Barriers andReducing Implementation Costs. The
Project addresses the objectives in Section 6.4 o f OP6 by: a) removing barriers to use o f
commercial or near commercial renewable energy technologies; and b) reducing any additional
implementation costs that result from a lack o f practical experience, low market volumes, or
from dispersed nature o f applications.
A further objective o f the project is to support Croatia's future accession to the EuropeanUnion,
through support inachieving a significant share o f energy supply from renewable energy.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. FundingMechanism




                                                  3

A GEF Grant will be usedto fund (i)Market Framework Componento fUS$2.0 million; (ii)
                                         a                                                     a
Project Preparation Component with a Contingent Loan Facility for project development
support, o fUS$3.5 million.

2. Project development objective and key indicators
The project's global environment objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a
continuous basis by overcoming barriers to implementation o f renewable energy. Performance
indicators for the global objective include:

    0  Reductions incarbon dioxide emissions at the national andproject levels;
    0  Increased share o f "new" RER innational energy supply.
The development objective o f the proposed project is to help develop an economically and
environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy resources in Croatia. Development o f
this market will support Croatia inits EUaccession efforts.
The project will in principle target both the production o f electricity and heat from RER.
However, most o f the emphasis will be on electricity production (from wind farms and biomass
fired cogenerationplants).
The performance indicators used to justify Development Objectives ratings during supervision
include:

    e  Introduction o f an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RER based power
       and heat production (including tariff design, sub-laws on grid code, licensing and
       permitting procedures, training o f stakeholders); and
    0  Total number o f RER projects reaching financial closure as a result o f CLF including the
       capacity installed (MW) and amount of electricity and heat generated (MWh).
The performance indicators used to justify Implementation Progress ratings during supervision
include:

    0  Numberoftraining events completed;
    0  Completion of TA assignments relating to enabling framework and information
       dissemination; and
    0  Numbero fcontingent loans signed for RERfeasibility studies.

3. Project components
The project will achieve the objectives by:
        1) Overcomingthe barriers to market development, including:
                a. legal (e.g., lack o f enabling policy and legal framework, inadequate planning
                   capacity,   unclear permitting and licensing procedures,        unclear land
                   ownership);
                b. financial (e.g., lack o f understanding o f renewable energy in banking and
                   business community, lack o f risk capital); and

                c. technical (e.g., potential strain on transmission system).




                                                   4

       2) Providing assistance to confirm market potential,               build knowledge and
            implementation capacity, streamline procedures, monitor compliance with minimum
            share targets, and inform the public.
Implementation o f the project will include two components:
Market Framework (GEF grant of US$2.0 million). This component will comprise technical
assistance focused on supporting the Government in designing and implementing policy and
secondary legislation on the inclusion o f RE in the electricity sector. The component will also
include support to the market operator (MO), distribution system operator (DSO), transmission
system operator (TSO), Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (CERA), and local governments in
streamlining the permitting process. Technical assistance will be comprised primarily o f legal
and technical support and advice to the institutions and government entities involved in creating
the regulatory framework for the sector. Capacity building within the same institutions will be
required to implement the new regulations and system.              A monitoring, evaluation and
information dissemination subcomponent i s included, along with financial support for the Project
Management Unit. Additional beneficiaries will include the Ministry o f Economy, Labour and
Entrepreneurship (MoELE), Ministry o f Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and
Construction (MoEPPPC), the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF),
HEP (in its capacity as TSO and DSO), NGOs, the banking community, policy-makers,
regulatory authority, andprivate developers.
Project Preparation (GEF Contingent Loan of US$2.0million and grant of US$1.5million; total
US$3.5 million). The contingent loan mechanism and supporting activities will be used to
identify candidate projects for investment and to cover initial project development cost
(feasibility studies). The contingent loan facility (US$2.0 million) will provide loans to qualified
project developers on a cost-sharing basis. The loans will be capitalized inthe project financing
and repaid, or if the projects do not move to implementation the contingent loan will be
converted to a grant. Funds that are recovered will be recycled and used in future projects. In
addition to and separate from the contingent loan facility, US$1.5 million will be used for project
development and project investment support.          Project development support will focus on
development o f a sustainable pipeline o f potential projects that can provide deal flow for EPEEF
and the contingent loan facility.     This will be facilitated by creation o f renewable energy
advisory facilities that will provide information and know-how to private developers and
equipment suppliers. Project investment support will include capacity building and financial
advice to EPEEF, commercial banks and municipal finance authorities. It is the intention to
provide national best practice guidelines to minimize the possibility o f developers `re-inventing
the wheel'. This component will also comprise development o f a stakeholder management
strategy that will allow stakeholder views to be included early on within the development of
specific projects.
Totalproject costs. The total project costs and financing plan are shown below.




                                                  5

Table 1:FinancingPlan(US$ million)




        *) The ensuing project investments (estimated at around US$120 million) are not regarded as an integral
        component of the project and are therefore not part of the financing plan. However, these investments are
        expected to take place as a direct result of the project preparation activities o f Component 2 based on
        financing from EPEEF, HBOR, local banks and other commercial sources.
        **) The contribution fromEPEEFisnot for the specific project butfor the broader program.

4. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

For the Market Framework Component
Several successful renewable energy tariff systems have been developed in Europe, both for
wind and biomass. Experience inGermany, Denmark and Austria have shown the benefits o f a
feed-in tariff structure interms o f rapidly increasing renewable energy capacity inthe system. In
Austria, the differentiation o f use o f feed-in tariffs for electricity and capital subsidies for heat
has proved successful.

Financial and contract training will be based on project finance-based programs, some o f which
have been sponsored by the U.S. Agency for International Development. Training in wind
energy use and interconnectionwill draw on examples o f training programs for the wind industry
in countries with large installations of wind energy, such as Germany and Denmark, or
laboratories such as the National Renewable EnergyLaboratory inthe United States.
For the Project Preparation Component

Numerous programs have been developed to support early-stage project development funding
through use o f contingent loans, including: USAID-funded programs have disbursed numerous
grants on a cost-sharing basis to renewable energy developers in the Philippines, Indonesia,
Guatemala, and Brazil among others. Other national programs include cost-sharing grants in
India for biomass cogeneration, sponsored by the Ministry o f Non-Conventional Energy Sources.
While these programs have stimulated development o f projects and had some successes
(especially in India), some problems have arisen where grants were made prior to establishment
o f the necessary regulatory and legal framework, therefore projects produced good feasibility
studies but had little chance o f commercial success because other barriers, such as lack o f clear
pricing policy, had not been resolved.           In addition, some programs, like the USAID funds


                                                        6

managed by IFREE, did not apply standard due diligence procedures, resulting in high default
rates. Finally, a UNDP-implemented GEF project in the Caribbean (Caribbean Renewable
Energy Development Program) has a contingent loan facility with similar parameters as the
proposed facility. However, the UNDP project has not yet been implemented.


5. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection

An equity fund or related investment fund to finance demonstration and follow-on projects was
originally considered for the project. This component was removed for several reasons. From
the time o f project conception to now, the Croatian market has changed considerably and the
country now has fairly well-functioning financial markets. Most wind developers have noted
that obtaining equity finance should not be a problem and the banking sector has liquidity and an
increasing willingness to finance projects. There are several foreign developers and investors
interested in investing in qualified projects, assuming the legal framework is clear. Inaddition,
the setup and management o f an equity hnd is very complex, and there is no clear capability o f
managing such a fund within institutions such as HBOR and EPEEF. A similar fund set up by
UNDP in Slovenia for biomass project investment has encountered several legal hurdles,
delaying deployment and creating confusion inthe market. Also inSlovenia the small size o f the
fund has presented a problem; this would havepresentedproblems inCroatia as well, and would
require significant additional work and time to attract additional donor funds.

The use o f a GEF grant as capital subsidy was considered and rejected because it will not likely
stimulate any development o f a sustainable market.

An IBRD loan was initially considered to finance demonstration projects. However, this was
excluded from the project and private sector commercial bank loans were considered instead.
The rationale is that Croatian banks now have adequate liquidity and show increased interest in
financing RERprojects.

Among the technologies reviewed for financing as demonstration projects, small hydro power
was rejected for several reasons, including extremely long development process, environmental
impact risk - including location in sensitive preserved areas, and local and NGO opposition to
development. As an alternative, the Market Framework component will assess the environmental
impact and public acceptance for small hydro resources in general and for a group o f potential
sites in particular. The objective o f this is to prepare the selected group o f potential sites for
further development by the private sector after these pass the level o f scrutiny that would ensure
public acceptance.

Other technology applications considered less likely candidates for support from the project
include off-grid wind and solar photovoltaics. Impact on the country will be increased through
focus on grid-connected applications, and will also focus the project on removal o f the barriers
which are most problematic for renewable energy currently. Biomass cogeneration at captive
locations was considered the best alternative for that resource, because o f complications involved
with collection o f diverse biomass fuels from different areas for one central plant. Rather, fuel
generated on site (such as wood-waste from a sawmill) and under the control o f the
developer/investor/steam host was considered more likely to succeed, and thus stimulate the



                                                  7

market in the near term. Geothermal generation was rejected because o f the predominance o f
Industrija Nafte (INA, the national oil and gas company) in the sector, and the need to focus on
projects likely to be developed byprivate sector entities.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(if applicable)

MoELE will be a key partner and beneficiary, and MoEPPPC will be a beneficiary o f TA
regarding streamlining and enforcing o f rules for environmental assessments o f wind and
biomass projects. EPEEF will be a beneficiary and will be responsible for the technical due
diligence in connection with the contingent loan facility. The future Market Operator
(independent from HEP), the regulator (CERA) and HEP will all be key partners in the
project. HEP will be a beneficiary o f the project in its role as TSO/DSO, but it will not be
directly involved in the institutional set up. Other partners will include private sector
developers and localprivate sector banks, both o f whom will co-finance the projects.


2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
Implementationarrangements
HBOR
As sole implementing agency, HBOR will coordinate the implementation o f the overall
project. HBOR i s a state-owned bank established in 1992 on the basis o f a law enacted by
the Croatian Parliament. HBOR operates within the Croatian banking systems and plays the
role o f a development and export bank with the objective o f financing the reconstruction and
development o f the Croatian economy. HBOR i s currently managing the IBRD-financed
Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project and a component o f the Energy Efficiency
Project. External consultants will assist HBOR.
The primary reasons for choosing HBOR as implementing agency include:

    0    As the primary bank concerned with economic development in Croatia, HBOR
         understands issues related to market development and is already designated by the
         government to play a role as financial intermediator inthe RER sector;
         HBOR has implemented and managed several large World Bank loans, and is familiar
         with World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
HBOR will set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) and will operate the Contingent Loan
Facility. The P M Uwill coordinate all components and manage the technical assistance activities.
The PMUwill report to the Bank and the MoELE.
EPEEF
EPEEF will co-finance pre-investment activities mainly through support to a renewable energy
advisory facility and financial participation in the Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) intended to
support pre-investment studies. EPEEFwill also be responsible for the technical due diligence in
connectionwith the CLF.
Other partners



                                                  8

NGOs are expectedto carry out information disseminationactivities and provide monitoring and
evaluation services. Local businesses will carry out project development, financing, and
implementation. Consultants will prepare resource assessments and feasibility studies. Many
project stakeholders, including the local banks, will benefit    from the training activities. Local
banks will play key roles instructuring project finance for demonstration and follow-on projects.
HEP is now in transition and it will not be clear exactly what role they can play before the
ongoing power sector restructuringi s complete. For this reason HEP has not been mentioned as a
main implementation partner. However, HEP, in its capacity as the TSO and DSO, will need to
be involved in discussing the streamlining o f procedures, interconnection agreements, and the
recognition o f REplants as "privileged producers" with priority dispatch privileges.
CERA will be an especially important partner and beneficiary        because o f its ongoing role in
regulating the market. CERA will have responsibility for issuing, revoking and monitoring
licenses for the carrying out o f energy activities; giving opinions to the MoELE on the tariff and
the system charge for RE, and on the stranded costs charge; issuing decisions granting the status
o f eligible producers; monitoring objective, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions and
connection charges for new producers, especially taking into accounts costs andbenefits of RES,
distributed generation and cogeneration, etc.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

Proposed Activities. Several components o f the technical assistance involve dissemination o f
project results and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders nationwide. The planned development o f
renewable energy advisory facilities will be a critical part o f this effort. The demonstration
projects will provide valuable information for many stakeholders, and the results and
performance o f these projects will be monitored closely so as to inform the design and
implementation o f future renewable energy projects.

Performance indicators described inSection B.3 will be used to monitor the project performance.
Targets for the indicators will be developed during the appraisal, based on information provided
by the consultants. HBOR, the implementing agency, will be responsible for monitoring the
outcomes and results o f the project, and through NGOs, will disseminate this information using
technical assistance funding.

4. Sustainability and Replicability

Sustainability
The project will contribute to the sustainability o f renewable energy supply in Croatia by: (i)
supporting the creation and implementation o f the enabling legislation; (ii) providing knowledge
and buildingcapacity among decision-makers and market participants for a better understanding
and acceptance of renewable energy; (iii)      supporting the creation o f an attractive climate for
private investment that will entice multiple market participants to seek business opportunities in
renewable energy; and (iv) providing a pipeline o f well-prepared projects and the structure and
network for continued development o f such projects.
Project sustainability will depend heavily on having an effective and enforceable policy and legal
framework that would require a minimum share of renewable energy. The project will support


                                                   9

the Government in developing this framework during the early part o f project implementation.
To ensure sustainability, technical assistancewill also be provided to the regulatory authority and
other local institutions to provide effective regulation and policy oversight, monitor compliance,
evaluate market transformation, recommend corrective actions and inform the public. Inaddition,
sustained commitment to and compliance with domestic legislation requiring a minimum share
o f RER will be driven by the need for compliance with EU directives to gain EU accession, and
Croatia's eventual commitment to international protocols (e.g., Kyoto).
The project preparation sub-components will ensure a continued flow o f well-prepared projects,
with the participation o f renewable energy advisory facilities and a strong network o f industry
participants. Private developers will be supported through co-financing o f early-stage costs o f
renewable energy projects with contingent loans.
The proposed project will be sustainable because it requires participation by independent actors -
financial institutions, renewable energy equipment and service providers, project developers, and
the utility buyer - who are pursuing commercially viable development o f the renewable energy
market, with each actor retaining the specific project risk within its core business competency.
Project activity in Croatia will be replicated on a commercial basis after the GEF program ends.
Lending to project developers should continue to grow as financial intermediaries gain
experience with their loanportfolios and the risks associated with technology and operations.


Exit Strategy
All GEF funding disbursed to HBORwill remain inCroatia after project completion. A review
o f project progress will be made in Year 3, to determine if (i) is sufficient demand for
                                                                       there
contingent loan funds; and (ii)   if there is a sufficient level of deals generated through project
preparation activities.

Funds that are disbursed through contingent loans will remain in Croatia.                Some o f the
contingent loans will be forgiven; others will be repaid and recycled.          If, by the end of the
project, a balance o f recycled funds remains, it is the intent that the balance will be granted to the
EPEEFinorder to be used for continued REproject preparationor other GEFrelated activities

Replicability
The features o f the project that allow replication are technology, pre-investment support
mechanisms, reduction indevelopment time and cost, and information sharing. Specifically:
During implementation, the project will use technologies that: (i) commercially proven and
                                                                         are
widely available in Western Europe; (ii)have excellent prospects for long-term market
penetration once the identified barriers are overcome; (iii)      can be produced locally, to ensure
wider acceptance and public support; and (iv) have the capacity to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. The pre-investment support mechanisms (contingent loans) will boost short-term
demand and promote early commercialization and in-country replication o f renewable resources.
 Streamlining procedures and refining them, combined with capacity building among
 stakeholders will reduce development time and costs. The public access to reliable and high
quality data on resource, performance, cost-effectiveness, etc., will enable market knowledge and
growth.




                                                  10

The Croatian experience is expected to demonstrate that, as the energy sector reforms with
incentives for renewables are implemented and as risk capital is made available, renewable
energy technologies have high prospects for long-term market penetration and for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. This experience i s also expected to demonstrate the long-term
economic and environmental benefits o f renewable energy investments; the benefits o f a 'win-
win' relationship between the Market Operator, independent energy providers and lenders,
through long-term power purchase contracts; the effects o f streamlining procedural issues
controlled by the state; and the role o f NGOs and benefits o f public participation in local energy
planning.
To the extent that this project is successful, the Croatian experience can be easily tailored to other
countries o f the Region (for example other EU accession countries) having renewable resource
potential, where similar Government commitment exists but policy and financing barriers
hamper implementation, and where policy reforms can pave the way for reduced costs andpublic
acceptance o f renewable energy. To enhance the replicability o f the project, GEF technical
assistance will support dissemination o f project outcomes through appropriate channels,
including regional workshops involving bilateral and multilateral donors, country officials and
private investors. The replication strategy beyond Croatia will be firmed up during project
preparation.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

The most substantial risk will come from the political and regulatory environment. The pace o f
energy sector reform has been slow and substantial delays have been experienced inthe efforts to
create a framework for investments in RER. It remains uncertain exactly how power sector
restructuring will impact small RER IPPs both in terms o f signing o f long-term Power Purchase
Agreements and securing dispatch priority for "preferred producers". The mitigation measure is
to address these problems up front through TNcapacity buildingand for the World Bank to stay
involved as a partner in the policy dialogue. A table o f the main risks and the suggested
mitigationmeasures is presented below:




                                                   11

 Risk                               Risk rating


 Government's                                      0    Buildcapacity and develop procedures to streamline
 commitment to national           Substantial*)         decisions affecting RER implementation
 policy for renewables and                              Prospect for EUaccession and the related Kyoto Protocol
 to reducing bottlenecks in                             adherence will maintainpressure for energy sector reform
 statellocal decision-                                  and for compliance with EUdirectives
 malung fails over time                            0    Maintainpolicy dialog with all stakeholders to ensure
                                                        commitment to reform
 ~
 The power sector                 Substantial      0    Buildcapacity with the newpower sector entities such as the
 restructuringwill be slow                              MO, TSO and DSO.
 and inadequate leaving
 RERinvestors without
 proper enabling
 framework
 The private sector will not Modest                     Support legislation to ensure adequate feed-in tariffs.
 be willing to invest inRE                              Technical assistance to EPEEF and HBORto enable optimal
 projects                                               financial intermediationthrough appropriate financial support
                                                        instruments
 Private sector is not            High             0    Guarantee market for clean energy entrants through minimum
 willing or able to finance                             share policy
  development costs                                0    Assist in streamlining procedures for RER development and
                                                        implementation
 Contracts betweenproject Substantial              0    Use best practices indevelopment of contracts, due diligence
 partners are not honored,                              and risk assessment
 andprojects do not operate
 sost-effectively
 EPEEF does not operate           Substantial           Technical assistance support to EPEEF, especially with regard
 Effectively; does not                                  to providing additional internal capacity for REinvestments;
 receive funds and does not                        0    Ensure adequate deal flow through project preparation
 place funds                                            activities.
                                                   0    Involve EPEEF inproject design
 `) While it is certainly possible that the government's commitment to a national policy will waiver, thus delaying or
slowing increased penetration o f renewable energy, it is not likely to have a significant impact, as there is no real
implementation risk inthis project. Being focused o n technical assistance the project will in itself be mitigating this
risk.

The overall risk rating for the project is: Substantial

6. Grant conditionsand covenants

FMcovenants
HBORwill maintain a financial management systemboth for itself andthe project acceptable to
the Bank. The HBOR financial statements, SOEs and Special Account will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audited statements and audit reports together with the Management Letter will be
provided to the Bank within six months ofthe end o f each fiscal year.



                                                           12

HBORshall not draw downreserves to cover operating costs inconnectionwith this project at
any time duringproject implementationwithout the prior written approval o f the Bank.


Effectiveness Conditions.

The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness o f the Grant
Agreement:

(a)     The Grant ImplementationAgreement between the GoC andHBORhas beenexecuted.

(b)     The Project Implementation Plan (PIP), satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
        HBORandEPEEF.
DisbursementCondition
Disbursements shall not be made for expenditures under Part B o f the project (the CLF) before
the EPEEF-HBOR Grant Implementation Agreement between EPEEF and HBOR has been
executed.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancialanalyses


ECONOMIC
Economic evaluation methodology:
[XICost-benefit           [ ] Cost effectiveness        [XIIncrementalcost               [ ] Other [specify]
The proposed project will support the implementation o f a national policy and legal framework
that will require a minimumshare o f electricity supply to be met from renewable energy sources.
The determination by the Government o f the minimum share for renewable energy has been
supported by a cost-benefit analysis (CBA)3 which include local and global externality costs in
the cost o f conventional generation. The proposed minimum share is 4.5% o f electricity supply
by 2010 which corresponds to between 225 and 450 MW o f installed RE capacity depending on
the capacity factor. This i s a little higher than recommendations o f the C B A which advocates a
target in the range o f 68 to 276 MW but probably reflects concerns that the EU will be
unfavorable to a target under 4% o f electricity supply. The 4.5% target remains within the upper
boundary set by the CBA at 553MW. The Executive Summary o f the C B A is attached at the end
ofAnnex 9.4
The indirect, medium term impact o f the project (in this context understood as project that are
implemented after having received support from the Contingent Loan facility) is expected to be
the implementation o f 80 MW wind farms and 20 MW, biomass fired cogeneration plants. This
will constitute around 1/3 o f the government target for 2010. The remaining RE development is
expected to come from projects that will be implemented without direct support from the GEF


 "Cost Benefit Analysis for Renewable Energy inCroatia," Frontier Economics, March2003.
 When reading this, pleasebe aware that the CBA mentions "installed capacity" when referring to the EUtargets
which is incorrect: the EUtargets refer to electric power production (i.e. GWh). Furthermore the EUaverage target
for 2010 is not 12% but 22%.


                                                          13

Contingent Loan Facility but supported from the general market framework put in place by the
project.

The incremental cost analysis i s presented in Annex 15. A preliminary estimate o f the cost
effectiveness o f the GEF financing (excluding replication potential) is about US$3.5 per ton o f
c02.

FINANCIAL
Financial Aspects of the Contingent Loan Facility
The Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) will provide 50% cost-share loans to eligible developers o f
renewable energy projects. The initial capital base o f the loan facility will be US$2.0 million.
The average loan size will be US$150,000, and will earn interest at a rate o f 5 percent. Total
interest earned during the project period is about US$190,000, or 95% o f operating costs. The
expected average loanperiod i s one year, with interest payments only. Principal will be repaid at
closing of project financing for successful projects; unsuccessful projects will have the loan
converted to a grant and will not be expected to be repaid. Repaid loans can be re-invested in
future projects. At the end o f Year 7, a balance o f approximately US$275,000 will remain.
These funds could be loaned to new projects or used for other purposes, depending on what is
agreed between the Government of Croatia and the World Bank (on behalfo f GEF).
From the GEF grant plus recycled loans, the CLF should be able to make 24 loans over the
project period, assuming a failure rate o f about 54%. Of the 24 loans, 11will be repaid and 13
will be forgiven or converted to grants. The total value o f loans placed will be US$3.6 million,
representing about US$7.2 million infeasibility study and other development costs. From the 11
successful projects, four are expected to be wind projects and seven biomass projects. The total
amount invested in these 11 projects is estimated at US$120.9 million.           (See Annex 9 for
details.)


EPEEF Co-Jinancing
EPEEF intends to co-finance both the renewable energy advisory facility (US$0.5 million) and
the CLF (US$2.5 million). The co-financing will be complementary to the GEF financing and is
envisaged to take the form o f grants for pre-feasibility studies and extension o f the renewable
energy advisory facility to provide outreach outside o f Zagreb; and extending the scope o f the
CLF by either (i)  topping up the contingent loan element from 50% to e.g. 75% for certain types
o f developers (e.g. public entities), (ii)
                                         reimbursing the GEF CLF for the loans that are converted
into grants, (iii)taking over the reimbursement obligation from the project developer o f certain
types o f projects thereby turning the CLF into a pure grant facility, or (iv) extending the CLF to
include other relevant technologies, such as geothermal heating.
Details on the EPEEF co-financing will be agreed during the preparation o f the Project
ImplementationPlan (PIP).


HBOR Operating Costs




                                                 14

HBOR operating costs will include personnel, overhead and direct costs for the Project
Management Unit (PMU). A budget o f US$300,000 for the four-year period has been allocated
to cover PMUcosts.

Fiscal Impact
The project has no fiscal impact for the Government as there i s no borrowing by the Government
and the investment projects are financed   on a commercial basis.


2. Technical
The project will employ proven, commercially viable renewable energy equipment and
technologies. Technical issues that are o f concern to HEP and others include interconnection o f
distributed energy into the grid (grid stability); and operation and maintenance o f wind power
plants. These issues will be addressedby TA during implementation.


3. Fiduciary
Legal and Implementation Arrangements
The Government o f Croatia (GoC) will be the recipient o f the US$5.5 million grant. A Grant
Agreement will be signed between the World Bank and the GoC. HBOR will act on behalf o f
the GoC as Implementing Agency. A GEF Grant Implementation Agreement will be signed
between GoC and HBOR and a Project Agreement between the World Bank and HBOR. These
legal documents will specify the various tasks and responsibilities o f HBOR. HBOR will
assume overall fiduciary responsibilities for the use o fthe GEF grant funds.
Thefinancial management arrangements o f the project must be accepted by the World Bank
prior to Board Presentation. The agreed action plan to be prepared by HBOR is presented in
Anex 7 and includes, inter alia, implementation o f the project IT system, and preparation o f the
financial section inthe Project ImplementationPlan.
To manage the entire project, HBOR will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU). The
PMU will coordinate all components and manage the technical assistance activities. The PMU
will report to the Bank andthe MoELE.

4. Social
There are no critical social issues related to the project.
A Stakeholder Planto inform the public andto engage key stakeholders was initiated during
project preparationwith bothpublic consultations and individual discussions with a wide range
o f stakeholders including environmental NGOs, REtechnology providers, local academia, local
energy consultants and small energy businesses.




                                                   15

Public participation activities will continue during project implementation and will include: (a)
brochures specific to different target groups, (b) a general project website; and (c) selected
project specific documentation showing the economic, energy and environmental benefits of
selected pilot projects. As information about the successful implementation o f renewable energy
projects becomes available, it is expected that more and more stakeholders will come forward
and propose their own projects for implementation, thus reinforcing the demand-based project
concept.
Duringmid-term review, the World Bank,HBORandEPEEFwill review the achievements so
far, particularly regarding choice o f sectors to support. Stakeholder consultations will provide
important inputs into decision making about the course o f action duringthe second part o f
project implementation.
NGOs are expected to carry out information dissemination activities and provide monitoring and
evaluation services. Many project stakeholders, including the local banks, will benefit from the
training activities.
5. Environment
1. Environmental issues. Through the facilitation o f investments in renewable energy the
    project will indirectly result in major positive impacts on the environment, in terms of
    increased use o f renewable energy resources, reduced air pollution and reduced greenhouse
    gas emissions. There is some potential reputational risk that the Bank faces by virtue o f the
    fact that feasibility studies funded by the contingent loan facility may lead to projects that
    may later have some negative environmental impact. For example, a wind farm could,
    through poor environmental planning, result in avian mortality. However, this will be
    mitigated through the inclusion o f environmental assessments following World Bank
    guideline as mandatory components in the feasibility studies to be supported. Furthermore,
    the project will support the MoEPPPC in developing general standards for environmental
    assessments and clearance procedures that should minimize the risk o f poor projects being
    cleared.
2. Environment category: C
3. Justificationhationale for category rating: The project only finances technical assistance and
     feasibility studies, resource assessments etc. The project itself will lead to substantial
    reduction o f the use o f fossil fuels inCroatia.
4. Status o f Category Assessment: Not applicable
5. Proposed actions. None
6. Status o f any other environmental studies: Not applicable
7. Local grouus and NGOs consulted: See section C.2
8. Resettlement: None
9. Borrower permissionto release EA:Not applicable
10. Other remarks: None




                                                   16

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                      Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                         [I                   [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                      [I                    [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                         [I                    [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                             [I                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                              [I                   Ex1
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                             [I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                              [I                   [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                      [I                   [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                         [I                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                               [I                   [XI


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The project is ready for implementation.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                             17

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
CROATIA RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCES PROJECT
              -

Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
Document number: 19280 HR                                Date o f latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1999
CAS Progress Report: August 22,2001
One o f the objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia (and updated in.the
White Paper prepared for the Government in 2000) is to make the institutional changes and
investments needed to ensure renewable energy supply in an environmentally sustainable manner
at realistic but socially acceptable prices. The project will support this objective by:

    0   Creating the enabling policy framework to address market and institutional failures,
        promote renewable energy andprotect the environment;
    0   Increasing renewable energy supply among private andpublic end users, leading to lower
        carbon emissions, less dependence on imported electricity and fossil fuels, and
        development o f new industries;
    0   Creating opportunities for private providers ofrenewable energy technology and services.

The project i s also in line with the Bank's infrastructure objective to work with entities or local
governments to help them tap private financing sources. Finally, the project is expected to make
a small but measurable contribution to the economic development inthe Adriatic islands, a high
priority o f the Government of Croatia.

Global Operational Strategy/Program Objective addressed by the project:
The Project i s consistent with the objectives of GEF Operational Program 6: Promoting the
Adoption o fRenewable Energy by Removing Barriers and Reducing Implementation Costs. The
Project addresses the objectives in Section 6.4 o f OP6 by: a) removing barriers to use of
commercial or near commercial renewable energy technologies; and b) reducing any additional
implementation costs that result from a lack o f practical experience, low market volumes, or
from dispersed nature of applications.
Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Market
Croatia has good potential for renewable energy, with a significant resource base, including
reasonably good resources in all technologies and excellent resources in some (e.g., biomass).
The national energy program managed by the Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar (EIHP) has
identified potential resources and these estimates have been adjusted by a recent (June 2004)
study financed by GTZ'.




 GTZ: Energy PolicyFramework Conditions for Electricity Markets and Renewable Energies, 21 Country
Analyses, Eschbom, June 2004


                                                   18

Table 2: Technical Potential of Renewable Resources in Croatia
                                  Resource          Capacity
                                IISmall hvdro           loo**    -150* MW,
                                  Biomass          I 1.438 MW+*
                                  Geothermal       I                                     I
                                                        413 MWt
                                                         28* - 48** MW,
                                                                      *
                                I Wind               1.300 MW,**
                                  Solar            I 1,585 MWt*
                                  Sources: * EIHP; ** GTZ

Croatia has experience with all technologies and has generally very good technical manpower.
This experience can be transferred to REbusinesses inthe hture. Croatia has inprinciple agreed
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as an Annex B country under the Kyoto Protocol6 and
because o f the additional REtargets expected to be set in connection with accession negotiations
with the EU Croatia will have an additional incentive (beyond energy security, local
employment, etc.) to generate clean energy Finally, there is relatively strong awareness in the
country o f environmental issues and the need for action in this domain, and keen interest among
youth in promoting clean energy as part o f Croatia's development (despite a weak network of
NGOs).
The market for wind energy i s expected to be very competitive with both foreign and local
developers poised to take advantage o f clearer rules and financial incentives as foreseen by the
government. The most promising market for biomass related projects i s expected to consist o f
existing large wood processing plants who have own process heat demand and who would be
interested in investing in a wood waste fired cogeneration plant or who would accept an ESCO
arrangement.

It is also expected that there will be good potential for small cogeneration or heat-only boilers
based on wood residues replacing or supplementing conventional boiler technology in existing
municipal heat networks. For the projects where heat needs to be sold to a third party or a public
heat network there are many legal and organizational complications which could constrain the
market development. This market i s likely to develop at a slower pace with some o f the early
change agents likely to be non-Croatian project developers exporting successful concepts from
countries like Germany and Austria.
InAppendix A to this annex a pipeline o f wind andbiomass projects has been compiled which
demonstrates a significant potential.
Government Objectives and Policy
The objectives o fthe Government of Croatia for the energy sector, as stated inthe Energy Sector
Development Strategy (January 1999), call for post-war recovery and transition towards energy


 As o fthe date of this writing, Croatia has still not ratified the treaty. Croatia requestedflexibility under Article 4.6
of the UNFCCC to be applied inits case and asked for increase o f level emission o f the base year by 4.46 Mt eq-
C02inorder to meet its Kyoto target by domestic measures. Nevertheless, the government has signed Memoranda
of Understanding with the Dutch Government on cooperation inreducing emissions o f greenhouse gases in
accordance with Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol .


                                                             19

security through: (i)   efficient energy supply in an environmentally sustainable manner at realistic
but socially acceptable prices; (ii)    demonopolization and liberalization o f the energy market; (iii)
fostering competition in the energy market where possible through privatization; (iv)
establishment o f a regulatory framework; and (v) addressing market and institutional failures to
promote energy efficiency and renewable energy resources and to protect the environment. In
addition to these objectives, the Government understands that it will be required to promote
increased use o f renewable energy as part o f its EUaccession bid.
Croatia meets two thirds o f its energy requirements from domestic production (mainly oil and
gas). However, production i s declining and energy imports will need to increase dramatically if
economic recovery is to be sustained. Croatia will have to pay full international prices for these
imports, and with large investments needed for reconstruction and expansion o f the energy
infrastructure, the financial burden on Government would be high. This burden is best mitigated
through creating an institutional and regulatory environment to attract private financing to the
sector. In addition, the scarce energy resources will have to be used in a way that represents the
highest value to the Croatian economy. This will require: (i)               a more integrated approach to
development o f the sector than existed until now; (ii)          creating tariff structures that recover the
costs o f supply each consumer imposes on the system and that lead to optimum interfuel
utilization; and (iii)   if subsidies are used for disadvantaged groups, it is best that these be
transparent andprovided directly from the government budget.
The Croatian electricity sector is dominated by the national utility, Hrvatska Elektropriveda
(HEP). HEP is the only electricity generating company inthe country, despite the allowance o f
independent or private power. HEP i s also the transmission and distribution company, operating
approximately 22 local distribution areas. In 2002, HEP's generation was comprised primarily
o f hydroelectric (46%) and thermal power plants (33%), with imported electricity covering the
remainder. Total capacity installed inthe country is approximately 3,800 MW.
The Croatian government is currently in the process o f restructuring the entire energy sector,
including electricity. The EnergyLaw passed in2001 that calls for this restructuring is currently
being amended. One possible outcome o f the amendments i s to create a Transmission System
Operator (TSO); this entity would be HEP and it would manage the grid. Separately, it is
proposed that there will be a Market Operator, which will be independent and will be responsible
for development and implementation o f tariffs, including renewable energy feed-in tariffs. The
Market Operator will fall under the purview o f the MoELE. The future o f a previously proposed
systemo f an unbundled HEP, with separate generation, transmission and distribution companies,
is uncertain.     Given the rapid change and uncertainty in the market, the need for technical
assistance to support MoELE and other participants in developing coherent policy is more
important thanbefore.
Related to the energy sector restructuring is the Government's decision to enter into accession
talks with the EUinJune 2004. Compliance with EUrenewable energy targets will be a part o f
the Government's overall energy sector strategy. The EURenewable Energy Directive currently
mandates that the 15 pre-accession member states (referring to the addition o f 10 member states
on M a y 1, 2004) should provide 22 percent o f electricity from renewable resources by 2010.
The Directive has lower targets for the 10 accession states - 11.1 percent by 2010 (a~erage).~


  The targets range broadly by accession state from 4 percent inHungary to 49 percent inLatvia.




                                                        20

However, the relatively low level o f current deployment o f RE in accession countries will
require that a higher level o f increase will need to occur for them to meet this target. Targets for
the next round o f accession countries (which include Croatia) is under discussion but not
conclusive.
The MoELE is responsible for energy policy and strategy. At the request o f MoELE, the EIHP
has developed ten national programs within energy efficiency and renewable energy resources,
comprising: (i)  one program (entitled "PLINCRO") for the development o f the gas market in
Croatia; (ii)five RE programs covering solar energy, wind, biomass, geothermal and small-
hydro plants; and (iii)four energy efficiency programs covering the promotion of energy
efficiency inindustry, services and public sectors, the development o f small cogeneration plants,
and increasingenergy efficiency indistrict heating and inbuildings. The national programs form
an integral part o f the Energy Strategy developed by the MoELE and already approved by the
Parliament. They are timely and therefore deserve immediate support.
The Government, through MoELE and with GEF support, has made some progress on
development o f the renewable energy sector since passage o f the Energy Law in2001. The Law
provides, inter alia, for the development o f renewable energy resources including a minimum
share. MoELE has proposed that the minimum share target for 2010 be 4.5% o f total electricity
supply.   To support achievement o f this target, several mechanisms are in process or under
development.     A rate subsidy that would establish a virtual feed-in tariff is currently under
consideration; a GEF-funded consultancy is currently providing analytical support to the
government inthis area, but this support will end by early 2005. In addition, the Environmental
Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF) was created by the government in fall 2004 to
support energy efficiency and use o f renewable energy, as well as various other environmental
objectives. The EPEEF will draw its resources fi-om various sources, including user fees and
taxes on emissions. The EPEEF currently has limited capacity on the energy side o f the Fund;
the Bank proposes to provide support to EPEEF through GEF-funded technical assistance,
especially inthe area o f providing adequate deal flow to ensure placement o f funds.


Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Barriers to renewable energy
Barriers to renewable energy include:

         Legal barriers, including lack of an enabling framework for renewable energy. Until
         recently, there has been no specific policy for inclusion o f renewable energy in the
         energy mix o f the country, and no rules to guide private sector development.
         Government and utility decision-makers have little understanding o f and exposure to
         renewable energy resources and their costs and benefits, and their integration into the
         system.     As a result, no decisions are made to allow development o f the renewable
         energy sector, impeding progress toward achieving the Government's stated strategy
         objectives.    This situation is further exacerbated by non-existent or inadequate
         development plans, which, combined with land ownership problems, make the
         permitting process cumbersome and costly. Finally, the current legislation and tariff
         structure do not provide incentives for HEP to connect renewable resources and enter
         into long-term power purchase agreements. This will become even more difficult in a




                                                   21

          reformed and competitive market if provisions are made inthe secondary legislation to
          position renewable energy inthe electricity sector.

        Financial barriers, including a lack of development capital. Currently there is sufficient
        capital in Croatia for project financing o f renewable energy. However, many projects are
        stalled in development because o f a lack o f development capital (risk capital). This will
        likely remain the case until progress is made on feed-in tariffs, land use policy, and
        streamlining o f the permitting process. Croatia has an improving banking sector, though
        it has little experience in project finance and almost none in the energy sector.
        Knowledge gaps among stakeholders and the banking community in particular include
        assessment o f technology and operating risk, reviewing energy contracts and pricing, and
        appropriate capital structures. Finally, there are certain structural problems relating to
        municipal finance and procurement that may impede progress o f biomass heat plant
        investment. These include statutory limits on debt exposure and possible restrictions on
        use o f third-party finance structures.

        Technical barriers, including a lack of understanding and capacity to integrate
        renewable energy into the system. There is a potential strain on the transmission system
        caused by adding intermittent generation to an already large base o f non-firm (hydro)
        power.


Strategic choices
The proposed project will address the policy barriers described above, through assistance to the
Croatian Government in developing the secondary legislation, tariffs and heat price regulations.
The project will also support the Market Operator through capacity buildingand development o f
products such as standard power purchase agreements or standard offers for power purchase.
The remaining financial andtechnical barriers will be addressed duringthrough contingent loans
for development costs, project preparation activities, and support to the TSO.
Choice ofpartners
The project will work with: (i) Government to develop the national policy, tariffs and sub-
                                   the
laws; (ii) market operator, to oversee compliance and guard against market manipulation and
           the
dominance; (iii)   HBOR, to execute the Project and entice local commercial banks into financing;
(iv), HEP, in its capacity as TSO, to comply with the national policies related to grid-connected
applications; (v) the EPEEF; (vi) local governments, to promote and facilitate development o f
resources o f use o f biomass and wind energy; (vii) NGOs, to facilitate public acceptance; and
(viii) private sector companies and commercial banks to develop commercially viable projects.
The project will cooperate with EPEEF on the setting up o f a renewable energy advisory facility
and EPEEF will provide technical due diligence for the Contingent Loan Facility. EPEEF will
also receive TA support to develop its capacity and assist it creating deal flow for renewable
energy investments. EPEEF will have significant capital available to it to invest inthe sector, but
currently has little capacity to do this. Because o f its long-term role inthe financial aspect o f RE
inthe country, itis importantto engageEPEEF early andina significant way inthe project.




                                                  22

HEP will later act as the TSO and will be the partner inPPA arrangements during the transition
phase of the market. HEP also has a great deal o f technical know-how, which can help inform
certain aspects o f the project..
Choice of technologies.      The choice o f wind energy and biomass for focus o f the project
resources is justified because the resources, after initial assessment by the Croatian Government
and institutions, appear to be significant enough to have an impact on the sector, and have
already attracted the interest o f private developers. In addition, the technologies are proven
commercially but face barriers that can be addressed and overcome partially through this project.
The time factor is crucial, as the energy sector as a whole i s undergoing restructuring, and
demonstration of renewable energy success in the early stages o f the restructured market will
provide a sound platform for continued growth. Wind energy i s already advanced but will need
transitional assistance (for a period o f not longer than two years) in order to streamline
procedures for land use arrangements, environmental assessments, arrangements regarding
PPAs, the status of privileged producer with dispatch priority and grid connection arrangements.
Furthermore, the Contingent Loan Facility will allow local developers with fewer financial
resources than the big international players, to prepare wind studies and develop sites thus
fostering optimum competition.
Both on-grid and off-grid application o f renewable energy were considered for the project.
While potential for off-grid application exist (especially inthe islands inthe Adriatic), Croatia's
distribution grid i s quite good and extensive. This does not obviate the potential for off-grid
applications, especially wind and solar. However, development o f the renewable energy market
will be affected more profoundly by addressing the policy and commercial barriers associated
with developing, financing and implementing projects connected to the grid. Stimulation o f the
grid-connected market should provide benefits to the off-grid market as well, as familiarity with
the technology, operation and costs o f RE systems will spread. Finally, on-grid applications
provide a benefit for the entire country, and not just the remote islands.
Choice of funding mechanisms. The selected funding mechanisms identified for the project
(including both preparation and implementation) were chosen to address specific barriers. These
fundingmechanisms include:

    a   The GEF Market Framework Component will provide funding for policy development,
        technical and financial training, and capacity buildinginthe renewable energy sector.
    a   The GEF Project Preparation Component including a Contingent Loan Facility will
        address current lack o f funding in the market for development costs (such as feasibility
        studies), and will promote increased development o f projects. This is primarily a
        transitional issue, especially inthe wind industry. Duringthe continued period o f market
        uncertainty, when land use agreements, tariffs, and other critical parameters remain
        unclear, developers are reluctant to follow through on projects. Risk sharing through
        contingent loans can provide a critical bridge during the market's early stages o f
        development.




                                                 23

                     APPENDIXA -PRELIMINARYPROJECTPIPELINE

The Ministry of Economy (MoELE) and the Energy InstituteHrovje Pozar (EIHP) have
provided a long list of potential biomass and wind projects. The projects have been ranked
according their stage of development (A - already implemented, B- advancedpre-feasibility, C
-earlystage,D-fewdetails/nodeveloperidentified)

Biomass Energy Projects Long List
                             -




 C Bio DH     Nasice        0      3.75     0        13     hotwater boiler District heating  Planned
             Slavonski
 C Biokogen   Brod          4       10     14        35                     District heating  Planned

 C Biokogen  Vrbovsko        1      2.5    3.5        9                     District heating  Planned
                                                                            Industrial,
 C BioelOl     elika Gorica 2       0      10         0                    wood industry      Planned
                                                                            Industrial,
 C BiokogenO8 Bjelovar      1.5     3      7 5       15                     wood industry     Planned
                                                                            Industrial,
 C BioelO5    Fuiine        2       0      12         0                     wood industry     Planned
                                                                            Industrial, agr.
 C BioelOG    KorCula       1       0       5         0                     residues          Planned
                                                                            Industrial, agr.
 C Bioel07    Brat          1       0       5         0                     residues          Planned
                                                            CHP ISteam      Industrial,
 D Bioenl     nla           2       4      10        50     turbine         wood industry     Potential




                                                24

                                            CHP ISteam
D Bioen2     nla        6   12   30     94  turbine    Districtheating  Potential

D Biokogen04 Osijek     4  10    14     35             Districtheating  Potential

D BiokogenO5 Skrad      1  2.5   3.5    9              District heating Potential

D BiokogenOG Karlovac   4   10   14     35             Districtheating  Potential




                                     25

Source: Ministryo f Economy
PPA:    Powerpurchaseagreement
EM:     EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
Pe:     Operating andbuildingpermission
En:     Engineering
Wi:     Wind measurements
SE:     Site Evaluation

The projects have been screened for their likelihood to be among the first wave to be finance
(called the shortlist) taking into account the following:
a       Highrealisationprobability
a       Low investment costs

0       Status o f showcase for following projects
a       Higheconomic efficiency
a       Low investment related to the saved tons o f carbon dioxide [/t COz]
Shortlists of candidate projects

BiomassProjects:

The shortlist shows the projects that are deemed to be closest to implementation. The criteria to
be short-listed are:
0       The plant is not inoperation or under construction or financing is not completed
0       Existence o f apotential project developer or future plant operator
        Existence of a potential fuel supplier




                                                   26

Cogeneration. The feed intariffs for the cogeneration projects havebeen calculated according to
the existing regulation. The biomass cogeneration projects are ranked according the results of a
rough economic analyses based on following assumptions:

Grants (for heat generating components only)                  10%
Share o f own capital                                         30 %
Share o f credits, loans                                      70 %
Interest rate o f credits                                  6 %per year
Credit period                                                15 years



Project      Project Developer Max. Power Max. Heat   Power       Heat     Pay back  Internal Rate
                               Capacity   Capacity  Generation  Generation  Period    of Return
                                1MW.I      [MWd      [GWhlyr]   [GWhlyr]    [years]    1% P.Yt.1

BeliSCe        Belisce d.d.        5        30         25         235         3.0        19.9

Spatva         Spacva d.d.       2.4        8.0        14.6       16.1        4.5        15.8

Ogulin         Municipality      2.3        4.5        14.0       11.2        6.5        10.0

Velika Gorica HEP-Toplinarstvo    22        25         24          30         6.5         9.6
                                                                                        To be
Hrast             Private        2.0        4.0        8.0        16.0        --      confirmed


Heating. The project proponents haveprovided the expected heat tariffs. The district heating
projects are ranked accordingthe results o f a rough economic analysis based on following
assumptions:

Grants                                                        40 %
Share o f own capital                                         30 %
Share o f credits, loans                                      70 %
Interest rate o f credits                                  6 % per year
Credit period                                                15 years




The heat generation costs for a natural gas fired heating station amounts to approx. 27.5 /MWh,
This price is basedon a natural gas price o f 0.23 /m3excl. VAT (Source: Energy inCroatia
2003) and i s similar to the feed intariffs o f 30 /MWh for heat, which were provided by the
project proponents.


                                                   27

WindEnergy Projects:

Several wind energy projects (see B-listedprojects inthe long list) are very close to the financing
phase, the project proponents are waiting for the enforcement o f a suitable secondary legislation.
The shortlist screening criteria are:

         The plant i s not inoperation or under construction or financing i s not completed
         Existence of a potentialproject developer or future plant operator
0        Type andnumber o f permissions obtained or inprocess
0        PPA issued or inprocess
0        Windmeasurements completed




Krtoiin 1                   Enersys       5.1       0.24          10.7         11.8       2.3
Jasenice 1 + 2              CENSUR       20.0       0.22          38.5         12.8       0.7


The wind energy projects have been ranked according the results o f a rough economic analyses
based on following assumptions:

Grants                                                        0 %
Share o f own capital                                        30 %
Share o f credits, loans                                      70 %
Interest rate o f credits                                 6 %per year
Credit period                                               15 years

A feed-in tariffo f 75 /MWhwas used as bases for the calculations.




                                                 28

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
CROATIA      - RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCESPROJECT

                                                            Latestsupervisionrating            I
 Sector issue                     Project                   (Bank-financed1
                                                            Implementation
 Financedby the Bank                                        Progress
 Financial    and     enterprise Enterprise and Financial Satisfactory
 sectors and utilities          I Sector Adjustment   Loan
                                 (EFSAL)
                                 Technical Assistance Loan Satisfactory
                                11(TAL1)
                                 Technical Assistance Loan Satisfactory
                                 2 (TAL2)
 National       Environmental IBRD(IDF Grant)               Satisfactory       Satisfactory1
 Action Plan
 Croatia Energy Efficiency Combined IBRD loan and NIA
 Project                         GEF grant
 Financed        by       other
 developmentagencies
 Power              distribution EBRD- Power Project        NIA
 reconstruction             and
 rehabilitation
 Removing        Barriers     to UNDP-GEF                   NIA
 Improving              Energy
 Efficiency o f the Residential
 and Service Sectors


Complementaritywith proposedGEF activity of the UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
The proposed project andthe UNDP's "Removing Barriersto ImprovingEnergy Efficiency o f
the Residential and Service Sectors" offer complementary support for Croatia's energy program (
Table 3). Both projects will produce valuable information- such as best practices for developing
and financing RE projects - that will be disseminated to Croatia and the Region. The teams
preparingboth projects are in close consultation and will look for opportunities for cooperation
andpossibly co-investment.




                                               29

Table 3: Comparison between proposed Croatia RE Project and the UNDP-GEFproject

                Croatia RER Project                  UNDP-GEF
Sector          0  Electric power and heathteam      0   Tourism services (hotels) and some
                   supply                                residential sectors
                0  Distributed   generation    for
                   small business
                Coverage: nationwide                 Coverage: The coastal regions
Technology      0  Biomass cogeneration              0   Electricity, heat, and water consumption
                0  Windenergy                            inhotel services, including use of solar
                                                         panels
                                                     0   Compact      fluorescent   lighting and
                                                         energy-efficient appliances in private
                                                         residences
GEF             0  Technical assistance grant        0   Technical assistance grant
modality        0   Contingent loan                  0   Contingent loan


A number o f other on-going activities could complement the proposed project, and provide
further momentum for establishinga viable renewable energy market. These include: (i)     USAID-
financed work energy sector restructuring (USAID has supported the Government indrafting and
implementation o f the Energy Law, and follow on work, including assistance with grid codes,
various tariffs, economic and technical aspects o f the regional power market and various issues
related to HEP's restructuring); and (ii)  various UNDP projects supporting climate change
activities ((Expedited Financing o f Climate Change Enabling Activities) and Promotion o f
Biodiesel Production(inpipeline).




                                               30

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
CROATIA       - RENEWABLE            ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT


ResultsFramework

PDO                                    OutcomeIndicators                  Use of OutcomeInformation
To develop an economically and           Introduction o f an enabling     Outcome Indicators will provide the
environmentally sustainable market       regulatory and incentive         Recipient, the World Bank, and the
for renewable energy inCroatia.          framework for RERbased power     GEF with basic information from
                                         andheat production (including    which can be determined: 1) the
                                         tariff design, sub-laws on grid  achievement     o f  an       enabling
                                         code, licensing andpermitting    framework for RER investments,
                                        procedures and training of        and 2) whether the level o f financing
                                         stakeholders)                    for renewable energy projects is
                                         Total number o f RERprojects     increasing.
                                        reaching financial closure as a
                                         result of CLF including the
                                         capacity installed (MW) and
                                         amount o f electricity and heat
                                         generated (MWh).

Global Environment Objective
Reduce GHG emissions on a                Reductions inC02 emissions at
continuous basis                         national ands project levels
                                         Increased share o f "new RER in
                                         national energy supply
IntermediateResults                    ResultsIndicatorsfor Each          Use of ResultsMonitoring
Oneper Component                       ComDonent
                                            L
Component One:                         Component One:                     Component One:
Increased in-country knowledge and
improved framework and market for       Number o f training events        Determine     whether   the     market
REdevelopment                            completed
                                          Completion o f TA assignments   preparation component is making
                                                                          progress towards establishing an
                                         relating to enabling framework
                                          and informationdissemination    enabling    framework     for    RER
                                                                           investments

Component Two:                         Component Two :                    Component Two:
Diverse portfolio o fprojects is under   Numberofcontingent loans         Determine whether the CLF is
development                               signed for RERfeasibility       operating effectively and meeting
                                          studies                         expectations for deals made ready
                                                                          for finance.




                                                        31

0
N




     N
     M

Monitoring and Evaluation
A detailed monitoring and evaluation plan has been developed for measuring the performance o f the
project (technical assistance, REinvestments financed as a result o f the Contingent LoanFacility) and o f
the program (market transformatiodstimulation). Technical assistance has been allocated in the
proposed project cost structure for monitoring and evaluating these indicators duringimplementation. In
addition, protocol for measurement and verification o f emission reductions will be an essential part o f
the demonstration projects. This will allow for verifying the cost effectiveness o f the carbon abatement,
andcanbedisseminated to the public.




                                                   33

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
CROATIA      - RENEWABLE        ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT


PROJECTDESCRIPTIONAND COMPONENTS
The project began during preparation with the objective o f assisting the government in developing a
rational policy framework for renewable energy. This includes defining national goals for
implementation o f renewable energy, based on a clear understanding o f the costs and technical issues
related to financing and installing projects. As a result of Bank and GEF assistance, the government has
developed targets for a minimum share for renewable energy, and has begun the process o f developing
the secondary legislation required for achievement o f the goals.
The Project design has two primarythrusts andcomponents:
             1. Market Framework. Support the framework and other market conditions for renewable
                energy through technical assistance;
             2. Project Preparation. Ensure an adequate and sustainable supply o f potential projects
                through investment inthe early stage o f renewable energy project development.
Implementationo f the project will include the two components mentioned above:

    0   Market Framework (US$2.0 million).

    0   Project Preparation(US$3.5 million).
The modalities o f these components and their relationship to other mechanisms supporting renewable
energy are discussed below.


Market Framework Component
The technical assistance will bebrokeninto three main areas and an amount will be left unallocated:


                    Area of Activity                                            Budget
                    Market Framework Support                                    $1,100,000
                    Monitoring, Evaluation & Information Dissemination           $350,000
                    Project Management Unit (HBOR)                               $300,000
                    Unallocated                                                  $250,000
                    TotalTechnicalAssistance                                    $2,000,000


Market Framework Support will include: support to MoELE for the feed-in tariff design and to the
market operator on tariff- and govemance-related issues; support to MoELE on establishment o f sub-
laws; support to regulation o f heat prices as they relate to biomass projects; support to development o f a
biomass fuel industry; support to the transmission system operator; and support to various government
entities (MoEPPPC, county governments) on establishing streamlinedpermitting procedures.




                                                     34

  a    Support Tariff Design. A properly designed feed-in tariff will be required for successful
       development of the renewable energy market in Croatia. MoELE, which is responsible for
       development of the tariff and supporting subsidies, has made some progress on this issue, partly
       with GEF support through a PDF-B funded analysis o f the costs and benefits o f a renewable
       energy tariff and current work on project preparation. The proposed technical assistance would
       provide additional resources to the Ministry to finalize design o f tariffs for wind energy, biomass
       electricity and heat, solar electricity, small andmini-hydro, and geothermal electricity and heat.

   a   Support to CERA and the Market Operator. The Market Operator (MO) will be a quasi-
       independent body, falling under the purview o f the MoELE, whose exact role is still being
       designed by the Government. CERA and the MoELE will be responsible for setting tariffs;
       support to these entities will be a key part o f the technical assistance effort. TA funds will be
       usedto provide support on a wide range o f issues, depending on the final role to be played by the
       MOandCERA.

   a   Support establishment of Sub-laws.         Secondary legislation - or sub-laws - must still be
       developed by MoELE for RE. Some o f these include detailed guidelines for interconnection
       with the grid, licensing criteria and procedures, and definitions o f renewable energy. TA funds
       will beused to hire consultants expert inthese matters.

   a   Support development of heatprice regulation. While heat price regulation already exists, it does
       not include provisions for use o f biomass systems.          This task will support the relevant
       government bodies to develop regulations allowing biomass heat generators to effectively
       integrate into the district heating systems. Most likely this will be based on existing systems in
       such countries as Austria, with well-developed biomass and DHsystems.

   a   Support development of biomassfuel market. While there is an abundance o f physical biomass
       resources, there i s no functioning market for collection, distribution and sale o f biomass for fuel.
       This TA task will support industry associations and other market participants in developing
       information campaigns, pricing guidelines, standard contracts and other necessary components o f
       a functioning biomass fuel market.

   a   Support development of streamlined procedures. One o f the greatest hurdles to development o f
       the wind industry is lack o f clarity on procedures for obtaining land use rights and permits for
       projects. This task will support local and central government agencies in developing more
       efficient and transparent procedures that take into account the needs o f industry and local
       residents.

   a   Support to TSO/DSO. HEP is the proposed transmission and distribution system operator, and
       will be required to integrate renewable energy into the system. With an already large non-firm
       energy base (hydro), addition o f new intermittent sources can create problems. This task will
       include training for dispatch managers, as well as software tools for system management.

Monitoring, evaluation and information disseminationwill provide ongoing M&Eo fproject activities,
and create awareness and disseminate results through workshops, brochures, etc.




                                                      35

Project management unit costs will support HBOR inimplementation o fthe project.

Unallocatedfunds will be used as needed for supplemental or new activities.

Project Prevaration Comvonent

The project preparation component has the primary objective o f providing a pipeline o f well-prepared
and bankable projects, through identification and advisory services and direct financial support for
development capital.

                            Area of Activity                       Budget
                         Project Preparation Support                 $800,000
                         Project Investment Support                  $700,000
                          Contingent Loans                         $2,000,000
                          Total Project Preparation                $3,500,000


Project Preparation Support will focus on supporting developers, banks and other project sponsors
(municipalities), by providing advice and know-how on financing, permitting, feasibility studies and
other development activities. Inthe beginning the support will be provided through a renewable energy
advisory facility in Zagreb, but if the market develops satisfactorily three regional offices could be
foreseen: in Zagreb, Osijek, and Split. The facility(ies) will have access to networks o f professionals,
and will be able to provide advice on contracts, technical issues and permitting process. It is the
intention to provide national best practice guidelines to minimize the possibility o f developers `re-
inventing the wheel'. The renewable energy advisory facility(ies) will also play a role inmonitoring the
program.

Project Investment Support will include: support to EPEEF on design o f financial instruments
appropriate for investment support o f biomass and other RER sources; support to municipal authorities
on development o f financing schemes for biomass heat projects; training for banks and other participants
on renewable energy project finance. This component will also comprise development o f a stakeholder
management strategy that will allow stakeholder views to be included early on within the development
o f specific projects.

The ContingentLoan Facility (CLF) provides early-stage, high-risk financing for qualified projects still
under development by private- or public-sector institutions. Funding o f US$2.0 million has been
earmarked for the CLF. The purpose o f the CLF is to provide resources specifically targeted for support
o f feasibility work and preparation o f renewable energy projects in Croatia, and establish an early
relationship between the project sponsors and the EPEEF and HBOR that will prepare the way for long-
term project financing. The principle is that the repayment o f the contingent loan will be forgiven and
the loan effectively converted to a grant for project that fail for reasons outside the control o f the
borrower.

Fundingfor the CLF will be through a GEF grant to the Government o f Croatia. EPEEFhas accepted to
refund loans for projects that fail thereby ensuring a 100% recycling o f the GEF funds. Any surplus




                                                   36

funds at the end o f the 4-year project period will remain in Croatia to serve a purpose compatible with
GEF objectives as agreed betweenthe Government andthe World Bank.

Eligible Recipients
Recipients o f CLF assistance may be public-sector or private-sector enterprises.                               Not-for-profit
institutions, such as schools, research institutes or non-governmental organizations may also submit
proposals for CLF support, provided that the project submitted would be implemented on a commercial
basis, as in the case o f productive ventures launched by NGOs and similar institutions.                                In such
instances, the project sponsor will be required to demonstrate that sources o f grant hnds and/or debt
have been identified to finance the project andprovide for repayment o fthe CLF loan.

Recipients may be entities legally incorporatedinCroatia.

Eligible Projects
The CLF will provide support to sponsors o f projects for the production o f electrical and/or thermal
energy from renewable energyresources, including, but not limited to biomass, wind, geothermal, solar,
and small-scale hydroelectric (up to 10 MW). While funds may be used for expansion o f existing
energy production facilities, preference will be given to projects involving development o f new energy
production facilities. Wind energy projects should require development support through the CLF only
for a transitional period, in the first two years o f operation. The rationale for this is that once market
conditions (feed-in tariff, land use procedures) are settled and clear, there will be adequate private sector
financing for all stages o f development. However, at this point in the development o f the market,
development risk i s higher than normal and therefore some assistance through the CLF isjustified.

Types o f Assistance Covered by CLF
The CLF provides contingently recoverable loans to project sponsors. In the event that the project
supported by CLF reaches financial close, the loan must be repaid out o f the proceeds o f financing for
project implementation. In the event that the feasibility studies and related work conducted with CLF
fundingdemonstrate that the project is not economically feasible, and all efforts to seek financing for the
project are to be terminated, the CLF will sign a conversion letter to cancel the obligation to repay the
loan, effectively making the loan into a grant.

Loan proceeds may be used for all later-stage development activities relevant to advancing the project
and bringing it to financial close. CLF funds may not be used for pre-feasibility studies, conceptual
designs or market studies. The CLF is not intended to support basic research and/or technological or
product development for which there is no clearly identified and immediate market or buyer. Rather, the
fund is intended to support the sponsor, pay for consultant services, and/or cover laboratory analysis or
data collection that are vital to securing investor participation and debt financing for a project.

Loans will, as a general rule, be provided on a 50% cost-sharing basis, and 50% is the maximum
coverage that can be paid from the GEF funds. Disbursements will happen against actual expenditures,
according to Bank procurement policy. In-kindcontributions from sponsors will not be considered as
cost shares.'



  The treatment o f cost-sharing for feasibility studies from a procurement perspective is still an unresolved issue. While
selection o f the borrower (developer) will not necessarily be through a competitive tender, selection o f contractors or


                                                                37

CLF Terms
The CLF will be designed as a contingently recoverable fund, managed by HBOR. It i s expected that
the repaid loans will be recycled and lent to future projects, allowing more resources to be deployed than
possible with the GEF hnds only.

         Objective: Provide early-stage, high-risk financing for qualified projects still under development
             - Designedtomitigatefinancialconstraintsforearlystagedevelopmentactivities
         Target: Strong project concepts that require further study before going to capital markets for
         funding
         Terms: Loans are contingently reimbursable, with repayment linked to financial closure; if
        project concept is found to be nonviable, recipient can request to have loan converted to a grant
        Initially availablefunding: $2.0 million
        Maximum loan/grant amount: $150,000
        Eligible projects: electric power or thermal energy production from renewable resources. From
         the outset the GEF funds will only support biomass and wind projects, while solar, small hydro
         andgeothermal projectsmaybe supported from EPEEFfunds.
         Eligible cost items: feasibility studies, additional studies and documentation required by lenders,
         including due diligence costs imposed by lenders. Eligible costs include direct, out-of-pocket
         expenses, such as consultant fees and travel. Eligible cost items do not include sponsor time and
         overhead.
         Cost-sharepercentage: Loan will be made for 50% o f eligible costs as a general principle. The
         GEF funds will maximumcover 50%.
         Terms: CLF Manager may negotiate the terms o f funding on a case-by-case basis, with the
         following guidelines:
             - Repayment schedule: interest onlyuntilrepaymentofprincipal, dueat financial closing,
                  or untilconverted to grant.
             - Interest rate: payable on unpaid principal amounts quarterly after disbursement until
                  repayment or conversion to grant.

As with any facility involvingcontingent loans, there is some risk o f abuse based on the inherent moral
hazard resulting from the possibility o f loan forgiveness. Contingent loan applicants could have an
incentive to killthe project so as to remove the liability. Some applicants may wish to receive the loan
inorder to simplycharge fees, with no intentiono fdeveloping and financing a project. This risk will be
mitigated by only funding projects that have reached a certain stage o f development - as demonstrated
by a satisfactory pre-feasibility study, and by applying loan funds only to third party expenses &e., to
not pay for "in-kind" labor o fthe developer, but only out o fpocket or direct costs).




consultants to carry out the feasibility studies will be based o n some type o f competitive process. The treatment of the cost-
sharing loans will be defined inthe desk appraisal.


                                                                 38

Annex 5: ProjectCosts
CROATIA - RENEWABLEENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT



  Project Cost B y Component andor Activity*                           Local* *          Foreign         Total
                                                                       U S $million U S $million U S $million
  1. Market Framework                                                                         2.0              2.0
           MarketFramework Support                                                               1.1              1.10
           Monitoring, Evaluation & Information                                                 0.35              0.35
           Project ManagementUnit                                                                0.3               0.3
           Unallocated                                                                          0.25              0.25
  2. Project Preparation                                                    3.0               3.5              6.5
           Project Preparation Support                                      0.5                  0.8               1.3
           Project Investment Support                                                            0.7               0.7
           Contingent LoanFacility                                           2.5                 2.0               4.5
  Total Baseline Cost                                                       3.0               5.5              8.5
   Physical Contingencies
   Price Contingencies
  Total ProjectCosts'                                                       3.0               5.5              8.5
  Interest during construction
  Front-endFee
  TotalFinancingRequired                                                    3.0               5.5              8.5
      *) The ensuing project investments (estimated at around US$120 million) are not regarded as an integral component
      o f the project and are therefore not part o f the financing plan. However, these investments are expected to take place
      as a direct result of the project preparationactivities o f Component 2 based on financing from EPEEF, HBOR, local
      banks and other commercial sources.
      **) The contributionfromEPEEF is not for the specific project butfor the broader program.




                                                               39

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
CROATIA      - RENEWABLE        ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT

ImplementingAgency

HBOR
As sole implementing agency, HBOR will coordinate the implementation o f the overall project.
HBOR i s a state-owned bank established in 1992 on the basis o f a law enacted by the Croatian
Parliament. HBOR operates within the Croatian banking systems and plays the role o f a
development and export bank with the objective o f financing the reconstruction and development o f
the Croatian economy. HBOR is currently managing the IBRD-financed Municipal Environmental
Infrastructure Project and a component o f the Energy Efficiency Project. External consultants will
assist HBOR.
The primary reasons for choosing HBORas implementing agency include:

    0   As the primary bank concerned with economic development in Croatia, HBOR understands
        issues related to market development and is already designated by the government to play a role
        as financial intermediator inthe RER sector;
    0   HBOR has implemented and managed several large World Bank loans, and is familiar with
        World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
HBOR will set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) and will operate the Contingent Loan Facility.
The PMU will coordinate all components and manage the technical assistance activities. The PMUwill
report to the Bank and the MoELE.
EPEEF
EPEEFwill co-finance pre-investment activities mainly through support to a renewable energy advisory
facility and financial participation in the Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) intended to support pre-
investment studies. EPEEFwill also be responsible for the technical due diligence inconnection with the
CLF.


IssuesRegardingNon-grantModalities

The contingent loan is a new financial product in Croatia and will be supporting a market in its infancy.
There i s little or no institutional or professional experience in managing such a facility. While the
product itself and also the conditions for lending are fairly straightforward, there i s a potential for a
moral hazard, because the loan will be forgiven in the case o f project failure during development.
Therefore i t i s important that the facility managers exercise due diligence in providing loans and
especially in monitoring progress o f projects and in understanding conditions for success and failure.
Continued tracking o f projects and sponsors will be important to ensure that the same project does not
come back ina different form, through a different sponsor, simply to avoid repayingthe loan.




                                                    40

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
CROATIA       - RENEWABLE       ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT

A review was undertaken inFebruary 2005, to determine whether the financial management systems to
be utilized by the PCU within the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) are
acceptable to the Bank.

It has been concluded that, subject to completion o f the actions plan set forth inthis annex, the Project
satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements.

Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retainedby the Borrower and made available to the Bank duringproject supervision.

CountryIssues
The latest Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC) in respect o f Auditing and
Accounting noted that the Croatian Accounting Act adopts an investor oriented approach. The Act
requires all companies to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IAS). The Audit Law requires that the audit should be carried out by a certified auditor
licensed under authority granted by the Ministryo f Finance (MOF) and inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA).

While the apparent quality o f many o f the IAS financial statements was good, there were significant
variations in the level o f compliance with IAS. Some financial statements did not purport to comply
with IAS and there is no enforcement or monitoring o f compliance with IAS. Companies are also
required to submit different financial information at different times to separate authorities and some
financial information about companies that is available to the public may not be reliable. While many
audit firms make strenuous efforts to carry out audits in accordance with ISA, there are significant
variations in the quality o f audits. The quality o f some audits i s materially affected by management
attitudes to, and perceptions about, the role o f audits. The Audit Law does not deal with the regulation
and supervision o f the profession and there are some concerns about the issuance o f audit licenses.
There is no enforcement or monitoring o f compliance with ISA.

StrengthsandWeaknesses.
As with any facility involving contingent loans, there is some risk o f abuse based on the inherent moral
hazard resulting from the possibility o f loan forgiveness. Contingent loan applicants could have an
incentive to kill the project so as to remove the liability. Some applicants may wish to receive the loan
in order to simply charge fees, with no intention o f developing and financing a project. One way to
reduce this risk i s to fund only projects that have reached a certain stage o f development - thus taking
only "serious" projects. Another method i s to apply loan funds only to third party expenses (i.e., to not
pay for "in-kind" labour o f the developer, but only out o f pocket or direct costs). These options will be
considered and incorporated in to the PIP. Completion o f the PIP, including specific procedures for the
contingent loan component, i s a condition of effectiveness.

The strengths o f the project are that HBOR has extensive, and continuing, experience in the
management o f Bank financed infrastructure projects. Also, HBORi s an implementing agency, together



                                                     41

with HEP ESCO, for the ongoingEnergy Efficiency Project (EEP). The EEP also has a contingent loan
facility and lessons learned from that project will guide operation of the REP facility.

FundsFlow
The IBRD would make funds available to the Government o f Croatia under the Grant Agreement,
governing the terms and conditions of the GEF Grant and specifying the project. The Government o f
Croatia would, through a Grant Implementation Agreement, appoint HBOR as its agent to manage the
Grant funds.
Project funds will flow from the Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished on
the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications for Part A
o f the project. For Part B of the project (the CLF) funds will flow from the Bank via a CLF Account
based on signed sub-loan agreements between HBOR and project beneficiaries. Loan re-flows will be
recycled and at the end of the project either on-granted to EPEEF or another entity that operates in line
with GEF overall objectives.
The chart below describes the flow o f funds.




                                                     42

43

HBOR will prepare the project financial-accounting section in PIP including the procedures, roles and
the responsibilities o f the staff, accounts used for the project accounting, accounting treatment, the
agreed formats o fthe FMR.

ReportingandMonitoring
HBOR will maintain accounts o f the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting o f the funds
provided. HBORwill beresponsible for preparingFMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs will include:


     0   Project Sources andUses o fFunds
     0   Uses o fFunds by Project Activity (component)
     0   Statement of Contingent Loan Balance
     0   Special Account Statement
     0   Procurement Reporting.

The first Financial Monitoring Report will be fumished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end
o f the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and will cover the period from the Effective Date to
the end o f the first calendar quarter. FMR formats have been agreed with the PCU.

InformationSystems
HBOR uses the software designed specifically for the bankingsector which is supported by additional
modules.

For the project purposes the implementing team will use existing supporting module to gather the data
on the use o f GEF funds (coming through the Special Account, direct payments etc) and counterpart
funds which will not be recorded in the books o f HBOR. In addition HBOR will use a spreadsheet
model to keep track o f contingent loans issued.

InternalAudit
There i s an Intemal Audit Department (IAD) inHBORwhich reports to HBOR management. The work
plan includes the following areas: (i)    compulsory money laundering, (ii) o f the intemal control,
                                                                              testing
(iii) ofprocedures for new products, (iv) loanportfolio verifications. The Department also
      review
controls Special Funds managed by HBOR. The Intemal Audit Department follows up on
recommendations arising from its own audits/reviews, however issues raised by the extemal auditor are
assigned to the Finance and Accounting Department. The independence o f the IAD would be
strengthened by having it report directly to the Supervisory Board or an audit committee appointed by
the Supervisory Board.

ExternalAudit
HBOR's annual financial statements are prepared in accordance with IAS/IFRS and are audited in
accordance with ISA by a one o f the "big 4" international audit firms. The audited financial statements
are publishedwithin 4 months o f the year end and are available on HBOR's website.

The project financial statements will be audited separately and audit services for this purpose may be
financed over the Grant proceeds.




                                                       44

DisbursementArrangements.
The project i s expected to be implemented over a period o f 4 years, plus six months for the completion
o f accounts andthe submission o f withdrawal applications.

Allocation of Grantproceeds
                                 Amount ofthe GEF Trust
                                 FundGrant Allocated        % of Expenditures to be
Category                         (Expressed inUS$)          Financed
(1) Consultants' services                3,000,000                1OO%(intemational)
                                                                      75% (local)
(2) Training                              200,000                        100%
(3) Operating Costs                       300,000                        100%
(4) Sub-financing under Part B           2,000,000                       50%
TOTAL                                    5,500,000


Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retained by HBOR and made available to the Bank during project supervision.            Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating
to those expenditures. There is no planto move to periodic disbursements.

To facilitate timely project implementation, HBORwill establish, maintain and operate a single Special
Account in US$ under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Withdrawal applications for the
replenishments o f the SA will be sent to the Bank monthly or at least every three months regardless the
activity during the period or size o f the Special Account. Replenishment applications must include
reconciled, detailed bank statements as well as other appropriate documents (e.g. SOE or source
documentation). The bank statement must indicate both the opening and closing balance o f the Special
Account for the period covered by the expenditures claimed, and likewise, indicate all transactions and
activity on the account during the period. The reconciliation statement must also explain any
discrepancies (surplus or shortage o f funds) andthe status o f any previously deducted expenditures.


SupervisionPlan
The project implementation progress reports will be monitored in detail during regular supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the country FMS and any issues arisingwill be
followed up promptly. The frequency o f on-site FM supervision missions will be determined based on
the Project's FM risk rating, which will be generated using ECA's financial management risk model.
Audited financial reports o fthe Project will be reviewedand identifiedissues followed up.




                                                     45

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements


CROATIA RENEWABLEENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT
            -

A. General

Procurement o f GEF-financed components o f the Project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits'' dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004,
and the provisions stipulated in the Legal and Project agreements. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the GEF
Trust Fund, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the HBOR and the Bank in the Procurement
Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

The projected procurement would initially be advertised in a General Procurement Notice following
Board approval. The Bank will publish the GPN online in the UNDB in the Development Gateway's
dgMarket. The individual Expression o f Interest (EOI) for consulting services will be advertised in
Narodny Novine and on the HBOR website (or a local newspaper o f wide circulation). In addition,
Expression o f Interest (EOI) for consultants's contracts above US$200,000 equivalent would be
advertise on-line in UNDB and dgMarket. The results o f contract awards for goods and consulting
services will be posted on the HBOR.

The HBOR would follow the World Bank anti-corruption measures and would not engage services o f
firms and individuals debarred by the Bank. The listing o f such debarred firms and individuals i s located
at: http://www.worldbank.orzhtmVopr/procure/debarr.htm1

ProcurementofWorks: N o Works are foreseen under this Project.

Procurementof Goods: N o Goods are foreseen underthis Project.

Selection of Consultants: : All technical assistance (US$3.0 million) for the Project will be financed
by GEF and will be in a form o f individual consultants and consulting firms (both local and
international) provided under the Market Framework Component to (i)       support MoELE for the feed-in
tariff design and to the market operator on tariff and govemance-related issues; (ii) support to MoELE
on establishment o f sub-laws; (iii) to regulation o f heat prices as they relate to biomass projects;
                                    support
(iv) support to development o f a biomass fuel industry; (v) support to the transmission system operator;
(vi) support to the distribution system operator; (vii) support to various government entities on
establishing streamlined permitting procedures; (viii) monitor and evaluate ongoing project activities
and create awareness and disseminate results through workshops, brochures etc.; and(ix) support HBOR
inimplementationofthe Project.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely by national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f
the Consultant Guidelines.



                                                    46

The applicable selection methods will be as follows:

Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method will be a preferred method for a majority o f
consulting assignments depending on the size and complexity o fthe assignment;

Quality Based Selection (QBS) method will be used for specialized assignment, where cost
considerations are o f less importance and costs are also are not expected to differ substantially between
the consulting firms.

Consultants Qualifications (CQ) will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent, such as specialized review, study, etc. CQ shall be usedincases when the above methods do
not apply.

Fixed Budget (FB) selection will be used for simple assignments where cost estimate i s clear as well as a
Project Agencies has a limitedbudget for the assignment.

Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will be used for assignment o f standard or routine nature such as
Project audit, etc.

Single Source Selection (SS) may be used in exceptional cases as per provisions o f the Guidelines and
with prior Bank approval.

Contracts with individual consultants (IC) may be used for services where teams o f personnel are not
required and where the qualification and experience o f the individual consultant are the paramount
requirements.

Training: Training will include seminars, training courses, workshops and study tours for staff o f
HBOR,EPEEF, selected financial institutions and renewable energy businesses as prior approved by the
Bank. Consultants requiredfor preparation, facilitation or conducting training activities shall be selected
under appropriate procedures for selection o f the Consultants as described above. Selection o f such
consultants shall be includedinthe Procurement Plan.

OperatingCosts: The operatingcosts (US$300,000) would cover personnel, overhead and direct costs
o f the Project Management Unit o f HBORrelated to implementation o f the project and would be paid to
HBOR on a monthly basis inlump sum installments pro rata to annual operating costs budget approved
bythe Bank. Procurement under operating costs would follow HBORprocedures.

Grants under ContingentLoan Facility (CLF): The CLF provides early-stage, high-risk financing for
qualified projects still under development by private- or public-sector institutions. Funding o f US$2.0
million has been earmarked for the CLF. The purpose o f the CLF is to provide resources specifically
targeted for support o f feasibility work and preparation o f renewable energy projects in Croatia, and
establish an early relationship between the project sponsors and the EPEEF and HBOR that will prepare
the way for long-term project financing. Procurement procedures for procurement by the grant-
recipients will be detailed inthe Project Implementation Plan.




                                                    47

B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement:

On behalf o f the GoC HBOR will coordinate the implementation of the overall project. The primary
reasons for selecting HBOR as implementing agency because it (i)    understands issues related to market
development and can help to bring commercial banks into the projects as co-financiers; (ii)has
implemented and managed several World Bank loans, and is familiar with World Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures; and (iii)s already involved as the provider o f soft-loans to environmental and
                                    i
energy projects based on grant funds from Energy Protection and Energetic Efficiency Fund. The
agency will select individuals with procurement experience who will familiarize themselves with the
latest procurement guidelines. A Consultant (financed from the GEF grant) will assist in carrying out
the procurement activities and supervise implementationofthe project.

 A project launchworkshop will beorganizedimmediately after the effectiveness o fthe Grant.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Recipient has developed a procurement plan for project implementation (see draft below). It will be
available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be
updated in agreement with the Project Team periodically (at least annually) to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds.

Bunk's Prior Review Thresholds will be as follows: (i) consultant contracts with firms estimated to
                                                          all
cost US$lOO,OOO or more each; (ii)    Contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000
and more per consultant (cumulative amounts); (iii) consultant contract under CQ method, (iv) all
                                                      first
Single Source contracts with firms and sole source contracts with individual consultants, (v) all TORS.

Procurement MonitoringReporting. The PMU would maintain complete procurement files which the
Bank would review during supervision missions and future audits. Prior to the issuance o f any EO1,the
PMUwill consult with the agreed procurement plan and will follow respective procedures agreed with
the Bank for such contracts. Procurement o f services shall be undertaken inaccordance with the agreed
Procurement Plan which would be revised on a yearly basis or as appropriate subject to the Bank
approval. Terms o f Reference for update o f Procurement Plan were discussed at the negotiations and
attached to the minutes o f negotiations. Monitoring reports on procurement progress would be submitted
quarterly as part o f the quarterly report on project implementation within 30 days o f the end o f the
reporting quarter. All contracts would be listed, including contracts to be bid. Data would include type
of contract, method o f procurement, contract amount, critical dates, payments to date, GEF grant
disbursements to date, and current status. Where appropriate, estimates for contracts not yet bid or
signed would be included inthe procurement data.


D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the priorreview supervisionto be carriedout bythe Bankoffices, there willbeperiodic
supervision missions (at least six-monthly) to reviewprogress o f procurement activities.




                                                    48

             tD
            0       81 81 8          0
                                     0
            f                       2i
          -                    t    -

            0
            0       0   0    0  b b  tD
                                0 0  0
            d
            U Q                s?f
                                c  i


  VI                81 81    a
                             0
  0          (0
  p         0 0 (0              SI S (0
                                     0
            d A                      d
  n         U U
              Q  Q                   U0)




                (0
               0
        0
        r       c
               7 (P


                    81 81    0
                             tD


                               +

        -

        I-          a   Bl   3 I
        -
             0 0                     0   c
             v)
             r rv)

                               I   s 0
                                     0   cc?


             0 0                     0    c
             v)
             r rv)                   0
                                     m    c
                                          c?




                v)
               0    v ) v ) v )
                    0   0    0       v)
                                     0



*                              t
zo
OVma n
     I
     S
      (P




                               +
      d     T  9
     z      F F                      2    (r
                                          a

           5
           U
           Q
           v)

C
VI   0                   0
     0
(c   z     d

C    0
VI   0
(c   z

     to
     0




              I     I
             to    n
             0   m
                L  0

c1
m    cy
    m

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
CROATIA      - RENEWABLEENERGY             RESOURCESPROJECT

FINANCIAL SUMMARY

The purpose o f the analysis in this Annex is to provide an overview o f the key parameters and risks
which define and drive the performance o f the Contingent Loan Facility and to present the financial
results o f the operation o f the program. In addition, this section discusses the assumptions used in
developing financial projections for investments made insuccessfully developedprojects.
ContingentLoanFacility
The Contingent Loan Facility will operate as a revolving fund providing cost-share loans for project
development activities (feasibility studies) for private sector developers. Loans will be made on a 50%
cost-share basis to qualified projects. Loans will be repaid to the Facility upon successful financing o f
the project. Projects that are not financed will not be obligated to repay the loan; in these cases the
Facility will forgive the loan andit will become a grant (andan expense to the Facility).

The initial capital available for lending will be US$2.0 million. This would allow for 13 project loans
made from GEF-disbursed fund, plus an additional 11 loans made from repaid capital. A total o f 24
loans would be made, o f which 13 would be converted to grants. The expected default rate is estimated
at 54%. This is likely to be higher in the first two years as the manager gains experience in approving
applications.

The total amount o f feasibility studies contingent loans will be US$3.6 million; at a 50% cost share, this
will allow for feasibility study funding o f US$7.2 million over 6 years. The assumed loan size is
US$150,000, based on estimated feasibility study costs o f $300,000 per project. The Facility will have a
balance o f approximately $275,000 in cash at the end o f Year 7, when all loans have been made and
principal recovered.

The tables below show the expected cash flow and cost-sharing loans disbursed over the six-year Project
period, and a summaryo f the assumptions and results.




                                                     51

Table 4: Contingent Loan Facility Cash Model (US$)




ProjectFeasibilitySupport

 Contingentloansmade(GEF-funded)
 Loansmadefrom repaidloans




Contingently RecoverableLoan Product Indicators

CLs issued, cumulative                                           3            8           13         18         22          24          24
Numberofloansconvertedto Grant                                   0            2            3          3          2           2           I
Cumulativegrants                                                 0            2            5          8         I O         12          13
NumberofLoansrepaid                                              0            1            2          2          3           2           I
NumberofCurrentlyDisbursedCLs (andperforming)                    3            5            2          0          0           0           0
Value ofloansdisbursed, currentyear (mid-yearaverage)      450,000     750,000     750,000     750,000    600,000      300,000           0
Cumulativevalue ofloansdisbursed,cment year                450,000   1,200,000   1,950,000    2,700,000  3,300,000   3,600,000   3,600,000
Value ofloansrepaid, currentyear (end of year)                   0      150,000    300,000     300,000    450,000      300,000     150,000
Cumulativevalue ofloansrepaid                                    0      150.000    450,000      750,000  1,200,000   1,500,000   1,650,000
Value ofloans forgiven, currentyear (endofyear)                  0     300,000     450,000     450,000     300,000     300,000     150,000
Cumulativevalue ofloans forgiven                                 0      300,000    750,000    1,200,000  1,500,000   1,800,000   1,950,000
Netvalue ofloans outstanding(end of year)                  450,000      750,000    750,000      750,000    600,000     300,000           0
Interestearningson Outstandingloans                         11,250      22,500      37,500       37,500     37,500      30,000      15,000
Numberofdesk studiesperformed                                    6          I O          I O        I O         8           4


Statement of Cash Flow: Contingent Loan Facility




 hpital balance (beginning of period)                            0      13.583    34,117       70,250     106,083     43,917       78.250



  Disbursements from GEF for loans                       450,000     600,000     450,000      450.000      50,000           0           0     2,000,000
  Pnncipal Repayments                                            0   150,000      300,000     300,000    450000       300,000    150,000      1,650,000
  Interest eamings                                         11,250      22,500      37,500       37,500     37,500      30,000      15.000       191,250
  Disbursements from GEF for operating costs               33.333      33 333      33.333      33,333      33,333      33,333      33,333       200,000
  Total CashIn                                           494,583     805,833      820,833     820,833     570,833     363,333    198333       4,041,250



 m       t
  Amount of Contingent Loan Disbursements                (45tr.fNO) (750,000~    (750,000)   (750,000)   (hOu.000)  (3iIO.iiOli)         0   (3,600,OUO
  Desk studycost                                           (6,0011)   (lO~!KM))   (10.000)    (lo,(J(xl)   (8,OoOJ     (4.0110)          0      (48,000
  Operating Expenses                                      (zs.orio)  (2j.000)     (2s;ooo)    (?S,OOO)    (25.000)    (?5,ooo)           0     (150.1~00
  Total CashOut                                          (481,OOii) (?iS,iiaci)  (7r5.r:ion) (785.iNO)   (033,00ri)  (529.000)           0   (3,798,000

 nnual Net Cash Flow                                       13,583       20,833     35.833       35.833    (h2,16-)     34,333    198,333        243,250
 :et Annual Cash Balance (end ofperiod)                    13.583       34.417     70,250     106,083      43.917      78,250    276,583




                                                                              52

Table 5: Summary ofAssumptions andResults-ContingentLoanFacility


GEF Grant Amount for Loans                                                    $2,000,000
Desk study cost per study                                                         $1,000
Total desk studies                                                                    48
Total desk study costs                                                           $48,000
Net Amount Available for Projects                                             $2,000,000

Percent of proposals accepted                                                        0.5
Average contingent loan (CL)                                                   $150,000
MinimumNumber ofProjects Financed(assuming all converted to grant)                    13
Percentageo f CLs that are converted to grant (loss percentage)                     54%
Numberof loansrepaid                                                                  11
Total loans made                                                                      24
Interest rate                                                                        5%
 Interest earnings                                                             $191,250
Total value of loans placed                                                   $3,600,000
 Cost share percentage                                                                0.5
 Total value of development costs supported                                   $7,200,000



Program Income
The manager o f the CLF will request disbursements for loans and operating costs from the Bank through
HBOR's PMU. Total disbursements from the Bank are estimated at $2.0 million for loans.

Estimated loan repayments are US$1.65 million, most o f which will be recycled and loaned to new
projects.

Finally, a modest amount o f interest on outstanding loans will be earned by the program.         Total
estimated interest earnings over six years is about US$191,000. This i s based on a 5% interest rate
applied to outstanding loans. For calculation purposes, it is assumed that loans made in a certain year
will be made at the end of that year; therefore interest eamings on those loans will not occur until the
following year.    It is also assumed that the average outstanding loan period (before repayment o f
conversion to grant) is one year.

InvestmentsMadein SuccessfulProjects

The Contingent Loan Facility will provide critical support to a number o f projects that will be
successfully developed and financed.          The volume o f financing is estimated based on certain
assumptions regarding project type and technology, capacity, and unit capital cost. In addition, certain
assumptions regarding financial leverage and capital structure have been made. These are explained
below.

From the 11 projects supported by the CLF that go forward and eventually obtain financing, the total
estimated investment value i s around US$120 million. The projects will comprise both electric power-
only from wind energy, cogeneration from biomass, and heat-only projects from biomass (this part is,




                                                       53

however, insignificant). The total installed electric power capacity will be approximately100 MW, with
about 80 MW from wind energy and 20 MW from biomass.

Wind energy projects need assistance during the early stage o f market maturation, when development
risk is very high. The project economics, however, should merit commercial financing with typical
terms seen in other countries. Biomass projects, on the other hand, are smaller, more expensive, and in
the case o fheat-only projects, have low capacity factors because o f the short heating season. Therefore
some financial support is likely to be required, probably in grant form. EPEEF has expressed an
intention to support biomass projects through subsidizing interest on loans from HBOR. Effectively this
i s a grant, and i s presented here as such. The following table shows the assumed capital structure for
wind andbiomass projects:


                                        Table 6: Capital Structure of Projects


                                                          Wind          Biomass Cogeneration
                                                         Energy             andHeat Only
                           DeveloperEquity                 30%                 20%
                           EPEEFGrant                                          25%
                          ICommercialDebt             I              I                      I


Other assumptions which factor into the overall financial projections are:

                                Capital Cost (US$/MW)
                                  Wind                                          1,000,000
                                  Biomasscogeneration                           2,500,000
                                  Biomassheat only                                850,000
                                Average Project Size (MW)
                                  Wind                                                 20
                                  Biomass cogeneration (MWe)                            3
                                  Biomassheat onlv (MWt)                                2

These and additional assumptions on project operating performance are drawn from actual projects
underdevelopment inCroatia at this time.'             The pipeline has a large sampling o f wind and biomass
cogeneration projects andprovides the basis for most o f the assumptions.

EPEEF Funding
The modalities o fEPEEFfundingo frenewable energy projects are still being developed. The Fundhas
 expressed its intent to provide fundingo f approximately US$4 million per year for a variety o f RE
projects, not including wind energy. Because o f the representation o fbiomass inthe market, the project
 team has assumed that EPEEFwill use approximately 50 Percent o f these funds for biomass projects.


  Developedas part o f the consultancy for project preparation through the PDF-Bgrant.


                                                             54

Its stated intention at this time i s to work with HBOR, who would provide loans to projects; EPEEF
would cover the interest cost or cost o f money for HBOR, allowing the project to obtain a subsidized
loan. Assuming a 20% equity contribution, the EPEEFsubsidy would account for about 25% o f total
costs. Therefore this amount i s shown as a grant.

Financial Projections
Based on the above assumptions andthe schedule o f contingent loans shown inTable 5 above, an
 estimate o fproject financing has been made.


                        Table 7: Project Financing by Type and Source (US$ millions)



[Investment by Project Type
   Wind                                  -      20.00      40.00      20.00                                  80.00
   Biomass cogeneration                                        -      7.50        15.00      7.50    7.50    37.50
   Biomass heat only                                                      -        1.70      1.70             3.40
  Total Investment                       -      20.00      40.00      27.50       16.70      9.20    7.50    120.90

                                                                                                   I     i

  Investment by Source
   Commercial Debt                       -      14.00 j    28.00      14.00                     - i           56.00
I                                                                 ,                                       I
                                                                                                   I    - 1,
   HBORDebt                     I        -    1     - I        - 1     4.13    1, 9.19   1   5.06  1 4.13     22.50,1
   EPEEFGrant                   ,                              -             1
                                                         ~                                 ~
                                                                       1.88  1    4.18       2.30 I  1.88     10.23
                                                                    ~




   Equity                                - 1     6.00      12.00  1    7.50        3.34 ,    1.84    1S O     32.18
                                ~




                                                             55

Cost Benefit Analysis, Frontier Economics, March 2003

                 Executive Summary




                           56

Executive summary




                  57

58

59

60

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
CROATIA - RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCESPROJECT

Environment. In accordance with World Bank policy on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0l),
the project has been rated Category C. Through the facilitation o f investments in renewable energy the
project will indirectly result in major positive impacts on the environment, interms o f increased use o f
renewable energy resources, reduced air pollution and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. There are no
adverse major environmental issues associated with this project. There i s some potential reputational
risk that the Bank faces by virtue o f the fact that feasibility studies funded by the contingent loan facility
may lead to projects that may later have some negative environmental impact. For example, a wind
farm could, through poor environmental planning, result in avian mortality. However, this will be
mitigated through the inclusion of environmental assessments following World Bank guideline as
mandatory components in the feasibility studies to be supported. Furthermore, the project will support
the MoEPPPC indeveloping general standards for environmental assessments and clearance procedures
that should minimize the risk o fpoor projects beingcleared.

There are no critical social issues relatedto the project.




                                                       61

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision
CROATIA - RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT


                                         Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                                           05/06/2002
InitialPID to PIC                                                   06/13/2002
InitialISDS to PIC                                                  06/02/2003
Appraisal                                                           02/21/2005
Negotiations                                                        05/10/2005
BoardRVP approval                         06/23/2005
Planneddate o f effectiveness             08/31/2005
Planneddate o fmid-termreview             04/01/2008
Plannedclosing date                       08/31/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:


    0   MoELE
    0   HBOR
    0   EPEEF

Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked onthe project included:

__~
Name                              Title                          Unit
Peter Johansen                    Task Team Leader (current)     ECSIE
RachidBenmessaoud                 Task Team Leader (prior)       SACIN
StjepanGabric                     Projects Officer               ECSIE
Michael Gascoyne                  FinancialManagement Spec.      ECSPS
Angelica Femandes                 ProcurementAnalyst             ECSPS
RickRenner                        Consultant




Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources:                                     US$179,302.75
    2. Trust funds:                                         US$24,452.73
     3. Total:                                              US$203,755.5 8

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcoststo approval:                          US$5,000
     2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:                   US$60,000


A GEF PDF-B Grant (US$350,000) was approved to cover the costs of additional preparatory work
requiredprior to project effectiveness. This work included: (i)
                                                             developing the analytical work that would


                                                   62

help define inthe legislation the minimum share o f renewable energy resources inthe supply mix o f the
country and the incentive structure for development and implementation; (ii)           making available to
decision-makers adequate information on the economic potential o f renewable energy, the economic,
financial and environmental costshenefits o f various technologies, and the economic and financial
impact on the consumers and the economy; (iii)        creating a framework for improving the planning
capacity at all government levels; (iv) responding to concerns o f utility staff regarding cost and impact
o f intermittent generation fed into the grid; (v) identifying ways to streamline the permitting and
licensing process for wind and small hydro; and (vi) developing the structure, terms and conditions for
use o f contingent loan, and assisting in raising additional equity capital and debt financing (foreign and
domestic); (vii) developing project implementation plan, including monitoring and reporting.




                                                    63

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
CROATIA RENEWABLE ENERGYRESOURCESPROJECT
            -



A.    Bank Staff Assessments


Economic Analysis


Financial Management Assessment


Financial Projections


Procurement Capacity Assessment




B.     Other


Market Assessment


Cost-Benefit Analysis




                                       64

  Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
  CROATIA - RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT

                                                                                                                     Difference    between
                                                                                                                     expected and actual
                                                            OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD     IDA       SF         GEF      Cancel.  Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO65416      2004  COAST CITIES POLLUT'N CONTROL              47.54     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     49.30    11S O       0.00
                   (APL #1)
PO71461      2004  ENERGY EFF (GEF)                             0.00    0.00      0.00      7.00     0.00      6.26      0.00      0.00
PO79978      2004  ENERGY EFF                                   5.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      5.21    -0.10       0.00
PO43195      2004  RIJEKA GATEWAY                            156.50     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    143.62      5.43      0.00
PO63546      2003  PENSIONSYS INVST                           27.30     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     17.92      4.42      0.00
PO67149      2003  REAL PROP REG& CADASTRE                    25.70     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     28.92      1.65      0.00
PO42014      2002  KARST ECOSYSCONSV (GEF)                      0.00    0.00      0.00      5.07     0.00      3.67      2.29      0.00
PO70088      2001  TRADE & TRANS FACIL INSE EUR               13.93     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      4.09      0.51      0.00
PO65466      2001  COURT & BANKRUPTCY ADM (LIL)                 5.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.95      3.53      3.12
PO51273      2000  HEALTH SYSTEM                              29.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     14.43    14.43       14.43
PO39161      1999  RAILWAY MOD & RESTRCT'G                   101.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     11.96     19.22       0.00
PO57767      1999  TA INST REGREF PSD                           7.30    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.12      3.12       0.00
PO48983      1998  EAST SLAVONIA REC                          40.60     0.00      0.00      0.80     0.00     10.20      9.74       0.00
PO43444      1998  MUNENV INFRA                               36.30     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     19.21     17.74      10.18

                   Total:                                    495.17     0.00      0.00     12.87     0.00    321.86    93.48       27.73


  CROATIA
  STATEMENT OF IFC's
  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
  InMillionsof US Dollars


                                                   Committed                                Disbursed
                                                   IFC                                      IFC

        FY Approval   Company                      Loan     Equity    Quasi       Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.

         1998102      Belisce                      12.10        0.00      0.00      14.31      12.10      0.00      0.00      14.31
         2002         CroatiaBanka                 3.63         0.00      0.00        0.00      3.63      0.00      0.00       0.00
         1999         CroatiaCapital               0.00         4.90      0.00        0.00      0.00      4.52      0.00       0.00
         1999102      E&S Bank                     24.20        0.00      0.00        0.00     24.20      0.00      0.00       0.00
         2001         Pliva                        0.00         0.00    10.00         0.00      0.00      0.00     10.00       0.00
         2000         Viktor Lenac                 6.00         0.00      0.50        8.18      6.00      0.00      0.00       8.18

                      Total aortfilio:              45.93       4.90    10.50       22.49      45.93      4.52     10.00      22.49



                                                                     Approvals PendingCommitment

                       FY Approval     Company                       Loan         Equity       Quasi      Partic.

                       2002            Croatia Banka                 0.01              0.00       0.00        0.00
                       2002            ESBankZagreb I1               0.01              0.00       0.00        0.00
                       2004            Viktor Lenac Exp              0.01              0.00       0.00        0.01

                                       Total pendingcommittment:        0.03           0.00       0.00        0.01




                                                                    65

Annex 14: Country at a Glance
CROATIA             - RENEWABLEENERGYRESOURCESPROJECT
                                                                Europe &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central  middle-
                                                       Croatia     Asia   income           Development diamond'
2003
Population.mid-year(millions)                              4.4       473      335      I                 Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                          5,500      2,570    5,340
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                           24.0       1277    1788                               i
Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population (%J                                             -0.8       0.0       12
Laborforce (%)                                              0.3       0.2       18         GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                    __
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                   per                                   primary
                                                                                           capita                              nrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovettyline)            11
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                       69         63       76
Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                               75         69       73     ,1,                      -1
Infantmortality(per l000live bitths)                         7         31       B
Child malnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                                                1           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved watersource (%ofpopulation)           95         91       89
llliteracy(%ofpopulationage 59                               2          3        9
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-age population)          95        0 3      0 4           -        Croafia
   Male                                                               0 4      0 4                    Upper-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                             0 2      a 4             ~




KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                               1983      1993      2002     2003
                                                                                           Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 ..      0.9       22.8     28.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      ..      15.5      26.7     27.8      1I
Exports of goods andservices/GDP                   ..     52.4       45.3     44.0                            Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                 14.3       n.9      B.4
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                          ....    6.2       20.5      B.9

Currentaccount balance/GDP                         ..       5.8       -8.4     -6.1        Domestic      __
Interestpaynents/GDP                               ..       0.9        2.2     2.0        ,savings                            investment
Total debt/GDP                                     ..     22.8       67.7     75.3
Total debtservice/exports                          ..       4.9      24.3      n.7        ~




Present value of debt/GDP                                            65.9
Present value of debt/exports                                       P2.9                                   Indebtedness
                                    1983-93 1993-03      2002      2003 2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       ..     4.0        5.2       4.7      4.2              -Croatia

GDP percapita                             ..     4.7        5.1        6.5     4.5                     Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                  ~


r . - . ,                                                                                 I


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                lga3lgS3                                   Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                                738         9 0
Industry                                                  35 8       29 3
   Manufactunng                                           30 6        201     200
Services                                                  50 3        618     622           o

Pnvateconsumption                                         622        60 7
Generalgovernment consumption                             23 5        214     204
Imports of goods and services                             53 6       540      534                    ~~--GDI           -GDP


                                            1983-93 1993*03        2o02             X r x h o f exports and Imports               ( O h )
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                -0 3        0 5     2 7         30r
Industry                                                    3 4        8 7
   Manufactunng                                             3 1        6 7
Services                                                    4 8        3 3

Pnvateconsumption                                           3 3        7 8
Generalgovernment consumption                              -0 1        0 6
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services                               6551      78 3
                                                                         4     4 5
                                                                               5 4     --            -Exports         -1rrports




                                                                            66

                                                                                                           Croatia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983  1993    2002    2003      Inflation (%)                             I
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                              10 -

Consumer prices                               156.6       2.2      25    8

Implicit GDP deflator                         1466.8      2.7     2.4    6
                                                                         4
Government finance                                                       2
(%of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 36.9     45.0   44.6
Current budget balance                           -0.1      16      18
Overall surplusldeficit                          -2.0    -3.2    -3.5


TRADE
                                         1983  1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            3,910   4,995   6,007    15 000 -
 Rawmaterials,excludingfuels                    237      274     329
 Mineralfuels and lubricants                    377      458     560
 Manufactures                                  1,762    2,456   2,953
Total imports (cif)                            4,620   0,635   t3,469
 Food                                           266      794     930
 Fueland energy                                 447     1310    1500
 Capital goods                                  749     3,682  4,500

Export price index(895-xIO)                               141     P O           97   98    99   00    01   02    03

Import price index(895=xIOJ                               140     18                  BExports        LIrrpOrtS
Terms of trade (S95-rOO)                                  101     101


B A L A N C E of PAYMENTS
                                         1983  1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balance t o G D P (%)

Exports of goods and services                  6 3 6   10,562  14,324
Importsof goods and services                   5,767   t3,047  6,ZP
Resource balance                                429    -2,485  -1888

Net income                                      - P O   -499   -1096
Net current transfers                           328     1076    1,235

Current account balance                         637    -1908   -1749

Financing items (net)                            4 1    2.605  4,055
Changes in net reserves                         -467    -697   -2,306   -15 -
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)            6 6    5,886   8,82
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 3.6      7.9     6.7


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983  1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                           Composition o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.]
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed            2,486   15,4t3  22573
  IBRD                                            89      611    762                 G 772 A 762
  IDA                                               0       0       0                               DTf7

Total debt service                              325    2,967    2.864
  IBRD                                            43      52      86
  IDA                                               0       0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                    0     60
  Official creditors                             -52      6 5     8 6
  Private creditors                               P    2,352   3,922
  Foreign direct investment                      102      591   1,685
  Portfolio equity                                 0    -260     837
                                                                                   F TT.825
World Bank program
  Commitments                                      0     202        0    A IBRD                        E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                                     1     P 6     155    B IDA
                                                                           --      D Othernultilateral
                                                                                     -                 F Private
                                                                                                         -
  Principalrepayments                             33      30      58     C-IMF                         G-Short-term




                                                              67

Annex 15: IncrementalCost Analysis
CROATIA      - RENEWABLE        ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT

Concept

The proposed project will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Croatia by developing an
economically and environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy. Croatia's potential market
for renewable energy projects is estimated at approximately US$1.2 billion ininvestment value, yet few
projects have been implemented, except by HEP, the national utility. The project aims to reduce or
eliminate various barriers to renewable energy implementation and to stimulate the market through
technical assistance, support o f development costs (contingent loans).

Barriersand Modalities

The barriers to a sustainable renewable energy market inCroatia are:


    0   Legal
    0   Financial
    0    Technical

Theproposed project will address these barriers through the components and financing mechanisms
noted below.

The GEF-supported activity (USS5.5 million) will generate US$120.9 million in project funding or
10.8% o fthe total market potential.

One GEF non-grant modality, a GEF Contingent Loan Facility o f US$2.0 million for project
development costs, is proposed to address both legal and financial barriers.        In addition, technical
assistancewill be targeted toward all barriers.


BaseCase
Limited financing o f sustainable renewable energy projects is occurring in Croatia. As a result the base
case i s very little development o f the market. One wind project has been financed and several more are
under development now. Many are stalled because o f legal barriers. In addition to the six megawatts
recently installed, another 20 MW may be installed in the next few years under the existing scenario
where a feed-in tariff does not exist. Inthis light it is assumed that the "business as usual" scenario o f
investment would develop 1.1% o f the potential market, compared with the project's estimated 10.8%.
The base case would reduce emissions by 174,920 tons o f carbon dioxide at a cost o f US$26 million, for
a unit abatement cost o f US$149 per ton C02 equivalent.
ProjectCase
The proposed project consists o f renewable energy project development by independent energy firms
and public sector entities including municipalities. The amount o f direct project investments will be
US$120.9 million (including contingent loans), reducing emissions by 1.7 million tons o f carbon dioxide
at an abatement cost o fUS$3.21 per ton.



                                                    68

IncrementalCost
The total incremental cost of the project i s US$5.5 million in GEF funds. It comprises technical
assistance for market development (USS2.0 million) and project preparation cost of US$3.5 million,
including the Contingent Loan Facility. The incremental reduction incarbon dioxide is 1.5 milliontons.
Thus, on an incremental cost basis, the associated reductions of the activity are approximately US$3.57
per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent.              This incremental cost of carbon reductions is based on the
assumed mix o f wind andbiomass".


Table 8: IncrementalCost Matrix

                               Baseline                       ProjectAlternative               Increment
                               Some continued                 Financing ofhighrisk             Greatly enhanced

DomesticBenefit                development and                development costs for            ability and capacity to
                               implementation of              wind andbiomass;                 implementrenewable
                               renewable energy,              market conditioning              energy projects; greatly
                               mostlywind; slightly           activities to provide            reduced local
                               lower GHG emissions            financial incentives and         emissions; creation o f
                                                              remove legalbarriers;            new industry
                                                              project preparation
                                                              activities to ensure deal
                                                              flow
                               Slow implementation            Total reduction of               Incrementalreduction

 GlobalEnvironment             ofrenewable energy             1,713,456 tC02, through          o f 1,538,536 tC02
Benefit                        projects; about 174,920        financing and
                               tC02 reduction over 10 implementation o f 99
                               years                          MW.

 Costs(US$ million)

MarketFramework                               $0                          $2.0                            $2.0
Project Preparation                           $0                          $3.5                            $3.5
 includingContingent
 Grant Facility


 Total                                        $0                          $5.5                            $5.5




~




 lo
  Carbon emissions factors are basedon Croatian country estimates for the grid and on calculations from IPCCC guidelines
for thermal energy using a mix o f fuel oil and natural gas.


                                                             69

Potential Global Environmental Benefits of the Project

The estimated greenhouse gas reduction potential o f Croatia's market for renewable energy i s 5.6
million tons o f carbon dioxide over 10 years. This estimate i s based on the carbon intensity o f electrical
generation system in Croatia, based on HEP reporting o f emissions (0.256 tC02MWh). Of this, the
proposed project will account for approximately 30%. Based on the market value o f renewable energy
projects identified here, the cost o f reductions is US$73.77 per ton o f carbon dioxide. Based on the
incremental cost o f US$5.5 million for the project, the GEF-related cost of reductions achieved is
US$3.57 per ton o f carbon dioxide.

RiskSharing

There are multiple co-financing, technical and commercial partners involved in the project, allowing
GEF to allocate risk to other parties as well as each other. EPEEFwill play a major role inthe market,
and should be supported by the Project.        Private sector developers will share significant risk by
providing equity for project investments. Commercial banks will assume risk through lending to the
project companies that are formed to develop the demonstration projects.

Leveraging and Replication

Leveraging o f GEF funds with private investment and other resources occurs at several levels o f the
proposed project. For example, the incremental cost o f the project, US$5.5 million, is leveraging an
additional project financing o f US$121 million, or about 22 times the incremental cost. Leveraging o f
total project cost to GEF fundingis 23: 1.

The total project investment figure does not include the entire expected market impact o f the GEF
components.     Further market development will occur as a result o f technical assistance (market
conditioning, streamlining o fprocedures, renewable energy advisory facility).

Replication will be achieved in the project primarily through the contingent loan facility.             The
contingent loans program will allow funds to be made available to private developers o f renewable
energy projects in the most risky early stages o f development. The US$2.0 million initial capital for
contingent loans would allow approximately 24 feasibility studies to be funded during implementation,
inaddition to deal flow development.




                                                    70

Annex 16: STAP Roster Review
CROATIA     - RENEWABLE        ENERGY RESOURCESPROJECT


This section includes the following documents:

1. STAP Technical Review (completed onMarch8, 2002)
2. Responses to STAP Comments




                                               71

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY


BERKELEY * DAVIS * IRVINE * LOSAKGELES  RIVERSIDE  SANDIEGO  SANFRANCISCO




ENERGY    AND RESOURCES GROUP                                         DANIELM.KAMMEN
310BARROWS      HALL                                                  PROFESSOR OF ENERGY  AND SOCIETY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA                                              PROFESSOROFPUBLICPOLICY
BERKELEY,A94720-3050
             C                                                        DIRECTOR,
WWW: http://socrates.berkeley.edderg                                  RENEWABLE AND APPROPRIATE ENERGY
LABORATORY
FAX:(510) 642-1085                                                    EMAIL:
dkammen@socrates.berkeley.edu
                                                                      TEL:(510) 642-1139 (OFFICE)
                                                                      TELFAX:(510) 643-2243 (RAEL)


                                                                      March 8,2002

To:     RachidBenmessaoud, Rick Renner
Email: rbenmessaoud@,,worldbank.org,FRenner@aol.com
From: DanielM.Kammen
Re:     Review o f CroatiaEnergyResourcesProject             - revisedcomments    (3/6/02)
        (Project ID:P071464)

Summary:

This project takes an integrated approach to building the institutional capacity to manage and sustain a
renewable energy industry and market in Croatia. The mix o f public-sector (grants totaling $6 million)
support and private sector market investment (investments and equity totaling at least $12 million)
provides the sort o fbalance of commitments needed to buildmarket push and demand pull mechanisms.
This project team has clarified a number o f small items, and at this the project plan is fine. An ongoing
issue will be to monitor and facilitate the interactions between, the national utility, Hrvatska
Elektroprivreda (HEP), the NGO community, and private sector interests. This relationship is critical to
buildinglong-term market stability andhence economic opportunity.

Irecommendsupportforthisproject.

Major Comments:

Page 6ff: The dominance o f Hrvatska Elektroprivreda in Croatia remains a concern. Discussions o f re-
regulatiodunbundling of HEP exist, but the outcome is uncertain. The evolution o f a one-provider
system, particularly in the aftermath o f the war, is certainly understandable. While the professional and



                                                        72

entrepreneurial capacity in Croatia exists to diversify away from the single utility model, a range of
barriers are likely to exist that will be difficult to anticipate and to counter. Several o f these barriers are
identified in Section B.4.1, "Barriers to renewable energy".            The role o f public information and
oversight (C.4.2, page 14/15) i s an important component of the project to support and maintain as the
project evolves. The fact that these risks are recognized inthe Project Brief provides the best chance for
vigilance and success.

The large private-sector financing in the project i s one indication that a competitive business market
could emerge in Croatia, but it i s insufficient to guarantee this outcome. Section C.4.2 stipulates that
both NGOs and the EIHP will have input inthis process. It is incumbent on the World Bank/GEF staff
to monitor this arrangement and be sure that the input and concerns expressed by these organizations is
head and that responsive strategies exist to act on their concerns.

Finally, one added mechanism may exist to codify the commitment to buildinga clean energy industry.
A Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard - frequently considered a policy mechanism relevant to
developed country markets - may be quite appropriate in the Croatian setting. The reasons for this
include: 1) Government (political) commitment to the REP energy sector; 2) private-sector financing,
and the need to build sustained interest in the clean energy market; 3) price guarantees effectively
proposed already by the GEF grant. The aspects o f the proposed renewable energy grant and market
already outline many of the features needed to support a RPS, and the formal codification in Croatia
would provide a critical statement o f support, as well as market guarantees for potential clean energy
entrants.

Greater detail could be added to the biomass energy plan. Biomass facilities can vary greatly in size
(from  -1  MW to 20+ MW facilities for most developing nation application) and inoperational plan. In
a recent review, we (Kammen, et al., 2001) identifieda range o f conditions on both the biomass energy
supply and the managing institutions that have proven beneficial in moving biomass energy projects
from planto viable commercial model.

Page 18ff The cost-benefit analysis is clear, andthe project costs are reasonable.

Page 26: "Sustainability Risks".      This section strangely does not examine the risk to the envisioned
clean energy market by not designing mechanisms to test for both technical quality o f the solar, biomass
and wind systems (e.g. voluntary or formal certification) and entrepreneurial resources (e.g. through
business and financial management training) that are both critical to project survival. This latter point,
of substantial risk if market skills are not developed, is reflected in the Table on page 26. This i s
particularly important ifthe Croatian market will evolve to be diverse and not dominated by HEP-
related entities.

Analysis o f incremental cost (Annex 11'1analysis (page 34ff):

Page 34: Table 9. The 50150 division o f contingent grants between the wind and biomass projects
appears arbitrary. Simply based on cost/kW to install new capacity, these technologies are likely to
require significantly different amounts o f capital to seed investments.

Fundmanagement fees of $110,00O/year, presumably primarilysalaries, is reasonable.



                                                        73

Page 36: the calculations for $/ton for carbon mitigation should be disaggregated to examine different
technologies alone. The low carbon costs (table 23) ($2 - 6/tC) need to be reconciled with the GHG
reduction costs indicated in tables 19 - 21 (Page 42) in terms of economic and political assessment of
the chances o f achieving the various market potentials.

Minor Comments & Clarijcations:

Page 8: As an added indication of renewable energy institutional and human capacity in Croatia, unlike
most developing nations, Croatia has inthe past housed photovoltaic manufacturing capacity.

Page 12: The Equity Financing Mechanism does not specify the goal or balance o f large and small-scale
investors anticipated for support. This sort o f mechanism can be critical to initiate new investment in a
sector such as renewables, but many examples exist where the bulk o f the resources go to supporting
existing institutions (or spin-offs) o f groups like the HEP. This builds market barriers even beyond
those that existed initially. Are set-asides or other mechanisms anticipatedto avoid this situation?

References .

Awerbuch, S. (2001) "Its not the technology: investing in decentralized alternatives", manuscript in
proof.

Duke, R.D., Jacobson, A.,and Kammen D.M. (2002), "Product Quality in the Kenyan Solar Home
Systems Market," inpress, Energy Policy.
Available online at: http://socrates.berkeley.edu/-rael/qualityshs.pdf

Kammen, D. M., Bailis, R., and Herzog, A.V. (2001) "Clean Energy for Development and Economic
Growth: Biomass and Other Renewable Energy Options to Meet Energy and Development Needs in
Poor Nations," UNDP report for the 7th Conference o f the Parties to the UNFramework Convention on
Climate Change (COP7-UNFCCC): Marakech, Morocco (October 29 - November 9), 111 pages, in
press.
Available online at: http://socrates.berkeley.edu/-rael/RAEL UNDP Biomass CDM.pdf



STAP technical review was completed on March 8,2002.




                                                      74

Responses to S T A P Technical Reviewer's maior concerns:
Major Concern No. I: The dominance of Hrvatska Elektroprivreda in Croatia remains a concern.
While the professional and entrepreneurial capacity in Croatia exists to divers& away from the
single utility model, a range of barriers are likely to exist that will be difJicult to anticipate and to
counter. Several of these barriers are identified in Section B.4.I,but no clear strategy to circumvent
them ispresented -asidefrom vigilance.
The Government i s currently developing the secondary legislation related to renewable energy that
includes mandating a minimum share for renewable energy, designation and status o f `privileged
producers,' rules for connecting third parties to the grid, and implementation o f tariffs with
incentives for renewables. One of the conditions for approval o f the project by the World Bank will
be assurance that the enabling framework is either in place (ie., regulations enacted) or sufficient
progress has been made toward enactment, with a time-bound action plan for completion in place
and agreed to by the Government. The World Bank will monitor progress o f drafting and enactment
of secondary legislation throughout the project preparation. This and other secondary legislation,
together with Croatia's compliance with EUaccession requirements and intemational protocols (e.g.,
Kyoto) are expected to address the market dominance o f HEP prior and after it is unbundled. The
project will also assist the regulator in overseeing compliance with the policy, including preventing
market dominance by the utility(ies). The demonstration projects are expected to pave the way for a
collaborative effort o f all project partners, including the utility(ies), and to provide assurance about
the technical, environmental and commercial viability o f renewable energy.
Major Concern No. 2: The large private-sector financing in the project is one indication that a
competitive business market could emerge in Croatia, but it is insuflcient to guarantee this outcome.
Can additional mechanisms be introduced to foster open market competition?                 Section C.4.2
 "Involvement of NGOs, local banks, and local businesses" is not sufficiently detailed to permit an
evaluation of the degree to which a serious plan to involve and empower the wider energy
community in Croatia exists.
The project team proposes to review further the issue on how to foster open market competition. A
preliminary reply follows. Competition in and for the renewable market will depend on the target
levels for the minimum share o f renewable energy that will be set inthe legislation. To ensure open
competition, minimum share of renewable should be set at level that the economy can afford after
taking into account the costs global externalities. As long as system avoided costs are below to the
financial price o f renewables, the minimum target will continue to encourage further renewable
development and growth opportunities, on a competitive basis. Ifand when renewable is financially
competitive, the minimum target i s no longer required, and market forces would sustain renewable
growth.
Efforts are under way to inform the public and engage stakeholders. Further participatory activities
are envisaged during preparation and will be carried out by an NGO. One o f these activities is the
development o f a plan for involving and empowering the energy community. The development o f
such a planwill be based 01) a two-way consultation with the various stakeholders on project design
and on their role and responsibilitiesduringproject implementation.
Major Concern No. 3: Finally, one added mechanism may exist to codib the commitment to
building a clean energy industry. A Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard -frequently considered a




                                                      75

policy mechanism relevant to developed country markets - may be quite appropriate in the Croatian
setting.
The Government's proposal inthe EnergyLaw for a minimumshare from renewables is inessence a
Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (for the country as a whole, as opposed to some WS systems
which are set up among states or regions). The Ministry o f Economy is currently responsible for
prescribing exactly what this minimum will be, and over what time period it will be achieved, etc.
The Government's commitment to this will be strengthened by the EU directives calling for a
minimum share o f renewables, and Croatia's intent to accede to the EU. The World Bank approval
of the project will be partly based on milestones achieved towards the establishment o f a reasonable
minimumshare or portfolio standard.
Major Concern No. 4: Greater detail is needed on the biomass energyplan. Biomassfacilities can
vary greatly in size Cfrom   -1  M W to 20+ M Wfacilities for most developing nation application) and
in operational plan.
The Project Team recognizes that market data and cost estimates for biomass, and other technologies
as well, need further investigation and refinement. Project preparation will include a rigorous and
detailed cost analysis o f all renewable applications inCroatia, in support o f the Government's effort
to enact secondary legislation. Data collection and analysis will be partially based on existing
projects, which have been reviewed in some detail already by such Croatian institutions as the EMP
and Ekonerg. Inparticular, project pre-feasibility studies were conducted a few years ago on several
biomass cogeneration opportunities, andproject size ranged from about 2 MW to 25 MW.
Some o f the PDF B funding will be used to conduct initial screening for preparation o f the
demonstrationprojects. This effort will produce a range o fproject sizes, fuel types, and costs.
Major Concern No. 5: Thecost-benefit analysis is clear, and theproject costs are reasonable.
Initial descriptions o f the cost-benefit analysis to be undertaken during preparation were inadequate,
and further details were provided to the reviewer and included inthe Project Brief- See Section E.1.
Inparticular, there was some concern regardingthe possibility ofan "economics as usual" approach.
While this was not the intent, the description o f the C B A was not defined clearly enough. In the
absence o f detailed terms o f reference (which are under development and which require some input
from the Government), the Project Team have described the approach as one being concerned not
simply with typical avoided cost analysis, but with inclusion o f externalities which capture the
environmental benefits, as well as financialhisk benefits, o f renewable energy.
Major Concern No. 6: "Sustainability Risks". This section strangely does not examine the risk to
the envisioned clean energy market by not designing mechanisms to testfor both technical quality of
the solar, biomass and wind systems (e.g. voluntary or formal certification) and entrepreneurial
resources (e.g. through business andfinancial management training) that are both critical toproject
survival.
Technical quality will be reviewed during project preparation and development o f demonstration
projects, through feasibility studies using best practices for engineering design and operational plans.
In follow-on projects, the same standards will be required for feasibility analysis and technical
design. Operating performance will be reviewed periodically through monitoring and evaluation
protocols created during preparation. In all cases, technical quality should be assured by having
rigorous due diligence conducted by all parties involved in co-financing. Namely, HBOR, as an
investor using GEF and its own funds, will engage external consultants to review engineering design


                                                      76

and operating parameters. Operating performance and technical issues associated with projects will
be disseminated to the public through a renewable energy advisory facility, the EIHP, or a
combination o f both.
The project will continually develop the entrepreneurial resources through training o f project
developers and the banking community (project finance, risks associated with renewable energy
projects, contracts, etc.).
Major Concern No. 7:        The 50/50 division of contingent grants between the wind and biomass
projects appears arbitrary. Simply based on cost/kW to install new capacity, these technologies are
likely to require significantly different amounts of capital to seed investments.
The division o f contingent grants for the demonstration projects was based on assumptions o f
development costs in Croatia for each technology. These estimates were based on discussions with
developers (in the case of wind energy) and consulting engineers (in the case o f biomass). Our
assumptions were that each technology would take about US$400,000 to develop into a financeable
project. While this was done partly to simplify the model, it is also based on discussions in Croatia
andanunderstandingoftypical costs for feasibility studies. Inthese cases, we assume the feasibility
study cost itself (engineering, site assessment, financial pro formas and environmental impact) will
be less for wind (about $150,000 total) and more for biomass (about $200,000 total), due to more
complex and detailed engineering and fuel analysis. However, we expect that other development
costs - such as obtaining permits, licenses, land use agreements, and public acceptance - will be
greater for wind than for biomass. This is due partly to the assumption that biomass projects may be
developed "inside the fence" - inwhich case the project sponsor will also own the property, and will
not be developing a greenfield project. Legal and other contracting costs should be approximately
the same. While there i s little experience in Croatia with actual development activities in the
biomass area, there are currently at least two wind projects under development. In both cases,
developers have indicated costs ranging from $250,000 to $500,000, over a period o f approximately
five years. We expect these costs will go down if several o f the bamers on procedural issues are
removed.
Major Concern No. 8: Fund managementfees of $1lO,OOO/year, presumably primarily salaries, is
reasonable.
The STAP Reviewer's initial reaction that costs o f $175,00O/year seemed high was addressed by a
downward adjustment of overhead and consulting fees incurred by management, and by adjusting
the total costs incurred duringimplementationto reflect years when little or no investment would be
made (probably the last year or two o f implementation). $110,000 per year is therefore an average
o ftotal costs over six years. The Project Team assumes that duringimplementation, about three full-
time staff will be needed for management o f both the contingent loan and equity fund. This staff
will include a manager with equity investment experience, a financial analyst, and an administrative
support person. These costs are approximately 2.5% o f committed capital inthe equity mechanism,
which i s in line with typical venture capital fund management fees (2 - 2.5%). When considering
the combined contingent grant and equity mechanisms, the management costs are about 1.9% o f
committed capital, which i s quite low. The Project Team consider that these costs, which will be
paid from a combination of interest earnings and GEF grant, are incremental to the HBOR.
However, HBOR can also use existing staff from other departments, on a part-time basis, to perform
services such as credit analysis. This contribution can reflect the cost o f managing its own equity.




                                                     77

Major Concern No. 9: The calculationsfor $/tonfor carbon mitigation should be disaggregated to
examine different technologies alone. The low carbon costs ($2 - 6/tC) need to be reconciled with
the GHG reduction costs in terms of economic and political assessment of the chances of achieving
the various market potentials.
Since the drafting o f this comment, the Project Team have changed the carbon intensity figures used
inincrementalanalysis, to reflect the most conservative approach to carbon abatement. This figure,
0.256 tCOYMWh, i s based on HEP calculations, and i s somewhat lower than the range o f intensity
figures generated for the National Communication to the UNFCCC.                This raises the cost-
effectiveness figure to about US$38/ton C 0 2 (US$lO/ton carbon). Inorder to address the concern o f
the STAP Reviewer, calculations were made for biomass and wind energy separately.                Cost
effectiveness for carbon abatement for wind energy only, using the incremental cost o f US$6
million, resulted ina figure o f US$47/ton C 0 2 (US$13/tC). For biomass energy, which has a higher
capacity factor, the cost-effectiveness increases to US$24/ton C02, or US$6/tC.




Responsesto STAP Technical Reviewers' minor comments and clarifications:
As an added indication of renewable energy institutional and human capacity in Croatia, unlike
most developing nations, Croatia has in thepast housedphotovoltaic manufacturing capacity.
It is correct that Croatia has had recent experience with manufacturing o f solar PV, and during the
stakeholder workshops conducted inthis project, several institutions have noted this as well as some
frustration that such capacity no longer exists. In addition, the EIHP has estimated that as recently
as the 1970s, biomass energy contributed as much as 25% o f Croatia's total energy supply (largely
heat energy).     Finally, HEP and INA both have significant experience with hydropower and
geothermal energy. Through well-designed training and capacity building in the project, these
human resources and institutional knowledge can be developed to create a strong technical base for
renewable, to complement the policy framework and financial mechanisms that will be developed in
the project.
The Equity Financing Mechanism does not spec& the goal or balance of large and small-scale
investors anticipated for support. This sort of mechanism can be critical to initiate new investment
in a sector such as renewables, but many examples exist where the bulk of the resources go to
supporting existing institutions (or spin-ofs) of groups like the HEP. This builds market barriers
even beyond those that existed initially. Are set-asides or other mechanisms anticipated to avoid this
situation?
The goal o f providing some balance in order to avoid market distortions has been briefly addressed
in Section E.2, as a result of the comments made by the STAP Reviewer. The specific portfolio
balancing and diversification strategies for the equity investing have not yet been defined, but in
principle are recognized as critical aspects o f the project. These issues will be addressed in the
financing mechanisms design component during preparation, and include: (i)     balance o f investments
made in small and large enterprises; (ii)  balance o f investments made in different technologies; and
(iii) ofinvestmentsmadeinforeign-ownedandCroatian-ownedenterprisesorprojects. Best
     balance
practices will be followed for creation o f investment guidelines for equity funds which have market
development objectives, such as funds created by the Multilateral Investment Fund o f the Inter-
American Development Bank, which focus on small- and medium-sized enterprise development.


                                                     78

