Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054973 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(
Renewable Energy Resources Project
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
HRVATSKA BANKA ZA OBNOVU I RAZVITAK 
 
Dated July 27, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054973 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 27, 2005 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and 
HRVATSKA BANKA ZA OBNOVA I RAZVITAK (HBOR). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of Croatia (the Recipient) and the 
Bank, the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF has agreed to make 
available to the Recipient an amount equivalent to five million five hundred thousand 
Dollars ($5,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Global Environment 
Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement), but only 
on conditions that HBOR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
the proceeds of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant (the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant) provided for under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be 
made available to HBOR in accordance with the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation 
Agreement between the Recipient and HBOR and on the terms and conditions, 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS HBOR in consideration of the Bank entering into the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) HBOR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HBOR shall otherwise agree, HBOR shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consulting services and training required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Procurement of training, and operating costs required for the Renewable Energy Sub-
project under Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of the PIP. 
 
(b) 
HBOR together with the Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procu
rement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) HBOR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating, use of services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HBOR shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and HBOR, a plan designed to envisage 
possible follow-up activities within the objectives of the Project; 
and 
 
Page  4
3
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
HBOR on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. HBOR shall duly perform all its obligations under arrangements 
referred to in the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, including the setting up 
of a Contingent Loan Facility, under terms satisfactory to the Bank. Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, HBOR shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the HBOR GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) HBOR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
HBOR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by HBOR of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of HBOR 
 
Section 3.01. HBOR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. HBOR shall maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) HBOR shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to  the Project. 
Page  5
4
(b) HBOR 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii)    
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank and the Recipient such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Witho
ut limitation upon HBOR’s progress reporting obligations 
in this Agreement, HBOR shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring 
Report in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds;  
 
(ii) 
sets forth the Special Account for the Project, showing the period 
opening balance, movements during the period and the period 
closing balance; 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the Contingent Loan Fund, showing the period opening 
balance, movements during the period and the period closing 
balance; 
 
(iv) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and
 
Page  6
5
(v) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HBOR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HBOR of 
this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
Page  7
6
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For HBOR: 
 
Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak 
 
 
Strossmayerov trg, 9 
 
Zagreb 10000 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
3851 4591 523   
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HBOR may be 
taken or executed by the President of the Management Board and a member of the 
Management Board of HBOR or such other person or persons as the President of the 
Management Board shall designate in writing, and HBOR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
As an Implementing Agency of the Global Environmental Facility 
 
By  /s/ Anand Seth 
Authorized Representative 
 
HRVATSKA BANKA ZA OBNOVU I RAZVITAK 
 
By /s/ Anton Kovacev
 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ 
Marija Kolaric 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
Page  10
9
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis.. 
 
Section IV.
Procurement of Training
Services for logistical organization of the workshops, study tours, conferences 
and seminars, but excluding consultant services for preparation of trainng event or 
materials, shall be procured in accordance with the Recipient
’s administrative procedures 
provided for in PIP. 
 
Section V
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Procurement Planning
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A
:
Project Implementation
1. 
HBOR shall establish and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, 
the PMU with staff and resources as shall be required to perform its duties in respect of 
overall management and implementation of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
2. 
HBOR shall: (a) enter into an agreement with EPEEF, the EPEEF-HBOR Project 
Implementation Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed 
upon with the Bank and which shall include, 
inter alia
,
provisions whereby: (i) the 
responsibilities and tasks of each entity involved in the implementation of Part B of the 
Project are described, including the responsibility of EPEEF to carry out the technical due 
diligence for the feasibility studies under Part B of the Project, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices; (ii) the commitment of 
each entity to coordinate and cooperate in their respective activities for the purposes of 
the implementation of Part B of the Project; (iii) EPEEF’s financial contribution to Part B 
of the Project is defined; (iv) the conditions and circumstances under which EPEEF 
would agree to repay the Loans in lieu and place of the Beneficiary as referred to in Part 
E.2 of this Schedule; and (v) the entities are required to implement Part B of the Project 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, the relevant provisions of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement and this Agreement.  
 
(b)  
exercise its rights under the EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, HBOR and EPEEF shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the 
EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
HBOR shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions agreed with 
the Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan and shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive said plan or any provisions thereof, without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence.  The Project Implementation Plan shall set forth, 
inter alia
:
the Eligibility 
Criteria, procedures (including selection, appraisal, approval procedures) and 
environmental assessments for the execution of Part B of the Project; and key instruments 
for the execution and coordination of the Project (including procurement and financial 
management procedures). 
Page  12
11 
 
4. HBOR 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 30, 2007, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by August 31, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Part B
:
Contingent Loan Facility 
1. 
HBOR shall establish a Contingent Loan Facility Account for the Contingent 
Loan Facility in HBOR under commercial practices for the purposes of implementing 
Part B of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
HBOR shall manage and use the proceeds of the Contingent Loan Facility 
Account in a manner consistent with the purposes and objectives of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement and in accordance with provisions of the PIP, including but not limited 
to using the proceeds of the Contingent Loan Facility Account exclusively for making 
payments in connection with the Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loans. 
 
3. 
HBOR shall act prudently and reasonably in exercising its management 
obligations in respect of the Contingent Loan Facility, including prudently lending the 
proceeds of the Contingent Loan Facility, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall 
deposit income deriving from the Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan recoveries 
directly into the Contingent Loan Facility Account. 
 
4. 
HBOR shall carry out the following with respect to expenditures funded with 
withdrawals from the Contingent Loan Facility Account:   
 
(a) 
maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;  
 
Page  13
12 
 
(b) 
retain for at least one year after the Project Closing Date, all records 
evidencing such expenditures;  
 
(c) 
enable the Recipient and the Bank to examine such records; and  
 
(d) 
ensure that the audit reports contain a separate opinion by the auditors as 
to whether the records and accounts submitted for the relevant audit, together with the 
procedures and controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Part C
:
Deposits to the Contingent Loan Facility Account from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account
1. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Contingent Loan 
Facility Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the amounts from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account for deposit into the Contingent Loan Facility Account shall be made 
as follows: 
 
(a) 
HBOR and EPEEF shall execute a Renewable Energy Sub-project 
Contract, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, for a Renewable Energy Sub-
financing Loan not to exceed the equivalent of $150,000 or such other amount as may be 
agreed upon by the Bank from time to time, and, for each executed Renewable Energy 
Sub-project Contract, furnish the Bank with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said 
contract has been duly authorized and executed in compliance with the provisions of the 
PIP and this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
subsequent to execution of each Renewable Energy Sub-project 
Contract, HBOR shall submit a request to the Bank for withdrawal from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit to the Contingent Loan Facility Account an amount 
equivalent to the Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan, unless there are already 
sufficient funds in the Contingent Loan Facility to cover the amount of an additional 
Loan for example as a result of refunds of Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loans. 
 
2. HBOR 
shall: 
 
(a)  
Prior to entering into the first two Renewable Energy Sub-project 
Contracts
,
obtain the Bank’s approval on contractual arrangements for said transaction.    
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Contingent Loan Facility Account will not be required to cover further 
Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loans, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Recipient such outstanding amount.   Refunds shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement.  
Page  14
13 
 
3. 
The Bank shall have the right to terminate disbursements into the Contingent 
Loan Facility Account in the event that: 
 
(a) 
HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement, the EPEEF-HBOR 
Project Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof, are amended, suspended, 
abrogated, waived or repealed by the Recipient, EPEEF or HBOR, without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank, and such amendment, suspension, abrogation, waiver or repeal 
materially and adversely affects the ability of the EPEEF or HBOR to perform any of its 
obligations under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or the EPEEF-HBOR 
Project Implementation Agreement, respectively; 
 
(b)    
any authority having lawful jurisdiction shall have taken any action for 
dissolution or disestablishment of HBOR or EPEEF, or for the suspension of its 
operations, and such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension shall materially and 
adversely affect the ability of HBOR and EPEEF to carry out their respective obligations 
under HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or the EPEEF-HBOR Project 
Implementation Agreement, respectively;  
 
(c)  
HBOR or EPEEF fails to fulfill their respective obligations under HBOR 
GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or the EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation 
Agreement; or 
 
(d)  
the charter of HBOR is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely 
affect the ability of: (i) the Recipient to effectively implement its obligations under the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement or HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement; or 
(ii) HBOR to effectively carry out its obligations under HBOR GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement. 
 
Part D
:
Withdrawals from the Contingent Loan Facility Account
HBOR shall make withdrawals from the Contingent Loan Facility Account only 
for payments made in accordance with a Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan in 
accordance with a Renewable Energy Sub-project Contract and the PIP, as a result of an 
application by a Beneficiary for a Renewable Energy Sub-project. 
 
Part E
:
Renewable Energy Sub-projects and Renewable Energy Sub-projects 
Contract
s
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project: (a) Beneficiaries shall be 
eligible to present Renewable Energy Sub-projects, all in accordance with the Eligibility 
Criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
Page  15
14 
 
(b) 
Sub-projects shall be evaluated and approved by EPEEF and HBOR in 
their respective capacities and responsibilities, all in accordance with the PIP and the 
EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation Agreement and shall be implemented by 
Beneficiaries in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project Implementation 
Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
For purposes of each Renewable Energy Sub-project, HBOR and EPEEF 
shall conclude an agreement with the Beneficiary, the Renewable Energy Sub-project 
Contract, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan. Said agreement will provide, 
inter alia,
 that the Beneficiary shall 
be awarded a Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan to carry out a Renewable Energy 
Sub-project under the following respective obligations of the parties thereunder, 
including but not limited to:   
 
(i)  
a description of the Renewable Energy Sub-project and an 
estimate of the cost thereof, disbursement schedules and 
procurement procedures, as they may apply, and the amount of 
the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of the Renewable 
Energy Sub-project; 
 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Renewable 
Energy Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
technical practices, and with due regard to environmental factors, 
and to maintain adequate records; 
 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to provide all such information 
as the Bank or Recipient or HBOR or EPEEF shall reasonably 
request relating to the implementation of the Renewable Energy 
Sub-project and the performance of the Beneficiary thereunder;   
 
(iv) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary not to use the proceeds of a 
Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan to finance taxes or duties 
levied or land acquisition; 
 
(v) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to procure  services under the 
Renewable Energy Sub-project in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(vi) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to maintain records and accounts 
for expenditures incurred under the Renewable Energy Sub-
project and financed from the proceeds of the Renewable Energy 
Sub-financing Loan and to submit to HBOR at regular intervals 
statements with respect to such records and accounts;  
Page  16
15 
 
(vii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to repay the amount of the 
Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan in accordance with the 
Renewable Energy Sub-Project Contract; and 
 
(vii) 
the right of HBOR and the Bank to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under such agreement. 
 
2.  
(a)  
EPEEF may decide to repay the Loan in lieu and place of the 
Beneficiary, on the grounds that 
the Beneficiary’s reasons not to implement a renewable 
energy project (after having carried out a Renewable Energy Sub-project) are reasonable 
and satisfactory, all in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIP and the 
provisions of the Renewable Energy Sub-project Contract.  
 
(b)  
The justification referred to in paragraph (a) above could include among 
others, the fact that: (i) as a result of the feasibility study, a renewable energy project is 
financially not viable and all reasonable efforts to seek financing for the renewable 
energy project are unsuccessful; and (ii) the Beneficiary cannot carry out a renewable 
energy project as a result of an unforeseeable event beyond its control.  
 
(c)   
In the event that EPEEF decides to repay a Renewable Energy Sub-
financing loan, EPEEF shall inform the Recipient of its decision and document its 
decision and keep the records for future review by the Bank and the Recipient. 
 
