Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054973 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Renewable Energy Resources Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 27, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054973 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF (the GEF Trust Fund Grant). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2;  
 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak 
(HBOR) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to HBOR, as provided in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
HBOR (Project Agreement) and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f) and  5.01 (a) thereof, means 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
Page  4
3
(ii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
 (o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
(vii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of 
Section 6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiaries” and “Beneficiary” mean collectively the individual 
energy end users developing or ready to develop renewable energy projects, legally 
established in the Recipient’s territory and individually the individual energy end user 
developing or ready to develop renewable energy projects, legally established in the 
Recipient’s territory, meeting the Eligibility Criteria (hereinafter defined) for assistance 
under Part B of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Contingent Loan Facility” means the revolving fund set forth by HBOR 
(as defined hereinafter) to provide contingent loans to eligible Beneficiaries for the 
purposes of carrying out Renewable Energy Sub-projects (as defined hereinafter), under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
“Contingent Loan Facility Account” means the account to be opened by 
HBOR (as defined hereinafter) for the purposes of the Contingent Loan Facility, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(d) 
“EPEEF” means the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency 
Fund established pursuant to the Law on Environmental Protection and Energy 
Efficiency Fund (Narodne Novine, No.107/03); 
 
Page  5
4
(e) 
“EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation Agreement” means the 
agreement to be entered into between the EPEEF and HBOR pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(f) 
 “Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria adopted by HBOR and EPEEF 
(hereinafter defined) and included in the PIP (hereinafter defined), for selection of 
Beneficiaries and Renewable Energy Sub-Project (hereinafter defined) under Part B of 
the Project; 
 
(g) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” or FMR means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(h) 
“HBOR” means Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak (the Croatian Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development) established pursuant to the Law on the Croatian 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (
Narodne Novine
,
No. 33/92, 76/93, 108/95 
and 8/96); 
 
(i) 
“HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to 
be entered into between the Recipient and HBOR pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan to be adopted by HBOR 
and EPEEF with respect to implementation of the Project, setting forth rules and 
regulations for implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(k) 
“PMU” means the Project’s management unit within HBOR referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated May 
10, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(m) 
“Renewable Energy Sub-project” means pre-investment activities in 
relation to a project for production or electrical and/or thermal energy from renewable 
energy resources, including, but not limited, to biomass and wind, and which is eligible 
for financing through a Sub-financing Loan made to the Beneficiary and eligible, in 
accordance with the Eligibility Criteria, for financing with proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant;  
 
(n) 
 “Renewable Energy Sub-project Contract” means a contract to be 
entered into between HBOR, EPEEF and a Beneficiary, the content and terms and 
conditions of which are set forth in the PIP (hereinafter defined), as the same may be 
Page  6
5
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to any Energy 
Renewable Sub-project Contract;  
 
(o)  
“Renewable Energy Sub-financing Loan” or “Loan” means a contingent 
loan to be provided by HBOR out of the Contingent Loan Facility to Beneficiaries from 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for the purposes of carrying out a Renewable 
Energy Sub-Project under Part B of the Project; and 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to five million five hundred thousand  Dollars ($5,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of consulting services training and operating costs 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by HBOR on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Loan to meet the reasonable cost 
of consulting services required for the Renewable Energy Sub-project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, (other than Part B.2 
of the Project) open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in HBOR on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010  or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
Page  7
6
cause HBOR to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of HBOR therein set forth, shall take all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, and cause to be taken all action,  necessary 
or appropriate to enable HBOR to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to HBOR under a HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement to be entered 
into between the Recipient and HBOR, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank; (ii) exercise its rights under the HBOR GEF Grant 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant , and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause 
HBOR to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient shall ensure that EPEEF enters into an agreement with 
HBOR, the EPEEF-HBOR Project Implementation Agreement, under terms acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 
(e)  
Upon completion of the Project, the Recipient and the Bank shall decide 
on the use of the outstanding balance of funds, if any, in the Contingent Loan Facility to 
be refunded by HBOR to the Recipient.  The Bank and the Recipient shall ensure that any 
such outstanding fund will be used in accordance with the objectives of GEF and for the 
purposes of protecting the global environment and promoting environmentally sound and 
sustainable economic development. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consulting services and training required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. Procurement of consulting services required for the Renewable 
Energy Sub-project under Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of the PIP. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, together with HBOR, update the Procurement Plan 
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the 
Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Bank’s approval. 
 
Page  8
7
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07 of the General Conditions (use of services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, respectively) shall be carried out by HBOR pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall cause HBOR to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall cause HBOR to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Recipient shall cause HBOR to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
sets forth the Special Account for the Project, showing the period 
opening balance, movements during the period and the period 
closing balance; 
 
Page  9
8
(iii) 
sets forth the Contingent Loan Fund, showing the period opening 
balance, movements during the period and the period closing 
balance; 
 
(iv) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(v) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
HBOR shall have failed to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement in a manner that has materially and adversely affected the implementation of 
the Project and has not remedied such failure for a reasonable period of time; and 
 
(b) 
The Recipient or HBOR shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement. in a 
manner that has materially and adversely affected the implementation of the Project and 
have not remedied this failure for a reasonable period of time. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a)  
The Project Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; 
 
Page  10
9
(b)  
The Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the 
HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement has been executed under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank; and  
 
(c)  
The Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the 
Project Implementation Plan has been adopted by HBOR and EPEEF under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the legal 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly executed by all parties and is 
legally binding in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement has been duly 
executed by the Recipient and is legally binding for the Recipient and HBOR in 
accordance with their terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date of ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  11
10
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Katanciceva 5 
 
10000
Zagreb 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(385) 1 492-2598 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By /s/ Ivan Suker 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Anand Seth 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed  
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
3,000,000  
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and  
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Training 
200,000 
100% 
 
(3) Operating 
Costs 
300,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Loans under                     
2,000,000
50% 
 
Part B of the Project 
 
TOTAL  
5,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;   
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the fee to be paid to HBOR on a 
quarterly basis pursuant to the annual Project management budget as agreed upon by the 
Bank and HBOR; and 
 
(d) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
reasonable cost of transportation, accommodation, per diem and interpretation services 
and cost of training courses and study tours for HBOR and EPEEF staff, selected 
Page  14
13
governmental and financial institutions and renewable energy businesses, public entities 
and non-governmental organizations, as such costs are agreed upon with the Bank. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) until the Bank 
has received satisfactory evidence that EPEEF and HBOR have adopted the EPEEF-
HBOR Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; 
(b) services of consulting firms costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and 
(c) training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
The Recipient shall promptly refund, and/or cause HBOR to refund, when 
applicable, to the Bank, the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds disbursed by the Bank, and, 
in case HBOR shall have failed to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement, 
the income generated by the Contingent Loan Facility,
 in whole or in part, at the Bank’s 
option, if: 
 
(a) 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust fund Grant account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Bank shall have determined, at any time that the Recipient or EPEEF 
or HBOR shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations under the GEF 
Grant Implementation Agreement or the HBOR GEF Grant Implementation Agreement 
respectively; 
 
(c) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(d) 
expenditures from the GEF Trust fund Grant Account were made under a 
contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or EPEEF or HBOR during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient or EPEEF or HBOR 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation; or 
 
Page  15
14
 
(e) 
the PIP has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a 
manner which in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or the attainment of its objectives. 
 
6. 
Refunds to the Bank of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds, made pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  16
15
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist in developing an economically and 
environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy resources in Croatia. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A:
Market Framework
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for designing and implementing policy and 
secondary legislation on the inclusion of renewable energy in the electricity sector; for 
development of streamlined permitting procedures for establishment or renewable energy 
production units; and support to the power market and system operators in developing 
procedures, guidelines and rules to facilitate the integration of renewable energy into the 
electricity supply system. 
 
2. 
Support for monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and information 
dissemination. 
 
3. 
Financing of Project management costs. 
 
Part B:
Sub-Project Preparation and Financing
1. 
Support for development of a sustainable pipeline of potential Sub-projects to be 
financed through the Contingent Loan Facility. 
 
2. 
Establishment of the Contingent Loan Facility for provision of Sub-financing to 
eligible Beneficiaries for financing of Sub-projects. 
 
3
Support for the creation of a national and possibly regional renewable energy 
advisory facility(ies), 
inter alia
,
providing information and know-how to private 
developers in the renewable energy sector. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009
.
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services, training and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $550,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
Page  18
17
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Page  19
18
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
