                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001558



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-54973)



                                       ON A

    GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.5 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                      FOR A

                 RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES PROJECT



                                November 29, 2010




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central/South Europe and Baltics Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2010)

                            Currency Unit = HRK
                            HRK 1.00 = US$ 0.183
                            US$ 1.00 = HRK 5.46

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CERA      Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency
CLF       Contingent Loan Facility
CO2       Carbon Dioxide
DSO       Distribution System Operator
EPEEF     Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
FMS       Financial Management Specialist
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEO       Global Environmental Objective
GoC       Government of Croatia
HBOR      Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
          Development)
HEP       Hrvatska Elektropriveda (Croatian Electricy Company)
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion (and Results) Report
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
MoELE     Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship
MoEPPPC   Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
PD        Project Document
PCG       Partial Credit Guarantee
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPP       Purchasing Power Parity
RE        Renewable Energy
REAF      Renewable Energy Advisory Facility
tCO2      Ton of CO2
toe       Tons of oil equivalent
TSO       Transmission System Operator


                        Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                      Country Director:   Peter C. Harrold
                       Sector Manager:    Ranjit J. Lamech
                  Project Team Leader:    Peter Johansen
                   ICR Primary Author     Victor Loksha
                                   CROATIA
                      RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 19
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 21
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 22
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 24
  Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 25
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
  MAP IBRD 33394R1 ................................................................................................... 48
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Renewable Energy
Country:                Croatia                 Project Name:
                                                                         Resources Project
Project ID:             P071464                 L/C/TF Number(s):        TF-54973
ICR Date:               11/29/2010              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         CROATIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                DEVELOPMENT
                                                                         BANK
Original Total
                        USD 5.5M                Disbursed Amount:        USD 4.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.0M
Environmental Category: C                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 HBOR
 Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/06/2002     Effectiveness:            11/24/2005        11/23/2005
Appraisal:            02/21/2005     Restructuring(s):                           03/30/2010
Approval:             06/23/2005     Mid-term Review:          10/25/2007        12/15/2008
                                     Closing:                  01/01/1950        05/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:              Moderately Satisfactory
                             Moderately         Implementing                  Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                           Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                 Moderately         Overall Borrower              Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory       Performance:                Unsatisfactory



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                           No                                           Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  55                   55
Renewable energy                                                   45                   45


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                     29                   29
Law reform                                                         14                   14
Pollution management and environmental health                      29                   29
Regional integration                                               14                   14
Regulation and competition policy                                  14                   14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou             Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Peter C. Harrold                   Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                   Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:      Peter Johansen                     Peter Johansen
ICR Team Leader:          Peter Johansen
ICR Primary Author:       Victor B. Loksha




                                             ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The Global Environment Objective is "to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a
continuous basis by overcoming barriers to implementation of renewable energy".

  The Project Development Objective is "to assist in developing an economically and
environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy resources in Croatia".

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                 Introduction of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RER-based
Indicator 1 :
                 power and heat production
                                            Introduction of
                                                                             Introduction of new
                                            new Energy Law
                                                                             Energy Law and
                                            and incentive
                                                                             incentive
                                            framework for
                                                                             framework for
                                            RER-based power
                                                                             RER-based power
                                            and heat
                 No feed-in tariff; legal                                    and heat production
Value                                       production
                 financial and technical                                     including tariff
(quantitative or                            including tariff
                 barriers prevent                                            design, sub-laws
Qualitative)                                design, sub-laws
                 realization of RE projects                                  on grid-code,
                                            on grid-code,
                                                                             licensing and
                                            licensing and
                                                                             permitting
                                            permitting
                                                                             procedures.
                                            procedures.
                                                                             Training of
                                            Training of
                                                                             stakeholders
                                            stakeholders
Date achieved 07/01/2005                    03/31/2010                        05/31/2010
Comments
                 Key legislation and regulatory framework was introduced, creating an enabling
(incl. %
                 environment for investing in RER-based power.
achievement)
                 Total number of RER projects reaching financial closure as a result of CLF
Indicator 2 : including capacity to be installed (MW) and amount of electricity and heat to be
                 generated
                                            5 projects with a
Value                                                                        1 project with a
                                            capacity of 83
(quantitative or 0                                                           capacity of 23 MW
                                            MW and 188,340
Qualitative)                                                                 and 50,600 MWh
                                            MWh



                                               iii
Date achieved      07/01/2005              03/31/2010                              05/31/2010
Comments           20% of project numbers
(incl. %           28% of MW (for 1 project)
achievement)       27% of MWh (for 1 project)
Indicator 3 :      Reduction of CO2 emissions from project activity
Value
(quantitative or   0                           54,417 tCO2                         17,710 tCO2
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/01/2005                  03/31/2010                          05/31/2010
Comments
                   33% - this is all from the 23 MW wind farm project, which is the only one
(incl. %
                   having reached financial closure
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Increased share of "new" RER in national energy supply
Value
(quantitative or   0                           3.5%                                0.32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/01/2005                    03/31/2010                         05/31/2010
Comments           9% achievement. The GoC has fallen behind on their time table for RE
(incl. %           development. However, given the number of projects under developement it is
achievement)       realistic that the original targets will be met with a two-year delay.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                    Target Years
                   Number of contingent loans signed under CLF component for RER project
Indicator 1 :
                   development
Value
(quantitative or   0                           18                                  15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/01/2005                03/31/2010                          05/31/2010
Comments           83% achievement based on number of loans. Since the full amount of $2 million
(incl. %           is committed the main reason is that the average size of loans has been bigger
achievement)       than anticipated



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                              IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     06/06/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/04/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.55
  3     12/21/2007              Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              0.55



                                                    iv
  4    06/26/2008       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory   0.55
  5    05/11/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   1.45
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  6    03/26/2010                                                           2.51
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      Extension of closing date by
 03/30/2010                      MU            2.51
                                                      two months to May 31, 2010.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
 
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Issues: Croatia has good potential for renewable energy (RE), with a
significant resource base. Because Croatia is likely to be given targets for the share of energy
generated from renewable energy resources (RER) as part of the accession negotiations with the
EU, it has an additional incentive for RER development beyond energy security, local
employment, and global and local environmental concerns.

At the time of appraisal, April 2005, Croatia was meeting two-thirds of its energy requirements
from domestic production (mainly oil and gas). However, energy production was declining and
energy imports would need to increase dramatically if economic growth was to be sustained.
Croatia was faced with full international prices for these imports, and with large investments
needed for reconstruction and expansion of the energy infrastructure, the financial burden on the
Government was high. This burden was best mitigated through creating an institutional and
regulatory environment to attract private financing to the sector. In addition, the scarce energy
resources had to be used in a way that represented the highest value to the Croatian economy. At
the same time, the transmission and distribution system operator was required to integrate
renewable energy into its system but was worried that addition of new intermittent sources based
on RER could create problems. To ensure a smooth integration of new renewable sources would
require training of dispatch managers, as well as software tools for system management.

The Government attempted to address these challenges with an Energy Law approved in July
2001. The Law provided, inter alia, for the development of renewable energy resources and for a
minimum share of total energy supply to be met from renewable energy. This market share-based
policy would build sustained interest in the clean energy market and market guarantees for
potential clean energy entrants. However, secondary legislation including feed-in tariffs for RER
would need to be put in place.

Rationale for Bank Involvement
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) support was seen as critical in helping establish an
enabling framework and opening a market for RER technologies. It would focus on overcoming
barriers to RER development through commercially sustainable activities. Without GEF
participation, private developers would be less likely or unable to develop and finance projects;
and without GEF participation there would be no significant resources to build knowledge about
renewable energy among entrepreneurs, utility officials and employees, commercial banks, local
government, and other stakeholders. Ultimately, GEF support would lead to sustainable, long-
term reductions in Greenhouse Gas emissions and help Croatia join modern industrialized nations
in efforts to reduce global warming. GEF financial support and Bank implementation efforts
would also help create the framework that would allow Croatia to achieve its future EU-mandated
renewable energy supply targets quicker or for more ambitious targets to be set during the
upcoming negotiations.

The Bank's assistance would support development of rational secondary legislation, clear
approval procedures, and a pipeline of projects for investment. These market conditioning and
project preparation activities would help remove barriers to investments in the sector in a
relatively short period and allow for development of the market.



                                               1
1.2 Original Project Objectives (PDO/GEO) and Key Indicators
The global environmental objective was to reduce GHG emissions on a continuous basis by
overcoming barriers to implementation of renewable energy (RE). Performance indicators for the
global objective included: (a) Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions at the national and project
levels; and (b) Increased share of "new" RE resources in the national energy supply. The project's
development objective was to help develop an economically and environmentally sustainable
market for renewable energy resources in Croatia. Development of this market would support
Croatia in its EU accession efforts. The performance indicators for the second part included: (a)
Introduction of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RER power and heat
production (including tariff design, sub-laws on grid code, licensing and permitting procedures,
and training of stakeholders); and (b) Total number of RER projects reaching financial closure as
a result of the Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) including the capacity installed (MW) and amount
of electricity and heat generated (MWh).

In addition, the project aimed to make Croatia's economy less reliant on imported electricity and
fossil fuels, reduce overall emissions, lead to a higher degree of local employment (equipment
manufacturing), and create an attractive climate for private investment in RE.

1.3 Revised PDO/GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (MoELE) was the key partner and
beneficiary along with the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF). The
Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) was the Implementing Agency and
benefitted from the capacity building that took place in the Project Implementation Unit
consisting of a Project Manager and a Procurement Specialist. Other beneficiaries included the
Market Operator (MO), the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (CERA) and the vertically
integrated electricity company HEP. Other partners included private sector developers and local
private sector banks, both of whom provided co-financing to renewable energy projects, as well
as NGOs.

1.5 Original Components
The project included two components:

1. Market Framework (GEF grant financing US$2.0 million). This component comprised
   technical assistance focused on supporting the Government in designing and implementing
   policy and secondary legislation on the inclusion of RE in the electricity sector. The
   component also included support to the MO, HEP (who is both the distribution system
   operator (DSO) and the transmission system operator (TSO), CERA and local governments in
   streamlining the permitting process. Technical assistance was comprised primarily of legal
   and technical support and advice to the institutions and government entities involved in
   creating the regulatory framework for the sector. Capacity building activities were undertaken
   within the same institutions to implement the new regulations and system. Additional
   beneficiaries included the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship (MoELE), the
   Ministry of Environmental Protection Physical Planning and Construction (MoEPPPC), the
   Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF), the state electricity
   company HEP (in its capacity as TSO and DSO), NGOs, the banking community, policy-
   makers, the regulatory authority, and private developers. The PIU was also financially



                                                2
    supported under this component. A monitoring, evaluation and information dissemination
    subcomponent was also included.

2. Project Preparation (GEF Contingent Loan Facility of US$2.0 million and grant financing of
   US$1.5 million; total US$3.5 million). The contingent loan mechanism and supporting
   activities were used to identify candidate projects for investment and to cover initial project
   development cost (feasibility studies). The contingent loan facility (CLF, US$2.0 million)
   provided loans to qualified project developers on a cost-sharing basis. The loans would be
   capitalized in the project financing and repaid, or if the projects did not move to
   implementation the contingent loan would be converted into a grant. Funds that were
   recovered would be recycled and used in future projects as specified in a contract signed
   between Ministry of Finance, MoELE and HBOR. In addition to and separate from the CLF,
   US$1.5 million would be used for project development and project investment support.
   Project development support focused on development of a sustainable pipeline of potential
   projects that could provide deal flow for the CLF. This was facilitated by creation of
   renewable energy advisory facility (REAF) inside MoELE that provided information and
   know-how to private developers and equipment suppliers. Project investment support
   included capacity building and financial advice to EPEEF, commercial banks and municipal
   finance authorities.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
A Monitoring, Evaluation, and Information sub-component was initially included and allocated
an amount of $0.35 million from the GEF, but was not implemented as originally designed. The
PIU found the M&E requirements to be straightforward and was able to carry out these
requirements without procuring special consultant support.

A project restructuring was approved on March 30, 2010 extending the closing date by two
months to May 31, 2010 to allow signing of six contracts that were pending approval under the
Contingent Loan facility.

On October 5, 2010 an amount of US$1,463,864.40 was cancelled from the Grant since this
amount was undisbursed after expiration of a four month grace period following project closure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation was facilitated by a GEF PDF-B grant (US$350,000, approved on February
19, 2003). Its utilization started prior to appraisal and continued until September 30, 2005. The
activities financed under the grant included support to MoELE in preparing a framework for
introducing feed-in tariffs. The grant covered: (i) analytical work to help determine the optimum
share of RE in the supply mix of the country and the incentive structure for RE project
development and implementation; (ii) identifying ways to streamline the permitting and licensing
process for wind and small hydro; (iii) developing the structure, terms and conditions for use of
contingent loans: and (iv) developing a draft project implementation plan, including monitoring
and reporting.




                                                3
The project design described in the GEF Project Document (May 2005) was sensible and logical.
The project would address two major interrelated barriers to RE development: (i) lack of an
enabling legal/regulatory environment, including appropriate price incentives for independent
investors in RER; and (ii) lack of well-prepared commercially viable projects ­ partly due to the
first barrier. The project would have two components ­ each addressing one of these major
barriers: the Market Framework component consisting of technical assistance aimed at improving
the legal/regulatory environment; and the Project Preparation component specifically dedicated to
developing bankable RE projects.

Building on lessons learned. The Project Document reflects an awareness of the risk of
dedicating resources to project preparation when the legal/regulatory environment is not ready
(e.g., reference is made to numerous earlier programs aiming to support early-stage project
development ­ including USAID-funded programs in the Philippines, Indonesia, Guatemala, and
Brazil, as well as a grant program to India for biomass cogeneration). The lesson from such prior
projects, as stated in the Project Document, was that "projects produced good feasibility studies
but had little chance of commercial success because other barriers, such as lack of clear pricing
policy, had not been resolved." This risk would be addressed by the extensive TA under the first
component aimed at improving the legal/regulatory environment. Still, the Bank underestimated
the time it would take for the legal/regulatory improvements to take place. As a result,
implementation of the planned Project Preparation activities (Component 2 of the project) was
delayed for almost two years.

The start of implementation was also held back due to unresolved issues concerning the role of
EPEEF. Both the GEF Project Document and the Project Implementation Plan envisaged a very
important role for the Fund - both as a partner in technical appraisals of CLF projects and as a co-
financier. A contract between HBOR and EPEEF regarding the CLF was signed in May 2006 but
practical arrangements were not finalized until January 2007.

For the Market Framework Component, the Bank did take into account the experience of earlier
successful efforts in other countries, including Germany, Denmark, and Austria. This helped the
Bank select the system of feed-in tariffs as the most appropriate incentive system to be supported
by the Government of Croatia.

A Quality-at-Entry Review for the project was held in June 2005 resulting in a Satisfactory
rating. The review panel found no major shortcomings but felt that the Project Document would
have benefitted from an extended discussion of the current country economic and regional energy
context.

The risk matrix generally addressed the risks that proved relevant. In some cases the risk ratings
assigned in the matrix were inflated and in some cases, significant risks were not identified. For
example, the risk of the private sector not being willing or able to finance project development
costs was rated as high. The recent developments under the project, however, have demonstrated
that, under the improved legal/regulatory framework for RE investments, the private sector is able
and willing to finance project development ­ including the required 50% cost-sharing
contribution and borrowing from CLF for the other half. One more type of risk peculiar to CLF
was the moral hazard faced by borrowers from CLF due to the option to default on the loan and
have it converted into a grant in case of failure to reach financial closure. No such instances have
occurred so far and it is likely to be mitigated by the fact that the developer would also lose his
50% contribution, but this is still a relevant risk that ought to have been included in the matrix.



                                                 4
2.2 Implementation
The project was only restructured at the end of project implementation to extend the closing date
by two months.

Effectiveness and establishment of PIU. The project became effective on November 24, 2005,
five months after the Board date. The relatively late project effectiveness was due to legal issues
that needed clarification during finalization of the Project Implementation Plan and the Grant
Implementation Agreement between the Government of Croatia and HBOR, which were both
effectiveness conditions. The head of the PIU was hired by HBOR in December, 2005.

Delayed passing of vital secondary legislation. In July 2007, the important secondary legislation
was passed by Parliament, including technology-specific feed-in-tariffs for RE. This was a major
milestone but it came much later than expected during appraisal, which estimated a target date of
end-2005. In retrospect it is clear that this milestone should have been made a condition for Board
presentation or for effectiveness. The delay, which was caused by the reaction to the proposed
feed-in tariffs from vested sector interests, pushed back the activities under the Project
Preparation Component (Component 2) by almost two years and the CLF became fully
operational only in late 2007. Several of the technical assistance (TA) activities for market
framework development could only be effectively defined when the problems and barriers
became more visible through the implementation of the system of measures to support RER. This
meant that some of the TA got pushed into the last year of implementation.

Progress on project components. Even with this delay Component 1 (Market Framework) has
produced some significant results in such as areas as RE grid integration and facilitating
procedures for registration and processing of applications from RER project developers for use of
land and obtaining state support. The fact that the Market Framework Component was available
to support MoELE and to prepare TA that could help persuade skeptical stakeholders to give up
their resistance to deployment of RER was of great benefit and helped moving toward the
development objectives This contributed to a general view of the Component as largely
successful by both the Bank and the Croatian counterparts despite the fact that some of the TA
was delayed and some activities had to be cancelled due to the implementation delays.

Component 2 (Project Preparation, $3.5 million GEF) was implemented in close cooperation with
EPEEF. Specifically, EPEEF staff were appointed to carry out technical due diligence of RE
projects proposed for the CLF. In parallel, a Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF) and a
RE Registry were established within MoELE to support the development of pre-feasibility studies
for projects in early stages of preparation and establish a registry of such project claims for land
and licenses at MoELE. REAF also dealt with broader issues of support to RE and provided
information and practical guidance to project developers. Progress under the CLF itself was slow
in coming. While the facility was launched in late 2007, the first loans were signed only in the
second half of 2008. The slow market up-take in the beginning was partly due to a general lack of
knowledge about the facility among the key RER stakeholders. There were also a number of
complaints about the initial lending conditions, especially a too low ceiling amount of
US$150,000, a too short allowed implementation period and extensive bureaucracy. These issues
were, belatedly, addressed by HBOR and EPEEF following recommendations in the Bank's mid-
term review in December 2008. The Bank and HBOR agreed to frontload disbursements for sub-
projects; other measures were also taken to facilitate disbursement, including increasing sub-loan
limit and pay-back time and to include hydro projects under CLF financing. The demand for
loans started to pick up as the benefits of the favorable treatment of RE investments became
known to the market. Another important factor was the effects of the financial crisis that meant a
tightening of the credit market in Croatia, which made the CLF an attractive option to access

                                                 5
financing for project preparation. The combined effect of the delayed launch of the CLF and the
slow initial market up-take meant that even though by the Closing Date the CLF was fully
subscribed with a US$2 million loan portfolio distributed among 15 different borrowers, most of
the contracts were signed during the last two months. Consequently, only one of the supported
projects managed to reach financial closure before project closing, which was the main measure
of success defined in the Project Document.

Joint Portfolio Review and Mid-Term Review. In December 2008, a mid-term review (MTR)
concluded that:

       ·   The overall justification for the project remained strong: the support from the Market
           Framework component was seen by MoELE as vital for RER development in Croatia;
           MoELE's registry of RER now included more than 270 applications from developers;
           several applications for CLF loans were received as well.
       ·   The project was unlikely to meet its quantitative targets before closing. This conclusion
           applied not only to the project-level targets but also to the Croatia-wide target for the
           share of renewable energy in the country's electricity supply: Croatia still had less than
           1% of its electricity coming from renewables, while the target for 2010 was 4.5%.
       ·   A restructuring including a revised Results Framework was deemed appropriate by the
           MTR.

This echoed the findings of a Joint Portfolio Review that took place immediately before the MTR
and recommended streamlining the results framework and reducing the targets.

Restructuring and extension request. In May 2009, the project's global environmental objective
(GEO)1 rating was downgraded from S to MS because of the lower than expected rate of
implementation of RER projects in Croatia. During summer 2009 the team discussed
restructuring with HBOR and MoELE including a one-year extension of the closing date.
However, the discussions between the Bank and HBOR/MoELE on a possible restructuring were
slow in getting underway and the matter seemed to be given rather low priority on both sides
resulting in that the request for restructuring and extension came from MoELE only on January
26, 2010. At this late point, in the opinion of the Bank, only an extension of two months would be
justified ­ to enable processing of the CLF loans ready for signing by end-March 2010. The main
reason cited by the Bank was that only 35 percent of this amount had been disbursed two months
before the closing date and that the likelihood that this project could fully achieve its stated
objectives was quite unlikely even with an additional year of implementation.

The final ISR (#6, March 2010) was approved with moderately unsatisfactory ratings for both
GEO and IP. The downgrade for the GEO rating was because the project was only likely to fulfill
around 20-25% of the quantitative targets set in the Results Framework before project closing.
Notwithstanding the downgrade, the Bank acknowledges the significant results that the project
had achieved in establishing the RE framework, "with an impact going way beyond the project,
and generating hundreds of RE proposals."

Impact of implementation delays. The implementation period for several key components of the
project (notably, the Project Preparation component/CLF sub-component) began 18 to 20 months
later than originally planned. The closing date of the project, however, was extended only by two

1
    The format of the project's ISRs did not provide for a PDO rating distinct from GEO.


                                                      6
months ­ mainly to allow all the CLF projects in the pipeline to be signed before the closing date.
As a result, many of the TA activities that were planned to be carried out under the project could
not be implemented before the closing date and had to be cancelled. Furthermore, the anticipated
results of the CLF could not be captured within the implementation period. This has had the
following consequences:
    ·   The value of CLF loans placed has been limited to $2 million, which is the amount of the
        GEF grant allocated for the purpose. In contrast, appraisal estimates assumed that this
        value would be $3.6 million as it would include new loans financed by repayments from
        the borrowers ­ the RE project developers.
    ·   The repayment of the first loans taken by the RE project developers from the CLF has not
        yet come due at the time of the ICR. As a result, no track record of repayment of
        borrowed funds by RE project developers to the CLF is available for analysis.
    ·   Contribution from EPEEF for loans converted into grants has not materialized thus far,
        and the need for such contribution in the future is difficult to assess at this time.
    ·   The length of the experience of the CLF operation under GEF grant support and the
        modalities developed in the project implementation plan (PIP) was cut considerably
        shorter than planned and is thus hard to assess. For the Croatian counterparts, it is now
        being replaced by the new experience of operating the facility without access to GEF
        grant funds.

Under Component 1 (Market Framework), the results of TA contracts have been well received by
the beneficiaries, including the Ministry of Economy (MoELE), the Transmission System
Operator (TSO), Distribution System Operator (DSO), and the Energy Market Operator
(HROTE). The best results came from support which the beneficiaries saw as relevant to their
operational needs. However, an important contract that would update the cost-benefit analysis
financed under PDF-B (the cost curves informing the selection of the appropriate level of the
feed-in tariffs and the optimal amount of RE produced in the country) had to be dropped because
of time constraints introduced by the delayed start.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. Some indicators included in the Results Framework ­ such as RER capacity
installed and energy produced as well as carbon dioxide emission reductions produced by the
project ­ would be more appropriate for a full-scale investment project, whereas the real output of
this project was essentially technical assistance and project feasibility/design documentation. The
inclusion of the nation-wide share of RE in the energy balance as a project performance indicator
was questionable due to the fact that the project only provided support to the pre-investment
phase.

M&E Implementation. A separate Monitoring, Evaluation, and Information component was
initially included and allocated an amount of $0.35 million from GEF resources, but not
implemented. The PIU found the M&E requirements to be straightforward and as such, carried
them out through tracking results in a simple spread-sheet in-house rather than contracting an
additional consultant.

M&E Utilization. The monitoring of the project progress and the results framework indicators
clearly indicated that the project was falling behind its quantitative targets. This was a clear
conclusion from the mid-term review. Even though this gave rise to discussions on a possible
restructuring it was not followed up by an official restructuring request before the project had
almost reached its closing date. This lack of pro-activity from both the Bank and HBOR indicates

                                                7
that the M&E results were not properly utilized in order to ensure that the project would reach its
development objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance. This was an Environmental Category "C" project. No environmental
assessment per se was therefore required by the Bank. Environmental impact studies for the CLF
projects studies followed the procedures for environmental compliance for such projects specified
in the Project Implementation Plan.

Fiduciary compliance. The Financial Management (FM) rating for the project has been
satisfactory in five ISRs out of six. It was downgraded to MS only once ­ in May 2009 ­ when it
was pointed out that the Financial Monitoring Reports failed to include Government
contributions. The FM rating in the final ISR (#6, March 2010) was satisfactory again as
Government contribution was included in the Financial Monitoring Report for the first quarter of
2010.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The questions of project implementation continuity relate to the CLF. Since CLF sub-projects
typically require a two-year window to complete, all CLF projects but one were still ongoing by
the closing date for the grant (May 31, 2010). According to agreements reached with HBOR and
EPEEF, the CLF will continue and recycled funds will be used for new CLF loans in the future.
The PIP developed under the project and modified as appropriate to reflect the post-closure
realities will be used as the basis for future operation of the CLF.

Continuation and possible expansion of the CLF is addressed by HBOR in Annex 7: "Based on
the experience of the GEF project, HBOR is considering introduction of a similar loan program
such as CLF, but from its own funds." However, such a commitment from HBOR cannot be
expected before they have experience from the first round of CLF.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The current Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Croatia for FY09-FY12 focuses on
assisting Croatia in joining the EU. While renewable energy is not specifically mentioned among
the goals supporting the accession, a number of broader themes are emphasized that speak to the
continued relevance of RER development. These include: (a) reducing vulnerability of the
economy to oil price shocks; (b) increasing the sustainability of long-term development; and (c)
climate change mitigation. The project will contribute in the following way: (a) RER would
contribute to reduce the dependence on imported fuels and could potentially be used as a
substitute for small oil fired boilers and oil fired power generation facilities in island
communities; (b) a development that relies more on local renewable resources is more sustainable
because it provides better security of supply and fosters local economic development and
employment: and (c) development of RER will serve to reduce Croatia's carbon footprint by
substituting fossil fuels in power generation and space heating.

3.2 Achievement of Project Objectives
To evaluate the degree of success in achieving the objectives of this project, four final outcome
indicators and one intermediate outcome indicators have been assessed. The indicators are based
on the Results Framework established at appraisal, including the detailed "Arrangements for

                                                8
results monitoring" table (Project Document, pp. 31-32), and are consistent with the description
of performance indicators given in the main text of the Project Document (page 4).

Final outcome indicators

Outcome Indicator 1: Introduction of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RER
based power and heat production.

Key legislation and regulatory framework were introduced, creating an enabling environment for
investment in RER based power. MoELE rates the technical and legal assistance provided as very
valuable in enabling and operating the RER licensing process and in resolving backlog cases
related to the occupation of sites in the wind sector through the creation of a RER projects
Registry 2. The key achievements of the project in terms of institutional capacity building are:
    · Support to the secondary legislation introducing technology-specific feed-in tariffs as a
        first and foremost precondition for investment in RER.
    · The establishment of the Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF) within MoELE
        and its connection to a RER Registry, which currently contains more than 300 pipeline
        projects, has been a very successful capacity building activity.
    · High-quality TA to the Market Operator ­ e.g., on the methodology for the consumer
        surcharges to raise funds to finance the feed-in tariffs and for the introduction of
        guarantees of origin.
    · High-quality TA to the grid operators (TSO and DSO) ­ e.g., for the integration of
        intermittent energy sources (wind) into the national grid system.
    · Increased awareness of the potential investors and financial intermediaries (such as
        banks) about the improved conditions for investment in RE projects.
    · TA in development of the RER market system including streamlined procedure for RER
        projects and legal support for revision of secondary and tertiary RER legislation.

Outcome Indicator 2: Total number of RER projects reaching financial closure as a result of
CLF including the capacity installed (MW) and amount of electricity and heat generated (MWh).

While 15 CLF loans have been made, only one project ­ a 23 MW wind power project at Glun a
developed by Tudi Elektro Centar d.o.o. ­ has reached financial closure. The projected electric
output of the installation is 50.6 GWh per year. The appraisal target was for 5 projects with a total
design capacity of 83 MW, electric output of 188.3 GWh/a and heat output of 7 GWh/a to have
reached financial closure by the end of 2009.

Outcome Indicator 3: Reductions in CO2 emissions related to the project.

CO2 emission reductions at the project level are predicted values based on the feasibility studies
since none of the installations designed under the CLF have been built yet. The first emission
reductions of 17,710 tCO2e/year are expected to materialize by the end of 2010 due to the
construction of the aforementioned 23 MW wind power plant - financed in 2009. The appraisal
estimate was 54,417 tCO2e/year.




2
    See Annex 7


                                                 9
Outcome Indicator 4: Increased share of "new" RER in national energy supply.

The value of "new" RER (i.e., renewable energy excluding hydro power larger than 10 MW per
installation) was 0.32% at project closing. The appraisal target was 3.5%. The PIU notes that the
Croatian government's original goal of reaching a 5.8% share in national electricity consumption
in 2010 has shifted to 2012. This setback is to a large degree due to the delay in adopting
secondary legislation introduced only in July 2007.

Intermediate outcome indicators

Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1: The number of contingent loans signed under CLF
component for RER project development activities.

By the closing date of the project, 15 loans were signed, each supporting one project in the CLF
pipeline. This falls somewhat short of the 18 loans by the end of 2009 targeted at appraisal.
Nevertheless, the entire allocated amount of $2 million from GEF resources had been disbursed
to the CLF account by the end of the project.

Overall assessment

The Global Environment Objective was to reduce GHG emissions on a continuous basis by
overcoming barriers to implementation of renewable energy (RE). Overall, the project has
significantly improved the environment for RE investments, and now the ground is prepared for
such investments to proceed on a substantial scale. In addition to the Glun a wind project that has
already reached financial closure, the CLF pipeline developed by the PIU includes 14 other
projects scheduled to reach financial closure by the end of 2011. However, uncertainties remain
about both the amount and the timing of such financing

The Project's development objective was to help develop an economically and environmentally
sustainable market for renewable energy resources in Croatia. While the project holds great
promise for developing the potential for RE and thereby reducing the emissions of greenhouse
gases, the hard evidence of the removal of the legal, financial, and technical barriers for such
investments remains elusive.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Important progress has been achieved on the Market Framework Component at a reasonable cost
level. As a result of this support MoELE has a large pipeline of RER and cogeneration projects
that have alredy obtained the so-called Preliminary Energy Approval (in November 2010 the
pipeline consisted of more than 300 different projects). However, the efficiency of the Project
Preparation Component is more difficult to assess. It was assumed that the amount of investment
in renewable energy supported by CLF would reach $120.9 million by the end of 2011. Based on
the ongoing CLF funded activities, the amount of expected investment in CLF-supported projects
may potentially exceed $300 million, should all fifteen projects supported reach financial closure.
However, the timetable for the financing and construction phases of these projects is uncertain as
is the likelihood of reaching financial closure. The actual efficiency of the CLF part of the project
can only be judged when all the CLF supported project preparations are finalized. As a
consequence the efficiency is conservatively rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.



                                                 10
Estimates of net present values and financial rates of return for the 15 CLF projects are included
in Annex 3. The estimates show that all 15 projects are expected to be profitable with internal
rates of return ranging from 6% to 20%.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

GEO Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project has contributed significantly to the introduction of an enabling regulatory and
incentive framework for RER based power production. However, the project's measurable
outcomes, with respect to the achievement of both the global environmental and the overall
development objective, can only support a moderately unsatisfactory rating. The lack of
measurable achievement is partly due to the slow start of most of the activities under the Project
Preparation Component, which were held up by the delay in enacting the secondary legislation on
renewable energy.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Introduction of incentives for investment in RE in Croatia, like in most other countries, entails
some additional cost for the final consumer. In Croatia, the Energy Market Operator collects a
small surcharge (currently 0.005 HRK/kWh or about 1% of the average tariff for electricity) on
overall electricity consumption by customers ­ to create cash reserves to support the payment of
preferential prices (feed-in tariffs) to renewable energy generators as well as independent co-
generators of heat and power. At present, the surcharge typically does not exceed 1-2% of the
total energy bill of an average family. The feed-in tariffs, applied only to electricity produced by
RE generators, are substantially higher than the average tariff for electricity. However, the impact
on the final consumer is still quite minimal as the share of such electricity in the overall energy
balance remains very small.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The ICR team has found that both major counterparts ­ HBOR and MoELE ­ believe that the
project has contributed substantially to the development of the enabling regulatory framework for
RER-based power production in Croatia (including tariff design, by-laws on grid code, licensing
and permitting procedures). HBOR and MoELE have summarized the most important legal and
regulatory breakthroughs in a table included as part of Annex 7.

The establishment of the Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF) within MoELE and its
connection to a RER Registry, which currently contains more than 300 pipeline projects, has been
a very successful capacity building activity.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Feedback was requested from the RE project developers who have received financing from the
CLF. To facilitate their feedback, a brief survey was developed and translated into Croatian. The
answers are summarized in Annex 5 (Beneficiary Survey Results). On the positive side the


                                                11
respondents confirmed that the CLF facility had been crucial for their potential to develop RER
projects. On the negative side it was criticized that there was no guarantee for funding in the
investment phase and that no guarantees were included to reduce the (exorbitant) collateral
requirements of Croatian banks.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk is assessed to be Significant, reflecting a high degree of uncertainty for the results of the
Project Preparation component, while giving some credit to the likelihood of sustainability under
the Market Framework component.

Market Framework. The development and GEO impact from the Market Framework
component is likely to be sustainable. The issuance in July 2007 of the secondary legislation
supporting the feed-in-tariff and the procedural and institutional improvements introduced
suggest that an enabling environment for RE investments has been created and will continue in
the future.

Project Preparation (CLF component). Sustainability of the development and GEO impact
from the CLF depends greatly on the success of the RE project developers in securing financing
for their projects. As noted, the CLF pipeline currently contains 15 projects, but only one of them
has reached financial closure so far. The PIU at HBOR estimates that 10 - 13 projects out of 15
may reach financial closure by the end of 2011. However, the success in finding financiers is far
from certain ­ especially in light of the financial crisis, which has resulted in a general tightening
of credit availability. Indeed, the assumption used at appraisal was that 54% of the projects
developed under CLF would fail to secure financing for the investment phase. The extent to
which this assumption proves to be correct is difficult to evaluate at present. On the one hand,
none of the project developers has defaulted on the repayment of the contingent loan. This may
suggest that their plans to proceed with the investment phase are on track and finding financiers is
not a problem. On the other hand, the fact that only one CLF project out of 15 has reached
financial closure suggests that such a conclusion at this stage would be premature.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
During appraisal, the Bank made a good-faith effort to take into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, environmental, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management. A number of alternatives and
lessons of earlier operations were considered in the project design. The Bank also made the
preparation of the project implementation plan (PIP) a condition of effectiveness ­ in an effort to
ensure smooth implementation of the project. These efforts were duly rewarded with a
Satisfactory rating from the QAG Quality-at-Entry review.

However, in hindsight the Bank underestimated the time it would take for the Croatian
government to pass the key elements of legal/regulatory framework (notably, the feed-in tariffs)
into law. As a result, the planned Project Preparation activities (Component 2 of the project) were
on hold for too long. With this in mind, it is possible that a lighter level of engagement (such as

                                                 12
analytical and advisory activities supported by e.g. an ESMAP grant prior to PDF-B) should have
been exercised until the country demonstrated tangible progress toward establishing the needed
legal/regulatory framework.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Bank allocated sufficient budget and staff resources, and the supervision missions proceeded
with adequate regularity. The task team regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted the Croatian
counterparts about issues of concern and urged them to take corrective action. Both MoELE and
HBOR have been very appreciative of the support provided by the task team and states in their
project evaluation (see Annex 7) that "the Bank team was very experienced, very cooperative and
very often available in Croatia through the missions. Communication and support were
excellent."

However, the quality of the Bank's supervision could have been improved by earlier recognition
and proactive response to the problem of cumulative delays in the introduction by the Croatian
government of the enabling framework (secondary legislation) for RE. Even with the assumption
that nothing could be done to accelerate the passage of the secondary legislation by the
Parliament, the Bank could have taken steps to improve the chances of the project to achieve its
development objectives. This could have been achieved by restructuring the project to adjust it to
the new timetable. The best moment for the restructuring would probably have been just after the
Government's adoption of the secondary legislation in July 2007. The restructuring proposal
could have focused on the need to extend the project implementation period by about 18 months
to make up for the time lost due to late introduction of the enabling secondary legislation. The
rationale for the extension of the closing date would have been strong based on: (a) well
documented delays on the Government's side and the fact that the implementation of the Project
Preparation component was held up by 18 - 20 months as a result; and (b) the positive momentum
created by the eventual introduction of the enabling framework in July 2007, supporting the
argument that the achievement of the project's development objectives was still likely.

The mid-term review probably should have been conducted shortly after July 2007, rather than in
December 2008.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Based on the Bank's performance during project preparation and implementation, as discussed
above, overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Recipient
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
MoELE was the main representative of the Recipient (the Republic of Croatia) in this project.
The development of RER has been high enough on the Government's agenda to require MoELE
to institute a Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Department under the Directorate of
Energy, and to create EPEEF and REAF with a mandate to promote RE projects. Together, these
agencies have achieved impressive results in terms of introduction of new legislative/regulatory
framework. This framework has also made it possible to create CLF as a dedicated project
preparation facility.

                                               13
However, despite the best efforts of the staff of MoELE's renewable energy unit, the delays with
the introduction of the key secondary legislation have slowed the implementation of the project. It
must be noted that the staff and other resources allocated by the Croatian Government to the tasks
in question have been less than sufficient, creating work overload for key staff involved in the
project. Several important TA activities ­ including review of feed-in tariffs, setting realistic RER
shares in Croatia's energy balance, streamlining of RE processing procedures to pre-feasibility
studies for biomass projects, support to project financing models ­ were delayed and eventually
canceled due to the limited capacity in the MoELE to provide the necessary input to and
clearance of ToRs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
HBOR was the key counterpart and implementing agency of the project. Its management
endorsed the creation of the PIU and made all the necessary efforts in good faith to assist the
implementation of the project. HBOR has closely and successfully cooperated with MoELE and
EPEEF in building the capacity within Croatia to develop and implement RE projects.

However, most of the activities were started much later than expected ­ leading to a "crunch" in
the final year of project implementation. Many of the TA contracts were rushed through during
the final eight-months period, which put immense pressure both on HBOR's PIU and the
recipients of the TA: MoELE, HROTE (the market operator), HEP TSO and HEP DSO (the
system operators), and HERA (the energy regulator). Similarly, under the CLF, very few loans
were signed until the final few months before the closing date. Then the number of loans
escalated precipitously and finally reached fifteen, which was the maximum allowed by the
budget.

Finally, the restructuring and extension request only materialized almost a year after a Joint
Portfolio Review had recommended that the project be restructured to revise the results
framework given the lower than anticipated project outcomes and to justify a possible extension.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
In light of the performance of MoELE and HBOR discussed above, the overall performance of
the Recipients was Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be learned from this project:

·   Creating an enabling regulatory framework for RE investments is challenging, complex, and
    time-consuming ­ even when the government is fully committed to the task. Support to RE
    development therefore needs to be sequenced carefully with well-defined milestones to be
    reached before moving into pre-investment and investment support stages;

·   An enabling regulatory framework with clear financial incentives such as the introduction of
    guaranteed preferential prices (feed-in-tariffs) for RE is a key prerequisite for creating
    investor interest in RE projects and without it other activities to stimulate an RE market will

                                                 14
    have limited impact. This means that a pipeline of projects will only be credible once such a
    framework is in place;

·   Once an enabling regulatory framework is in place, investors are prepared to borrow funds on
    a contingent loan basis for pre-investment activities such as feasibility studies (including site-
    specific resource assessments, environmental impact studies, due diligence and legal
    documentation) and a contingent loan (to be forgiven if project does not reach financial
    closure) can be a key risk mitigation device for small, local developers;

·   The difficulty in getting financial support for investments in RE will constrain many potential
    developers. Financing of RE projects is still a relatively novel idea for local banks ­ even in a
    middle-income country like Croatia. Securing financial support from commercial banks is
    challenging and project finance as opposed to balance sheet financing is little known. Even
    for a project supported by a full set of pre-investment documentation including a power
    purchase agreement a commercial bank will tend to give more weight to the strength of the
    borrower's balance sheet than to any of its project-specific revenue streams and will heavily
    rely on collateral (with required collateral value equal to ­ in the case of Croatia ­ as much as
    150% of the loan value) to control credit risk;

·   A centralized registry of potential renewable energy projects, such as the one built and
    maintained by MoELE, is a valuable tool in managing information useful to investors in a
    transparent way. It has created a large number of applications that form the basis for a solid
    pipeline of projects that can enable the country to reach its RE targets; and

·   The Bank's task teams need to give early attention to the need to restructure a project
    following the delay of effectiveness and/or achieving major milestones. Reducing targets that
    have become unattainable at an early stage will serve to keep the project from falling into
    problem status and will facilitate an extension if satisfactory progress toward the new targets
    can be demonstrated.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

Comments received from HBOR in response to a questionnaire developed for this ICR are
included in Annex 7. These comments also represent the view of MoELE. The Bank concurs with
the view and conclusions expressed.

(b) Cofinanciers and ther partners and stakeholders

Comments have been received from beneficiaries of the CLF through circulation of a
questionnaire and follow-up by telephone. The results are summarized in Annex 5. The Bank has
found this feed-back very valuable and it has inspired some of the lessons learned presented in
Section 6. It is in particular note-worthy that CLF beneficiaries would have preferred a solution
that also involved support to financing of investments e.g. in the form of guarantees.

Comments from EPEEF are included in Annex 8. The Bank concurs with the view and
conclusions expressed.



                                                 15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal             Actual/Latest
                                  Estimate (USD           Estimate (USD     Percentage of
         Components                  millions)               millions)       Appraisal

    Market Framework                                2               2.10          105%

    Project Preparation3                          6.5               4.88          75%


      Total Baseline Cost                         8.5               6.98          82%

    Physical Contingencies                          0                 0
    Price Contingencies                             0                 0

      Total Project Costs                         8.5               6.98          82%
    Project Development
    Facility (PDF)                               0.35               0.35          100%

    Front-end fee IBRD                              0                 0
        Total Financing
             Required                            8.85               7.33          83%
(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                   Estimate          Estimate    Percentage
                                Type of             (USD              (USD           of
     Source of Funds          Cofinancing          millions)         millions)   Appraisal
Govt. of
Croatia/EPEEF/Final
borrowers                                                   3.00           2.94         98%
Global Environment
Facility (GEF)                                              5.85           4.39         75%
     Total Financing
           Required                                         8.85           7.33




3
    This includes co-financing from project developers


                                                     16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Market Framework Component
                 Name of Study                       Contract amount (US$)
Review of the tariff system for RER and
Cogeneration                                               61,500.00
Support to Market Operator ­ Guarantees of
Origin system.                                            168,000.00
Support to MoELE - Legal support on
development of secondary and tertiary
legislation for RER                                        99,807.12
Support to development of policies and
measures for RER until 2020.                               60,270.00
Support to development of Streamlined
Procedures                                                194,094.84
Support to TSO ­ Integration of RER Part I                 98,460.81
Support to DSO ­ Support in defining of
technical conditions for RER grid connection              122,997.01
Support to TSO - Integration of RER Part II ­
Short term prediction of wind generation                  119,562.00
Support to MoELE ­ Authorization of
construction of RES, legal support Part I                  99,000.00
Support to MoELE ­ Authorization of
construction of RES, legal support Part II                123,590.88
Support to MoELE ­ Development of RER
Registry                                                  230,733.68
Support to MoELE ­ Registry Upgrade ­
heating and cooling projects                               73,492.50
Support to development of heating and cooling
regulation                                                133,762.50




                                                17
CLF Project Pipeline ­ Status at GEF project completion
                                                                                              CLF Loan        Contribution by
                Investor                          Project                    Status          amount (USD)     Investor (USD)
 1   BPEL d.o.o.                     Biogas - Pisarovina                   CLF signed            157,685.11         157,685.11
 2   OIE Semeljci d.o.o.             Biogas - Semeljci                     CLF signed            150,000.00         156,373.17
 3   Biointegra d.o.o.               Biogas - Slatina                      CLF signed            150,000.00         258,972.47
 4   EKO d.o.o.                      Wind - Kamensko                       CLF signed            127,267.40         185,810.41
 5   Kon ar OIE d.o.o.               Wind ­ Pometeno Brdo                  CLF signed            128,627.10         135,606.84
 6   Tudi Elektro Centar d.o.o.      Wind - Glun a                       Financial closure       150,000.00         316.547.00
 7   Farma Jozi                      Biogas ­ Slavonski Kobas              CLF signed            173,221.98         173,221.98
 8   RES energetski projekti         Biogas - Molve                        CLF signed            149,340.00         149,340.00
 9   Vjetroelektrana Bruvno d.o.o.   Wind - Bruvno                         CLF signed            150,000.00         277,619.54
                                     Biomass, cogeneration ­ Slavonski
10   Slavonija DI d.o.o.                                                   CLF signed            161,522.87         161,522.87
                                     Brod
11   SIZIM BIO-NERG d.o.o.           Biogas ­ Veliki Otok                  CLF signed             78,703.16          78,703.16
12   Depod projekti d.o.o.           Biomass, cogeneration - Brinje        CLF signed            105,908.09         431,273.15
13   Eko Energo Sistem d.o.o.        Biomass, cogeneration - Delnice       CLF signed            105,908.10         147,809.43
14   Lika Energo Eko d.o.o.          Biomass, cogeneration - Udbina        CLF signed            105,908.09         145,009.79
15   Parket 4 d.o.o.                 Biomass, cogeneration - Karlovac      CLF signed            105,908.10         107,100.20
                           TOTAL                                                               2,000,000.00       2,566,048.12




                                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic and financial analyses used in the appraisal of this project in 2005 consisted of: (a) a
cost-benefit analysis supporting the Government's decision about the appropriate share of
renewable energy in the overall energy balance of Croatia; (b) an incremental cost analysis to
satisfy the GEF requirements; and (c) a cash flow model for the contingent loan facility (CLF). It
was assumed that the amount of investment in renewable energy supported by CLF would reach
$120.9 million by the end of 2011.

During project implementation, the CLF-financed feasibility studies produced results that can be
compared with some of the appraisal estimates. For example, the amount of expected investment
in CLF-supported projects may potentially exceed $300 million, should all fifteen projects in the
table below find their financiers. However, the timetable for the financing and construction
phases of these projects is uncertain. Indeed, the assumption used at appraisal was that 54% of the
projects developed under CLF would fail to secure financing for the investment phase.

Many other assumptions of the analyses conducted at appraisal had to be reassessed ­ due to
various factors including the timetable slipping by about two years for the introduction of key
legislation, and thus the disbursements from CLF, which in turn caused delay in investments. For
example, the value of CLF loans placed was assumed to be $3.6 million including new loans
financed by repayments from the borrowers ­ the RE project developers. In reality, no
repayments became due by GEF project completion, so the value of loans placed remains at $2
million, the amount of the GEF grant allocated for the CLF component.

At completion of the GEF project, the CLF pipeline consists of 15 projects, including four wind
projects and eleven biomass projects. Relevant economic and financial information includes cost
estimates, net present value (NPV), and internal rate of return (IRR) calculations.

CLF Project Pipeline at GEF Project Completion
                                                                     Plant      Investment
       Investor          Project           NPV          IRR        capacity      mil. USD
                                          (USD*)        (%)         (MWe)
                      Biogas -
1   BPEL d.o.o.
                      Pisarovina
                                        2,159,709.42    14.08        1.0            5.2
    OIE Semeljci      Biogas -
2
    d.o.o.            Semeljci
                                        5,718,021.94    13.25        1.7           8.84
    Biointegra        Biogas -
3
    d.o.o.            Slatina
                                        2,914,487.71    12.89        1.0            5.2
                      Wind -
4   EKO d.o.o.
                      Kamensko
                                       11,836,760.76    10.14        20.0          36.3
                      Wind ­
    Kon ar OIE
5
    d.o.o.
                      Pometeno          2,035,458.08    6.82         16.0          27.2
                      Brdo
    Tudi Elektro      Wind -
6
    Centar d.o.o.     Glun a
                                        8,642,275.00    12.13        23.0          39.1
                      Biogas ­
7   Farma Jozi        Slavonski         4,259,799.97    20.21        1.0            5.2
                      Kobas
    RES energetski    Biogas       -
8
    projekti          Molve
                                        1,741,202.90    11.52        1.0            5.2
    Vjetroelektrana   Wind -
9
    Bruvno d.o.o.     Bruvno
                                       20,756,792.52    9.80         55.0          93.5


                                                   19
                                                                           Plant        Investment
        Investor          Project            NPV              IRR        capacity        mil. USD
                                            (USD*)            (%)         (MWe)
                       Biomass,
     Slavonija DI      cogeneration
10
     d.o.o.            ­ Slavonski
                                        11,985,203.52        10.35          4.0             20.8
                       Brod
     SIZIM BIO-        Biogas ­
11
     NERG d.o.o.       Veliki Otok
                                          4,430,717.16       15.24          1.0             5.2
                       Biomass,
     Depod projekti
12
     d.o.o.
                       cogeneration -     1,816,516.42       14.32          6.5             33.8
                       Brinje
                       Biomass,
     Eko Energo
13
     Sistem d.o.o.
                       cogeneration -     2,455,583.19       15.47          1.0             5.2
                       Delnice
                       Biomass,
     Lika Energo
14
     Eko d.o.o.
                       cogeneration -     9,145,863.81       17.81          1.0             5.2
                       Udbina
                       Biomass,
15   Parket 4 d.o.o.   cogeneration -     6,238,992.54       13.99          1.0             5.2
                       Karlovac

            TOTAL                                                                         301.14

*HRK/USD rate = 5.36

The calculation of NPV and IRR is based on financial cash flows only and does not include
economic benefits such as the value of fuel saved or environmental externalities. The cash flows
and resulting IRRs are calculated using a method resembling the well-established free cash flow
method taking the perspective of the project as a whole4. This is different from the perspective of
an equity investor, whose return is measured by the free cash flow to equity. In most cases, the
return to the equity investor will be higher due to the leveraging effect of debt. Thus, for example,
the IRR for the Bruvno Wind project (no. 9 in the table above) is 9.8% from the perspective of
the project as a whole, but it is 15.2% from the perspective of an investor whose equity would
cover about ¼ of the investment cost of the project. This assumes that the remaining ¾ of the cost
would be covered by a loan with a 12-year maturity and 6% interest rate.

As shown by the NPVs the table, all fifteen projects are expected to be profitable, although the
presented NPVs may be overstated as the discount rates used in the calculation were relatively
low (between 4% and 7.5% for different projects). This is a reflection of the low weighted
average cost of capital (WACC) used in the calculations by the PIU at HBOR. Local inflation
was not included in the cash flow projections, so the IRRs essentially reflect returns in real terms.

In all fifteen projects, the key assumption leading to profitability is the ability of the project to
obtain the feed-in tariffs included in the Croatian legislation. Without these tariffs, the projects
would either be unprofitable or have to seek highly subsidized financing for their capital costs.



4
  The PIU at HBOR used a proprietary model to calculate the cash flows. The cash flows derived by the
model may slightly overstate the cash flows relative to the well established methods such as the free cash
flow to the firm/project.


                                                     20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Rashid Benmessaoud                 Senior Energy Specialist    SACPK         TTL
Frederick Renner                          Consultant             -         RER Expert
Supervision/ICR
Peter Johansen                    Senior Energy Specialist     ECSS2           TTL
Angelica A. Fernandes                    Consultant            ECSC2       Procurement
Stjepan Gabric                    Senior Operations Officer    ECSS6
Hana Huzjak                          Operations Analyst        ECSS6
Lamija Marijanovic            Financial Management Specialis   ECSC3     Financ. Manag.
Mirela Mart                              Consultant            ECSPS     Financ. Manag.
Natasa Vetma                         Operations Officer        ECSS3     Env. Safeguards
Iwona Warzecha                Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSC3     Financ. Manag.

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                     53.62
  FY02                                                                     59.00
  FY03                                                                     23.46
  FY04                                                                     24.46
  FY05                                                                     49.82
  FY06                                                                     61.94

                          Total:                                          272.30
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                     50.77
  FY08                                                                     58.83
  FY09                                                                     50.81
  FY10                                                                     44.66
  FY11                                                                     22.45

                          Total:                                          227.52




                                             21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Feedback was requested from the RE project developers who have received financing from the
CLF. To facilitate their feedback, a brief survey was developed and translated into Croatian. Six
project developers (out of 15) completed their surveys by mid-November 2010. The survey
included a request to rank the usefulness of the CLF in meeting their project development needs
on a scale from 1 to 5. The respondents were mostly positive and gave the CLF high marks. Two
respondents however were quite critical of the CLF, and one of them gave it a rating of 1 (the
lowest possible).

  The survey included the following questions:
     (1) Has the CLF helped you reach your project development needs?
     (2) What is the proposed installed MW capacity of your project?
     (3) What is the proposed RE technology (e.g., wind, biomass, small hydro, etc.)?
     (4) What stage of development was your project able to complete with CLF support? (pre-
         feasibility study, feasibility study, project design, pre-construction licenses, construction
         license, power purchase agreement);
     (5) What sources of funding were used to develop the project documents? (CLF loan, project
         developer's own funds/equity, etc.)
     (6) Is your project likely to reach financial closure for the investment phase




The positive comments focused on the need fulfilled by the facility for providing access to
affordable financing at the critical initial stage of project development. To the important sixth
question whether financial closure based on the documents developed with CLF support was
likely, more respondents answered "yes" than otherwise.

Nevertheless, the major common point of concern raised in the verbal sections of the survey was
the lack of certainty with respect to ever achieving financial closure for the investment phase.
What was perceived as a lack of commitment from HBOR to extend loans to their projects was
mentioned as a major factor contributing to this uncertainty. The respondent that gave the lowest
usefulness rating to CLF believed that the concept of leaving it for the free market to come up
with the investment phase financing was out of touch with reality.

The other common complaint was that the conditions attached to the loans were too hard to meet.
In particular, the developers (especially those of very small project size) expressed frustration
with the extremely burdensome collateral conditions required by both HBOR and the commercial
banks. One respondent expressly made the point that the high collateral requirements were
unreasonable as he saw his project as having very low default risk due to availability of a 12-year
power purchase agreement with the market operator and a significant if not major (10%)
investment already made by his company on an equity basis.




                                                22
A view was also expressed that project developers should not be required to start repaying loans
to CLF unless and until financial closure is achieved for the investment phase of the project.5

Some respondents stated that matching the project development expenses on a 50%:50% basis
was difficult to meet and slowed down the project cycle. Some argued for 100% of these
expenses to be financed by the CLF loan.

One respondent pointed to the need to make it clearer to potential borrowers that CLF loans are
available for a broader spectrum of pre-investment expenditures, including the development of
design documentation for grid connections for RE, associated transformer substations, etc.




5
 It must be noted that this view is entirely consistent with the intent of the GEF expressed in the Project
Document of 2005. However, the position of HBOR on this issue was obviously different, and the project
developers had to accept it when entering into a loan agreement with HBOR.


                                                     23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N.a.




                                   24
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A questionnaire was developed to assist the Recipient of the GEF grant in providing inputs to the
ICR and discussed with the two main counterparts: HBOR and MoELE. In particular, HBOR and
MoELE were requested to supply the information on the transition arrangements, focusing on
making sure that the projects developed under the CLF reach financial closure. The completed
questionnaire was received in late October 2010.

Introduction to the Questionnaire for the Preparation of the GEF Grant Recipient's ICR

1.       Evaluation of Project Objectives

The objective of the Croatia Renewable Energy Resources Project, defined in the GEF
Project Document (May 2005), includes two parts. The first part is the global environmental
objective: to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a continuous basis by overcoming
barriers to implementation of renewable energy (RE). Performance indicators for the global
objective included: (a) Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions at the national and project levels;
and (b) Increased share of "new" RE resources in national energy supply. The second part of the
project's objective was to help develop an economically and environmentally sustainable market
for renewable energy resources in Croatia. Development of this market would support Croatia in
its EU accession efforts. The performance indicators for the second part included: (a) Introduction
of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RE power and heat production (including
tariff design, sub-laws on grid code, licensing and permitting procedures, and training of
stakeholders); and (b) Total number of RE projects reaching financial closure as a result of the
Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) including the capacity installed (MW) and amount of electricity
and heat generated (MWh).6

In addition, the project would help make Croatia's economy less reliant on imported electricity
and fossil fuels, reduce overall emissions, lead to a higher degree of local employment
(equipment manufacturing), and create an attractive climate for private investment in RE.

The Questionnaire and Answers by HBOR

     ·   Do you think that the objectives of the project adequately reflected the Recipient's needs
         when the project became effective?

Yes. At that time development of an economically and environmentally sustainable market for
renewable energy resources and reduction of the GHG emissions were certainly adequate
objectives. These objectives are relatively broadly defined, so there is no doubt about adequacy.

     ·   Do you think that the World Bank and the Recipient had the same understanding of the
         objectives of the project?


6
  The project in principle deals with both the production of electricity and heat from RE resources.
However, most of the emphasis is on electricity production (from wind farms and biomass fired
cogeneration plants).




                                                25
Yes. However, some objectives/indicators were not clearly defined.

     ·   Do you think that the project design (its components and relative size of components,
         their interaction) was consistent with the stated objectives?

Yes. It can be concluded that the project design both in organizational and technical sense was
adequate and sustainable. In the part of technical assistance (TA) for the development of RER
market, there was enough flexibility for creating particular tasks for consultants, which were
adequate for the further development of RER system.

But, because of the complexity of the system (several administrative bodies/authorities involved
in the procedure), perhaps, in a formal sense, representatives of the concerned parties should be
more tied to project (not only through the Working Group). This can be done through the
organization of the Project. For example, all concerned parties to be introduced as co-
beneficiaries, or some other way to involve them more formally in the Project. Maybe it could be
more prudent with aim to faster achieve the objectives.

     ·   To what extent did key project participants (ministries and agencies, utility operators,
         representatives of municipalities, potential investors, energy consumers, etc.) participate
         in setting objectives/tasks of the project and in its preparation?

Everyone has contributed, either directly or indirectly. However, the largest contribution came
from the Ministry of Economy (MoELE) which, as a result of intensive communication with all
relevant institutions, had a clear basis in setting objectives / tasks of the project. The Ministry
organized 2 workshops with key project participants and used discussion conclusions for further
preparing of the project.

2.       Achievement of Objectives and Tasks

     ·   How would you describe the most significant economic, financial, social, institutional,
         and environmental conditions in which the project was implemented?

All those conditions, in the part related with the RES, were relatively underdeveloped. Maybe,
only economic (EPEEF, FIT) and environmental (GHG "sector") conditions were relatively well
developed and a clear understanding existed about the role of RES. Investment in RER projects
were practically non-existent and there was no useful experience.

Also, the institutional situation in Croatia (like in other transition countries) was to some extent
burdened by problems such as: communication problems, overlap of responsibilities,
misunderstanding of responsibilities, slow development, etc.

     ·   To what extent were the objectives of the project achieved (as much as possible, please
         provide factual data supporting your point of view)?

Despite implementation dynamic obstacles (see next question) the CRO RER Project achieved its
purpose and objectives. The Market Framework Support component of the Project was very
successful in terms of giving support to Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship and
other institutions in a RER market development. By implemented activities of technical and legal
assistance, very valuable support was given to MoELE in enabling an operating RER licensing
process. Very important was technical and legal support in resolving backlog cases related to the


                                                26
occupation of sites in the wind sector during creating of RER projects Registry and obtaining the
Preliminary Energy Approval as a first step in a licensing process. As a result we have a large
number of RER and cogeneration projects in pipeline, with obtained Preliminary Energy
Approval (at this moment more than 300 different projects). Also, the further development of
RER projects and market system are supported through the implementation of services such as:
- Development of streamlined procedures for RER projects permitting;
- Additional development of RER Registry (improved functionalities);
- Additional legal support (basis for upgrade of secondary legislation);
- Review of the tariff system;
- Development of policies and measures for RER until 2020;
- Registry upgrade for heating and cooling projects;
- Development of heating and cooling regulation;

Also, technical assistance support to other market institutions is given such as:
- support to Transmission System Operator (HEP TSO) ­ short term prediction of wind
   capacity;
- Distribution System Operator (HEP DSO) ­ supporting in defining of technical conditions for
   grid connection;
- Market Operator (HROTE) ­ Guarantees of Origin system.

Support to grid operators is very valuable, because grid issues are one of the main constrains in
development of RER sector. Support to market development was concluded with services that
will directly support further improvement of the RER market system through an upcoming review
of tariff system and secondary legislation in general. This review will address the most important
obstacles in the implementation of the RER system, which are now well identified.

Similarly, despite the market development delay, the Project Preparation Component of the CRO
RER Project fully and successfully performed its role in supporting of potential RER projects in
an early stage of development, supporting them in achieving financial closure. Through the
Contingent Loan Facility lending was contracted for preparation of 15 RER projects. There is an
increased demand for such support, and HBOR is considering the possibility of continuing this
facility after the closing of CRO RER Project.

Project Investment Support (PIS) part of the Project Preparation Component was not so
successful. One could say that the problems and barriers were just encountered, but there was no
time for substantial development support. These issues were somehow at the end of the chain, but
of course no less important.

If we consider the achievement of the envisaged objectives through the performance indicators
set at appraisal, there is no doubt that the Project has not been able to meet the targets within the
original timeframe. Specifically, the originally set performance indicators were based on the
assumption that technical assistance should be completed and approved in second (year 2) of the
Project. The target for the CLF component was that five CLF supported RER projects should
reach financial closure by the closing date (which means in the year 4 of the Project), and four
more in the following year 5 and year 6. Also, increased share of the "new" RER in national
electricity consumption was originally predicted to reach 3.5% in year 4 of the Project and 4.5%
and 5.0% in the following year 5 and year 6. According to this increased share of the "new" RE a
CO2 emission reduction was estimated at 87,000 tCO2eq in year 6 of the Project.



                                                 27
Generally, according to realistic projections Croatia will reach minimum target RER share of
5.8% of the "new" RER in national electricity consumption with two years delay, or by the end of
2012. This dynamic will bring RER share of 3.0-5.0% in year 6 (2011) of the CRO RER Project.
This is almost in line with originally predicted Project dynamics but with intensive development
in years 2010 and 2011. On the other hand only one or two CLF supported RER projects will
reach financial closure by the closing date (which means in year 4 of the Project), and eleven
more in the following year 5 and year 6. For year 4 of the Project this is not in line with the
originally set performance indicator. But, if the timetable for the target were extended by only
one year, this performance indicator could have been met and possibly over fulfilled (13 vs. 9
projects in all six observed years).

Concerning technical assistance, originally set performance indicator (completion and approval in
year 2) has not been fully reached at the time but generally performance of technical assistance
was successfully reached by the end of the Project.

    ·   What were the main reasons for the success (or failure) in achieving the objective (and
        sub-objectives) of the project?

One of the basic preconditions for development of RER market in Croatia and successful
implementation of the RER Project was the issuance of the renewable electricity and
cogeneration secondary legislation package regulating permitting procedure for RER projects,
"feed in" tariff system and minimum share of electricity produced from RER and cogeneration
plants whose production is incentivized. Due to reasons that were not in the domain of the RER
Project, the issuance of RER secondary legislation package was delayed by 2 years and finally it
went into effect on July 1, 2007, i.e. more than two years after Board approval.

The consequence is that the overall development of the RER market in Croatia was delayed by
about two years and, at the present moment, the RER market is intensively developing, but is still
far from being mature. The delay also had a significant influence on the development of the CRO
RER Project regarding both components of the Project. Technical assistance for market
framework development could have been effectively defined only when problems and barriers
became more visible through the implementation of the system of measures to support RER. The
Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) supported RER projects were initiated only when the project
development procedures and the feed in tariff system were defined. The result of this was that the
majority of the Project activities picked up speed only in the last two years of project
implementation.

    ·   Which achievements of the project do you consider the most significant?

Most significant is support to MoELE and Developers:
- Development of authorization process and OIE Registry;
- Legal support;
- Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF),
- CLF.

To briefly summarize, the project provided certain development and the basics for further
development of RER market system. These basics are not theoretical but based on the real
experience of the current system development, wherein the obstacles and barriers were identified
and documented to be significantly avoided in the next step. This will make the system of
supports to RER more efficient than that anticipated at the beginning.

                                               28
     ·   To what extent has it become possible to commission and start operating the facilities
         built or rehabilitated under the project?

Not really applicable to the RER project, but some of the CLF projects are brought to the level of
financial closure for construction, with the start of implementation/construction expected shortly.

     ·   To what extent did the timeframe for commissioning the facilities correspond to the
         timeline set out in the legal documents (the grant agreement)?

There was a delay in the Project implementation. See explanation above.

3.       Evaluation of Recipient's Performance

Project Preparation

     ·   How would you evaluate the degree of the project support by the Government of Croatia
         at the project preparation stage?

The project support (in framework of policy) by the Government at the preparation stage has been
highly satisfactory. In a situation when the RER practically did not exist, MoELE launched a
specific activity and, in cooperation with the IBRD, launched a project of great value for the
country.

     ·   Did the ministries in charge and other concerned agencies of the Government do
         everything needed for successful launch of the project (staffing, policy, technical aspects
         and resources)?

Yes, within the possibilities. Operationally, the biggest share of the burden was absorbed by the
MoELE, where the Directorate for Energy and the Department of RER had been only recently
created. A lot of things were done with extraordinary, passionate, and special activity of the RER
Department Manager. Not all stakeholders were equally engaged. An important contribution was
given by the EPEEF in setting up the project.

     ·   If a similar project happens in the future, what aspects of the role implemented by the
         Government during project preparation should be in greater focus to properly build on
         the experience and lessons of this project?

The experience is good. The project was, at the time, well prepared. Taking into account today's
experience, perhaps less dynamic development of the system should have been expected, and
slightly less ambitious goals should have been set. This is especially true if we consider that the
system was designed as an authorization of projects (rather than government concessions), and
the developers took some time to master the system.

Also, because of the complexity of the system (several administrative bodies/authorities involved
in the procedure), perhaps, in a formal sense, representatives of the concerned parties should be
more tied to project (not only through the working group). This can be done through the
organization of the Project. For example, all concerned parties to be introduced as co-
beneficiaries, or some other way to involve them more formally in the Project. On the other hand,



                                                29
the participation of multiple stakeholders could complicate communication and coordination
within the Project. It is necessary to find the right balance.

Project Implementation

    ·   How would you answer the three previous questions regarding the project
        implementation stage?

1) Degree of the project support by the Government;

Support has been very satisfactory as well as determination for development of the market.
However, in the area of market development, there was a delay in issuing the first version of the
RER secondary legislation. This has slowed the development of RER markets and in some way
affected the implementation of the RER project.

2) Did the ministries in charge and other concerned agencies of the Government do everything
needed for successful implementation of the project (staffing, policy, technical aspects and
resources)?

RER department in MoELE was fully committed, and over time increased its capacity. However,
in one respect, which is of great importance for the development of the system, MoELE's
capacity is limited. Specifically, the Energy Department does not have its own lawyers. In this
sense, support of the RER Project is more than valuable.

Communication between the concerned parties/agencies increased as well. Agencies were
intensively working on renewable energy issues (Market Operator, Energy Regulatory Agency).
However, the system is not easy to establish, and the RER Project by itself was not sufficient for
overall development of the system. Development depends on dedication of individual agencies.
The requirements for the development of the grid operator (TSO, DSO) are particularly
demanding. Further efforts are needed to ensure a greater capacity of connection to the network.

HBOR very well fit into the project implementation, particularly in the segment of CLF.
Communication and experience with the developers have brought a very strong awareness of
problems and barriers in the financing sector.

EPEEF has also contributed very much to the implementation of CLF. Their responsibility was
for the technical due diligence for the CLF sub-projects. EPEEF has been active in conducting the
analysis, but sometimes, probably because the EPEEF staff were busy with their own      tasks,
the activities took longer than expected.

3) What aspects should be in greater focus?

During the implementation, for this kind of project, aspect of co-ordination of various institutions
is very important. The agencies should give emphasis to it, regarding project preparation as much
as project implementation.

Also, greater focus should be placed in the field response from the Developers, and, based on
that, to management of any potential changes in the project.




                                                30
4.       Evaluation of World Bank Performance

Project Preparation Stage

     ·   How would you evaluate the performance of the World Bank as the implementing agency
         of this GEF grant during project preparation?

The Bank established good relations, collaborating closely with all government counterparts and
supported the framework for preparation of the project.

     ·   To what extent, in your view, did the World Bank succeed in understanding the objectives
         of the project and reaching consensus with the Government?

The Bank understood it in full extent. The understanding was highly relevant regarding to
Government's long term strategy of development of RER sector.

     ·   Did the World Bank team have sufficient experience and knowledge for successful
         preparation of the project?

Yes. In many ways, the Bank specifically directed the project preparation.

     ·   How successfully did the World Bank interact with the Government and/or other
         counterparts during mobilization of resources for cofinancing of the project?

Successfully. The result is that some institutions contributed to the project (MoELE - 25% for the
domestic consultants, EPEEF ­ guarantees for the CLF, as well as "in kind" contribution of
technical expertise)

     ·   If a similar project is implemented in the future, what aspects of the role taken by the
         World Bank during project preparation should be in greater focus to properly build on
         the experience and lessons of this project?

The Bank should, bearing in mind the institutional situation in transition countries like Croatia
(communication problems, overlap of responsibilities, misunderstanding of responsibilities, slow
development, etc.), insist on more formal involvement of stakeholders in the project.


Project Implementation Stage

     ·   How would you evaluate the World Bank performance during project implementation?

Very good. The Bank was all the time "in" the project.

     ·   Did the World Bank, in your view, respond adequately and timely to changes that took
         place in the country and could affect the outcome of the project?

From today's point of view, the project had relatively ambitious objectives. Maybe a possible
dynamics of market development was relatively overrated. Perhaps the Bank, recognizing this,
should have insisted on an earlier restructuring of the project.



                                               31
     ·   Did the World Bank team have sufficient experience and knowledge for successful
         supervision of project implementation?

Yes. The Bank team was very experienced, very cooperative and very often available in Croatia
through the missions. Communication and support were excellent.

     ·   How successfully did the World Bank interact with the Government and/or other
         counterparts during mobilization of resources for cofinancing of the project?

Successfully. The result is that some institutions contributed to the project (MoELE - 25% for the
domestic consultants, EPEEF ­ guarantees for the CLF, "in kind" contribution)

     ·   If a similar project happens in the future, what aspects of the role taken by the World
         Bank during project implementation should be in greater focus to properly build on the
         experience and lessons of this project?

From today's point of view, a greater focus should be on the realized dynamics of market
development, which has an impact on the achievement of project objectives.

5.       Contribution of the Project to Institutional Strengthening

     ·   Did the project, in your opinion, contribute to institutional strengthening: for example,
         did the project help improve the regulatory framework for RE or enhance the capacity of
         local businesses to carry out RE project development, financing, and implementation?

Yes definitely. It has been a very essential part of the Project's intent and content.

     ·   Can you provide specific examples of where, in your view, such contribution of the
         project was the most significant?

MoELE:
- Development of authorization process and OIE Registry;
- Legal support;
- Basics for further development of market system and legislation;
- Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF).
HBOR:
- CLF - enhance the capacity to carry out assessment and RE project financing.

     ·   How good are the chances that these results will have a lasting impact?

In most of the cases there are good chances. The resulting market system and legislation will last
for a next period of significant development of the sector.. This is a very important result. The
knowledge accumulated within the institutions will last. Improved communication and
relationships between institutions will last. In HBOR, knowledge about the RER sector will not
only last but grow.




                                                  32
6.       Transition Arrangements

     ·   Do you anticipate any difficulties in regular operations of any project participants
         (ministries and agencies, municipalities, RE project developers, etc.) after termination of
         financing from the GEF grant?

Not in the short term. Concerning MoELE, all achieved results of the GEF support will be
promptly used for formalization of the system through procedures and new set (update) of the
legislation. Of course, it would help if the requested extension of the project did not fail. In that
case, the transition would be made more efficiently.

On the other hand, after termination of financing from the GEF grant, MoELE will feel a great
lack of legal assistance and lack of support by renewably energy advisory facility (REAF). The
opportunity to strengthen their own capacity in these areas has unfortunately been missed by
MoELE, and the only solution will be continued use of external services.

Concerning other institutions influence of the project was not so significant to make difficulties in
regular operations.

     ·   If you do, what has been done or what has been planned to do to have transition to
         regular operations and to retain advantages gained during the project (including
         provision of resources for keeping the maintenance of the facilities
         created/built/rehabilitated during the project at the adequate level)?

HBOR ­ Project Manager of PIU is kept in the HBOR and contributes to the development of the
financing of the RER sector. Based on the experience of the GEF project, HBOR is considering
introduction of a similar loan program such as CLF, but from its own funds.

Also, MoELE has kept the consultant (Mr. Marijan Hohnjec) from REAF for a scope of activities
that will remain largely the same, for a certain period under a contract paid by UNDP.

     ·   Has the need in a potential follow-up project been assessed?

Not under the RER Project. However, it might be good under similar future projects to include
plans for seeking resources and develop plans for follow-up activities.

At this moment, it would be good for Croatia to pursue such projects because an Action Plan for
the development of the economy has just been launched where RER sector plays a significant
role.


7.       Key Lessons

     ·   What are the most important lessons of this project as a whole, including both lessons for
         future investment projects and broader lessons ­ for example, ideas for development of a
         more successful policy for supporting RE, more financing opportunities for RE, etc.?

An important lesson is that, because of the complexity of the RER market system (several
administrative bodies/authorities involved in the procedure), perhaps, in a formal sense,
representatives of the concerned parties should be more tied to project (not only through the


                                                 33
working group). For example, all concerned parties to be introduced as co-beneficiaries. Other
words, to insist on more formal involvement of stakeholders in the project, bearing in mind the
institutional situation in transition countries like Croatia (communication problems, overlap of
responsibilities, misunderstanding of responsibilities, slow development, etc.). On the other hand,
On the other hand, the participation of multiple stakeholders could complicate communication
and coordination within the Project. It is necessary to find the right balance.

Also, one of the lessons is that we should pay attention to determining how much attention will be
paid to different parts of the RER system ­ development of legislation and perrmiting procedures,
grid connection and financing. In the end, each of these areas should command equal attention.
Maybe, an idea is to have three diferent commponents within one project.

The legislative and regulatory actions supported by TA under the Project are summarized in the
table below.




                                                34
                  Legislative/Regulatory Actions Supported by TA under the Project (Including the PDF-B phase)

Legislative/Regulatory/          Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change               TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change              record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                  that contributed to
                                  reference                                                                               action/change
Ordinance on the Use of          01.07.2007.   This Ordinance specifies the renewable energy sources and             PDF-B:
Renewable Energy Sources           Official    cogeneration plants used for energy production, prescribes the
and Cogeneration                   Gazette     conditions and possibilities for the use of renewable energy          1. Public Land Use
                                  67/2007      sources and cogeneration plants and regulates other issues of         Regulation for Wind Energy
                                               importance for the use of renewable energy sources and                Development in Croatia -
                                               cogeneration.                                                         administrative and proprietary
                                                                                                                     rights barriers regarding wind
                                               This Ordinance lays down the form, contents and manner of             power potential exploring and
                                               keeping the Registry of projects and plants for the use of            wind farm construction
                                               renewable energy sources and cogeneration and of eligible
                                               producers.                                                            2. Public Land Use
Ordinance on Acquiring the       01.07.2007.   This Ordinance establishes the conditions for acquiring the status    Regulation for Wind Energy
Status of Eligible Electricity     Official    of eligible electricity producer which may be acquired by a project   Development in Croatia"
Producer                           Gazette     holder or producer who in a single generation plant simultaneously
                                  67/2007      produces electricity and heat, uses waste or renewable energy         3. Cost-Benefit Analysis for
                                               sources for electricity production in an economically viable          Renewable Energy in Croatia
                                               manner in compliance with environmental protection




                                                                       35
Legislative/Regulatory/     Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change                  TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change         record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                     that contributed to
                             reference                                                                                  action/change
Tariff System for the       01.07.2007.   This Tariff System for the production of electricity from                4. Development of renewable
Production of Electricity     Official    renewable energy sources and cogeneration regulates the right of         energy policy / regulatory
from Renewable Energy         Gazette     eligible producers of electricity to an incentive price of electricity   framework
Sources and Cogeneration     33/2007      paid by the market operator for the delivered electricity produced
                                          in plants using renewable energy sources and cogeneration plants
                                          pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 5 of the Energy Act.                   5. Local Development
                                          This Tariff System defines the tariff items and the amounts of           Planning
                                          tariff items for electricity produced in plants using renewable
                                          energy sources and cogeneration plants, depending on the type of
                                          source, power and other elements of delivered energy, as well as
                                          the manner and conditions of application of those elements.

                                          This Tariff System is based on justified costs of operation,
                                          construction, replacement, reconstruction and maintenance of
                                          plants using renewable energy sources and cogeneration plants and
                                          on a reasonable return on investment funds.




                                                                    36
Legislative/Regulatory/       Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change               TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change           record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                  that contributed to
                               reference                                                                               action/change
Regulation on the             01.07.2007.   This Regulation stipulates the minimum share of electricity
Minimum Share of                Official    produced from plants using renewable sources of energy and
Electricity Produced from       Gazette     cogeneration plants whose production is incentivized and lays
Renewable Energy Sources       33/2007      down the objectives of the Republic of Croatia as regards the
and Cogeneration whose                      production of electricity from plants using renewable sources of
Production is Incentivized                  energy and from cogeneration plants.

                                            The objective referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be
                                            expressed as the minimum share of electricity produced from
                                            plants using renewable sources of energy and from cogeneration
                                            plants in the total electricity consumption whose production is
                                            incentivized in the manner and under the conditions laid down in
                                            special regulations.

                                            This Regulation does not apply to electricity generated from hydro
                                            power plants with installed power exceeding 10 MW or to
                                            electricity generated from cogeneration plants falling in the
                                            category of public heating plants which produce electric and
                                            thermal energy for sale and not for their own purposes.
Regulation on Incentive       01.07.2007.   This Regulation lays down the manner of disposing of, the
Fees for Promoting              Official    amount, calculation, collection, distribution and payment of
Electricity Production from     Gazette     incentive fees for promoting electricity production from plants
Renewable Energy Sources       33/2007      using renewable energy sources and from cogeneration plants
and Cogeneration                            (hereinafter: incentive fee), in accordance with strategic interests
                                            of the Republic of Croatia which pertain to the share of renewable
                                            sources of energy and cogeneration in total electricity
                                            consumption, taking into account the circumstances on the energy
                                            market of the Republic of Croatia and production costs of
                                            electricity from plants using renewable energy sources and from
                                            cogeneration plants.



                                                                     37
Legislative/Regulatory/     Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change                TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change         record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                   that contributed to
                             reference                                                                                action/change

Update / Revision of:                                                                                            RER Project:
                            Expected in   Energy Act regulates measures to ensure a secure and reliable
1. Energy Act               year 2011.    energy supply, efficient power generation and its use; enforcement     A1-2: Support to the Croatian
                                          of acts that will stipulate and on the basis of which the energy       Energy Market Operator:
                                          policy and energy strategy will be designed; it also regulates         - Implementation of the
                                          carrying out of energy activities based on market principles or        System of Guarantees of
                                          pursuant to public service obligation, and other key issues relevant   Origin in Croatia, with
                                          for the energy sector.                                                 necessary legislative
                                                                                                                 adaptation on current support
                                          This Act regulates the performance of the following activities of      system.
2. Electricity Market Act   Expected in   the energy sector: generation of electricity, transmission of
                            year 2011.    electricity, distribution of electricity, supply of electricity and    A1-3.1: Support to MoELE -
                                          organization of the electricity market.                                Legal Support:
                                                                                                                 - Revision of secondary
                                                                                                                 renewable energy legislation
                                                                                                                 and drafting a basic concept
                                                                                                                 of the new legislation
                                                                                                                 RER Project:
Issuance of new Act:
                            Expected in   This Act will integrate existing and planned legislation concerning    A1-2: Support to the Croatian
1. Renewable Energy Act     year 2011.    the authorization, certification and licensing procedures that are     Energy Market Operator:
                                          applied to plants for the production of electricity, heating or        - Implementation of the
                                          cooling from renewable energy sources, and to the process of           System of Guarantees of
                                          transformation of biomass into biofuels or other energy products.      Origin in Croatia, with
                                                                                                                 necessary legislative
                                                                                                                 adaptation on current support
                                                                                                                 system.

                                                                                                                 A1-3.1: Support to MoELE -


                                                                    38
Legislative/Regulatory/      Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change           TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change          record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment              that contributed to
                              reference                                                                           action/change
                                                                                                             Legal Support:
                                                                                                             - Revision of secondary
                                                                                                             renewable energy legislation
                                                                                                             and drafting a basic concept
                                                                                                             of the new legislation

                                                                                                             A1-6: Support to MoELE -
                                                                                                             Support to development of
                                                                                                             streamlined procedures of
                                                                                                             renewable energy resources
                                                                                                             (RER) projects:
                                                                                                             - Review and evaluation of
                                                                                                             the renewable project
                                                                                                             development procedures -
                                                                                                             identify and evaluate all
                                                                                                             possible barriers and
                                                                                                             problems in performing the
                                                                                                             RER licensing procedures.

                                                                                                             A1-5: Support to MoELE -
                                                                                                             Development of policies and
                                                                                                             measures for increasing the
                                                                                                             RER share and achieving
                                                                                                             long-term mandatory targets
Update / Revision of RER                                                                                     RER Project:
secondary legislation:
                                           Update / Revision of RER secondary legislation is intended to     A1-1: Support to the MoELE
1. Ordinance on the Use of   Expected in   harmonize the development dynamics of the RER sector, both        ­ RER tariff system revision
Renewable Energy Sources     year 2011.    through the tariff system and through the process of investment
and Cogeneration                           authorization.                                                    A1-3.1: Support to MoELE -
                                                                                                             Legal Support:


                                                                   39
Legislative/Regulatory/       Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change                    TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change           record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                       that contributed to
                               reference                                                                                    action/change
                                                                                                                       Legal Support:
2. Ordinance on Acquiring                   Croatian feed-in tariffs system is the main driver of the market           - Revision of secondary
the Status of Eligible                      support to producers through the transfer of funds per kWh                 renewable energy legislation
Electricity Producer                        generated. The tariff is generally set by the Government at the rate       and drafting a basic concept
                                            above the market rate to help overcome the cost disadvantages of           of the new legislation
3. Tariff System for the                    renewable energy and cogeneration. However, only those
Production of Electricity                   technologies that benefit from the feed-in tariff earn sufficient          A1-6: Support to MoELE -
from Renewable Energy                       profits to be implemented. For this reason, the Government of              Support to development of
Sources and Cogeneration                    Croatia intends to introduce feed-in tariffs for much finer market         streamlined procedures of
                                            structure compared to current market composition that would                renewable energy resources
4. Regulation on the                        overcome disadvantaged position of some of the technologies with           (RER) projects:
Minimum Share of                            potential for large penetration, e.g., small PV up to 30 kW. After         - Review and evaluation of
Electricity Produced from                   three years of practicing the existing system, Ministry of                 the renewable project
Renewable Energy Sources                    Economy, Labour and                                                        development procedures -
and Cogeneration whose                      Entrepreneurship (MoELE) decided to review some aspects of                 identify and evaluate all
Production is Incentivized                  existing support system:                                                   possible barriers and
                                            · implement new segmentation of the RES and cogeneration                   problems in performing the
5. Regulation on Incentive                  market that would take into account technology development and             RER licensing procedures.
Fees for Promoting                          recent trends;
Electricity Production from                 · review feed-in tariffs for existing and calculate tariffs for a broad    A1-8.2: Support to MoELE
Renewable Energy Sources                    range of new RES and cogeneration market segments.                         Authorization for the
and Cogeneration                                                                                                       construction RERCP and
                                            Also, the administrative authorization process of RE sources and           RERCPPP Registry ­ Legal
                                            cogeneration (RESC) projects construction and operation will be            Support
                                            revised. Revision will simplify authorization and thus shorten the
                                            procedure conducted by the bodies responsible under the energy             A1-5: Support to MoELE -
                                            regulation. Also, it will correlate the activities of relevant bodies in   Development of policies and
                                            order to strengthen the purpose of the approvals or licenses, and to       measures for increasing the
                                            oblige them to appropriate collaboration in different process              RER share and achieving
                                            stages.                                                                    long-term mandatory targets



                                                                      40
Legislative/Regulatory/      Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change               TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change          record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                  that contributed to
                              reference                                                                               action/change
Issuance of new secondary                  The Republic of Croatia, as well as other EU Member States, will      RER Project:
legislation regarding                      have to significantly increase the share of renewable energy
renewable heating and                      sources (RES) in total final energy consumption in order to reduce    A1-9: Support to MoELE ­
cooling energy:              Expected in   carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. Pursuant to        Support to Development of
                             year 2011.    the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the aim is to         Renewable Heating and
1. Ordinance on obtaining                  source 20.02% of the country's total energy production from the       Cooling Regulation
the status of eligible                     RES (including electricity, heating and cooling energy, and
producers of renewable                     transport). The said percentage has been defined pursuant to the
heating and cooling energy                 Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the
                                           Council of 23 April 2009 on the Promotion of the Use of Energy
2. Regulation on the                       from Renewable Sources, and Amending and Subsequently
supported share of heating                 Repealing the Directive 2001/77/EC and 2003/30/EC.
and cooling energy
produced from renewable                    The current share of total energy production from renewables in
energy sources                             the Republic of Croatia is 12.58%, and it must be increased by
                                           additional 7.42%, which is a very ambitious target considering the
3. Regulation on sources                   set deadline (2020). Global experiences as to heating (cooling)
and amounts of financial                   energy production show that heating energy consumption
support for eligible                       represents a very large percentage of total energy consumption,
producers of renewable                     about 50-60%. This is a large amount of energy, and it is therefore
heating and cooling energy                 opportune to produce a part thereof using renewables so as to
                                           increase the share of the RES in total energy production. In this
                                           manner, relatively small changes to the structure of heating energy
                                           production would result in maximum effects as regards the
                                           increase of the renewables share in the total amount of energy
                                           produced, which would then result in a very significant reduction
                                           of carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions (under the Kyoto
                                           Protocol, Croatia should reduce its GHG emissions by 5% in
                                           relation to the base year, 1990).




                                                                    41
Legislative/Regulatory/      Date/public    Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change                TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change          record       for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                   that contributed to
                              reference                                                                                 action/change
                                            Due to all the above, and with the aim of increasing the RES share
                                            in the production of heating and cooling energy, intention is to
                                            define an incentive system, to be implemented through the
                                            secondary legislation.


Additional technical           Issued       HEP-Operator prijenosnog sustava d.o.o. (HEP-Transmission              RER Project:
conditions for the wind       31.12.2008.   System Operator) stipulates technical requirements for wind
power plant connection and        by        power plants regarding their connection and operation aiming at        A1-7.3: Support of the
operation in the                 HEP-       the secure operation of the system with the significant share of       Development of Transmission
transmission grid" (Wind     Transmission   wind power plants. These technical requirements are provided due       System Operator (TSO) ­ II
Grid Code for transmission      System      to wind power plants influence on the electricity system operation.    - Revision of the Wind Grid
grid 110kV, 220 kV, 400        Operator                                                                            Code, and proposals for
kV)                                         Requirements set by this document refer to all wind power plants       amendments.
                             www.hep.hr/    connected to the transmission grid under the competence of HEP-
                                 ops/       OPS regardless to the size of construction and location of the
                              /document     connection. HEP-OPS reserves the right by acquiring adequate
                                            operating experience to make amendments to these Additional
                                            technical requirements for wind power plant connection and
                                            operation in the transmission grid, e.g., to set a limit for wind
                                            power plant size of construction above which the specified
                                            requirements must be met.

The Grid Code - Network      01.04.2006.    These Network and System Rules (hereinafter referred to as the         RER Project:
and System Rules               Official     «Grid Code») set out operation and management, development
                               Gazette      and construction of, and connection to the transmission and the        A1-7.2: Support of the
                              36/2006       distribution system, as well as metering rules in accounting points.   Development of Distribution
                                                                                                                   System Operator (DSO)
                                            The Grid Code sets out the following:
                                            - technical and other conditions for user connection to the system,    - Detailed analysis of
                                            - technical and other conditions for safe electricity system           technical conditions, per


                                                                     42
Legislative/Regulatory/   Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change                TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change       record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                   that contributed to
                           reference                                                                                action/change
                                        operation,                                                             technical conditions, per
                                        - procedure in the times of the electricity system crises,             voltage level, for the
                                        - technical and other conditions for interconnection and interaction   connection of wind power
                                        of systems,                                                            plants to the distribution
                                        - technical and other conditions for accounting for the measured       system, and the measures for
                                        electricity.                                                           safe use, operation and
                                                                                                               exploitation of wind power
                                                                                                               plants within the distribution
                                                                                                               system (so called "Wind
                                                                                                               Code").

Update / Revision of:                                                                                          RER Project:
                          Expected in   Croatia became a candidate country for the EU membership in
1. RER National Action    year 2011.    2004, accession negotiations are near the end, which means that        A1-5: Support to MoELE -
Plan                                    Croatia has harmonized its legislation with the EU Acquis              Development of policies and
                                        Communautaire. Accession to the EU is expected by 2012.                measures for increasing the
                                        Croatian renewable energy targets are in accordance with EU joint      RER share and achieving
                                        target, calculated on the basis of the effort sharing principle that   long-term mandatory targets
                                        accepts economic differences between the EU member countries.
                                        The main existing measure is feed-in tariff for renewable energy
                                        sources in electricity production. In spite of great interest of
                                        investors in new projects, practice has shown that implementation
                                        is not efficient enough; many barriers exist, including
                                        administrative licensing procedures that should be improved.

                                        The Action Plan is aimed to help in enforcement of existing
                                        measures and to propose development of new ones that will enable
                                        Croatia to reach its ambitious renewable energy targets in the



                                                                 43
Legislative/Regulatory/   Date/public   Explanation of purpose and significance of action/change               TA within RER Project
 Policy action/change       record      for creating an enabling environment for RE investment                  that contributed to
                           reference                                                                               action/change
                                        future.

                                        The key underlying document used for preparation of the Action
                                        Plan is the new Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of
                                        Croatia for the period until 2020, and also a background
                                        document, the so called "Green paper". The goal of the Strategy is
                                        to build a sustainable energy system with balanced development of
                                        relations between environmental protection, competitiveness and
                                        security of energy supply, which will enable secure and available
                                        energy supply to the Croatian citizens and the economy, under the
                                        conditions of uncertain situation in the global energy markets and
                                        with scarce local energy resources. One of the specific tasks of the
                                        Strategy is to set targets for renewable energy sources in
                                        accordance with the EU approach and targets as outlined in the EU
                                        energy and climate change policy package.




                                                                 44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments from Irena Dubravec, EPEEF7

1) Contribution of EPEEF to the GEF Project

At the start of the Project, contribution from EPEEF was expected to come in three forms:
    a) Technical due diligence for the CLF projects;

      b) Guarantees for CLF, i.e. financial compensations to HBOR for any defaulting CLF loans;
         and

      c) Co-financing of consulting services procured by HBOR under Component B (Project
         Preparation).

Of the above three items, only the first one has fully materialized. This was an in-kind
contribution provided in the form of technical expertise of EPEEF staff advising HBOR on the
technical merits of the projects. The scope and process of technical due diligence was governed
by a list of 42 questions8 that project developers had to answer, including technology, economic,
meteorological, land ownership, and other disciplines. Under the second item, the contribution
was contingent upon CLF loans defaulting, which did not happen during the life of the GEF
Project. Therefore, no monetary contribution from EPEEF was made. No contribution was made
as per the third item. Overall, no monetary contribution was made by EPEEF to the Project, but
the in-kind contribution in the form of technical due diligence was essential.
It should be kept in mind that EPEEF has its own major portfolio of Government-supported RE
projects, apart from those under the GEF Project.

2) Prospects of financial closure for CLF projects

All fifteen CLF projects are expected to be profitable (with biogas projects bringing payback of
5-7 years, wind a little longer) but there are issues with access to finance due to risks perceived
by the banking community. The chances of financial closure for all 15 CLF projects are good,
based on the high quality of their preparation. Banks are now more aware of the good quality of
the projects, and are likely to finance them. EPEEF has undertaken a series of outreach activities
(including conferences, workshops, website, etc.) to raise awareness about RE projects as
attractive investments.

3) Overall assessment of the GEF Project

The Project went well overall. Understaffing of the technical due diligence function of EPEEF
was a notable shortcoming, with only one person engaged in this activity initially, while 2-3
persons were required. This was a reflection of insufficient awareness/appreciation of the benefits
of renewable energy development in Croatia. The situation is improving, and the Project has
contributed to this. Both components of the Project (A and B) were essential.

7
    This summary is based on e-mail of 28-Jun-2010, followed by a phone call on 29-Jun-2010.

8
    The list, available only in Croatian, was developed separately from the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).


                                                      45
4) Benefits to EPEEF project portfolio from GEF Project

GEF Project Component A (Market Framework) had important benefits for EPEEF's own project
portfolio. In addition, the staff of EPEEF has received important learning-by-doing benefits from
the experience of providing technical due diligence under Component B. To provide a reliable
evaluation of projects, one needs to be conversant with a full range of technical areas of expertise.

5) Future operation of CLF

Post GEF grant financing, the contracts that EPEEF has signed with the CLF borrowers (jointly
with HBOR) will remain valid at least until all loans are repaid to HBOR (expected in about
2014). This will complete the first lending cycle of the CLF program that was launched under the
GEF project.




                                                 46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Project Document dated May 2005
   2. Project Implementation Plan
   3. Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
   4. Financial Monitoring Reports
   5. Legal documents, including GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and Project
      Agreement
   6. Cost-Benefit Analysis for RE in Croatia, Frontier Economics, May 2003




                                       47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33394R1



                                                                                                      CR O ATI A
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         MAIN ROADS
colors, denominations and
any other information shown                                             COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) CAPITALS                                                                        RAILROADS
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                  COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) BOUNDARIES
Group, any judgment on the
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
acceptance of such
boundaries.



                           14°E                               15°E                                16°E                                     17°E                                     18°E                                    19°E


                              U STRIA
                            A US TR
                            AU STR I A                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                           Zalaegerszeg


                                                                                              To                  MEDIMURSKA                  To
                                                                                             Graz                                           Kaposvar
                                                                                                                       Cakovec

                                                                              To
                                                                                                    Varazdin
                                                                                                          VARAZDINSKA                     KOPRIVNICKO-
                                                                                                                                                                         HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                         HUNGA RY
                                                                           Ljubljana                                   Koprivnica KRIZEVACKA
                                                                                                  Krapina
                                                                                           KRAPINSKO-                                             Durdevac                                                            To
46°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baja                               46°N
                                                                                           ZAGORSKA                                                                       To
                                      SLOVENI
                                      SLOVENIA
                                      S LOVEN I A                       To                                      ZAGREBACKA                 Bjelovar
                                                                                                                                                                         Pecs                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pecs                              To
                                                                     Ljubljana                ZAGREB                                                                   Virovitica                                                  Sombor
                                                                                                                       Ivanic BJELOVARSKO-
                                                                           ZAGREBACKA              GRAD                Grad BILOGORSKA                                                              OSJECKO-
                                                                                                                                                                      VIROVITICKO-                                                     To
            To                                            To                                      ZAGREB                                   Daruvar                    PODRAVSKA                    BARANJSKA
                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sombor
          Trieste          Trieste                     Ljubljana
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Osijek
                                                                                                      K up a           Sisak
                                                                                       Karlovac                                Sav                            POZESKO-SLAVONSKA Nasice
                                                                                                                                     a     Novska                               
                                                                                                                                                                               Pozega                            Vukovar             un




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
             ISTARSKA                       Rijeka                                                                                                                                                                                        ay (
                                                                                                  Glina                                                                                                                                       Danube)
                Pazin                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vinkovci
                                                                                                  SISACKO-MOSLAVACKA                                    BRODSKO-                            Slav
     
  Porec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                        PRIMORSKO-                  KARLOVACKA                                                                          POSAVSKA                            Brod               VUKOVARSKO-                         Novi Sad
                                        GORANSKA                                                                                                                                                                  SRIJEMSKA
                                                                                               To               Dvor     To                                To                                                                                 To
                              Stalije            Krk                                          Bihac                      Prijedor                       Banja Luka                                                                            Ruma      45°N
45°N                                                         Senj                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                    Doboj           To          To
             Pula                                                                                                                                                                                  Doboj       Tuzla
                                                               Otocac                              To
                                                                                                  Bihac
                                     Cres      Rab              LICKO-
                                                 Jablanac
                                                               SENJSKA
                                                                                                      Un
                                                                                                        a




                                  Losinj
                                                       Karlobag               Gospic

                                                               Pag
                                                                                            Udbina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                  Gracac
                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                   BOSNIA A ND
                                                                                                                                                                   BO SNIA AND
                                                                   Zadar
                                                                                       ZADARSKA                   Glamoc
                                                                                                                                                                  HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                  HERZEGO VINA
                                                         Pasman
44°N                                                    Dugi                                                                                                                                                                                            44°N
                                                                                                         Knin    Dinara
                                                        Otok                                                    (1830 m)

                                                                                         Vodice
                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                  Sibenik                                      Livno
                                                                                 SIBENSKO-                                         Sinj

                                  Adr iat ic                                     KNINSKA                 Trogir
                                                                                                                           Split
                                    Sea                                                                                                           Imotski
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                Mostar
                                                                                                         SPLITSKO-
 I TA LY                                                                                           DALMATINSKA
                                                                                                                               Brac
                                                                                                                                              Makarska                     To
                                                                                                                                                                          Mostar
                                                                                                                                   Hvar

43°N                                                                                                      Vis                                                 Ploce             Metkovic                                                                43°N

                                                                                                                                          Korcula           Peljesac

                                                                                                                                     DUBROVACKO-                                                                     MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                       Mljet                                 To
                                                                                                                                     NERETVANSKA                                                          Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dubrovnik
                    CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gruda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Podgorica


                                                                                                                                              0        20           40         60 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                              0                20                40 Miles
42°N

                    14°E                                   15°E                                    16°E                                       17°E                                          18°E                                     19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2006
