Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 78875
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
Republic of Croatia
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT (IBRD-71980)
RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES PROJECT (TF-54973)
DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT (IBRD-48280)
June 27, 2013
IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group


﻿Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
2002  US$1.00     HRK8.5
2003 US$1.00      HRK7.1
2004  US$1.00     HRIK6.1
2005 US$1.00      HRK5.7
2006 US$1.00      HRIK6.1
2007 US$1.00      HRK5.7
2008 US$1.00      HRK5.0
2009 US$1.00      HRK5.5
2010 US$1.00      HRK5.1
2011 US$1.00      HRK5.5
2012  US$1.00     HRK5.8 (as of December 2012)


﻿Abbreviations and Acronyms
EPEEF        Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund
ESCO         Energy Service Company
EU           European Union
FY           Fiscal Year
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GHG          Greenhouse Gases
HBOR         Hrvatsa banka za obnovu i razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development)
HEP          Hrvatsa Elektroprivreda (National Power Utility)
HEP ESCO     HEP Energy Service Company (subsidiary of HEP)
HEP T        HEP Toplinarstvo (HEP District Heating Company)
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
MoC          Ministry of Construction and Physical Planning
MoELE        Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship
Fiscal Year
Government:            January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                             Mr. Ramachandra Jammi


﻿
﻿1
Contents
Principal Ratings..................            ........................             ..... vii
Key Staff Responsible..........     .................................. viii
Preface........................................................ xi
Summary......................................................xiii
1. Background and Context............................................1
2. Energy Efficiency Project..........................                    ................5
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance .................               ...............5
Implementation.................................................9
Achievement of the Objectives.................                 .....................11
Efficiency....................................................16
Ratings ........................................................17
3. Renewable Energy Resources Project.................................21
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance .................               ..............21
Achievement of the Objectives....................                   ..................24
Efficiency....................................................27
Ratings......................................................27
4. District Heating Project.................................................31
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance .................               ..............31
Implementation................................................33
Achievement of the Objectives....................                   ..................34
Efficiency....................................................38
Ratings......................................................39
5. Lessons...................................................... 42
References...................................................... 43
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet.......................................... 44
Annex B. Other Tables............................................. 50
Annex C. Croatia: Trends in the Energy Sector and Energy Efficiency...            ............ 51
Annex D. List of Persons Met........................................ 55
Annex E. Borrower Comments....................................... 57
This report was prepared by Ramachandra Jammi, who assessed the projects in November 2012. The
report was peer reviewed by Varadarajan Atur and panel reviewed by Fernando Manibog. Romayne
Pereira provided administrative support.


﻿Tables
Table 1: Site Visits to Beneficiaries under the Energy Efficiency Project.. ......... 12
Table 2:Renewable Energy Projects Availing Contingency Loan Fund:  . ........... 25
Table 3: Status of Renewable energy Projects in the Renewable Energy Registry.......... 26
Table 4: District Heating Project: Physical Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes .............. 35
Table 5: District Heating Project: Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes during 2010-2011 .. 35
Table 6: District Heating Project: Outcome Indicators Baseline (2005); At project
Completion (2009); 2010-2011..................................... 36
Table 7: District Heating Project: Financial Outcome/Intermediate Outcome Indicators 37
Table 8: District Heating Project: Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes for Customer
Satisfaction Baseline (2005); At project Completion (2009); 2010-2011  ........... 38
Table 9:Croatia: Energy Sources in Total Primary Energy Consumption.. ........... 51
Table 10: Croatia: Sector-wise Final Energy Consumption  ............... ..... 52
Table 11: Croatia: National indicative targets for Energy Savings in 2016 ................. 53
Figures
Figure 1: Croatia: Energy Efficiency Index ODEX..................... 54


﻿vii
Principal Ratings
Energy Efficiency Project
ICR *                ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome             Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                Negligible to Low            Moderate            Negligible to Low
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                  Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Renewable Energy Resources Project
ICR                  ICR Review                 PPAR
Outcome                   Moderately               Moderately              Moderately
Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Risk to                   Significant              Significant              Moderate
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance          Moderately               Moderately              Moderately
Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Borrower                  Moderately               Moderately              Moderately
Performance              Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
District Heating Project
ICR                  ICR Review                 PPAR
Outcome                   Moderately               Moderately              Moderately
Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Risk to                    Moderate                Significant              Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance          Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower            Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately              Moderately
Performance                                      Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory


﻿Viii
Key Staff Responsible
Energy Efficiency Project
Division Chief!
Project         Task Manager/Leader         Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal           Peter Johansen          Peter Thompson           Anand K. Seth
Completion          Peter Johansen         Ranjit J. Lamech         Peter C. Harrold
Renewable Energy Resources Project
Division Chief!
Project         Task Manager/Leader         Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal           Peter Johansen          Peter Thompson           Anand K. Seth
Completion          Peter Johansen         Ranjit J. Lamech         Peter C. Harrold
District Heating Project
Division Chief/
Project         Task Manager/Leader         Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal           Sudipto Sarkar          Peter Thompson           Anand K. Seth
Completion      Pekka Kalevi Salminen      Ranjit J. Lamech         Peter C. Harrold


﻿ix
IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
independent evaluation.
About this Report
The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
IEG's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


﻿
﻿xi
Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report, prepared by the Independent Evaluation
Group (IEG), evaluates three energy sector projects in Croatia: the Energy Efficiency
Project (2003-2010), the Renewable Energy Resources Project (2005-2010), and the
District Heating Project (2006-2010).
The three projects cover the assistance of the World Bank and the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) to Croatia's energy sector since 2003. Together, the projects addressed
the country's energy sector priority areas of promoting energy efficiency and developing
renewable sources of energy. These issues are important for lowering energy imports,
making the economy more competitive, and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases
(GHG). As it moves toward full accession to the European Union in July 2013, the
country is also gearing itself for EU-wide targets for energy efficiency and share of
renewable sources of energy in the total energy mix.
The World Bank and GEF have several ongoing or completed projects in one or more of
the energy efficiency, renewable energy and District Heating subsectors, in many
countries of the Eastern Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. Croatia is unique in that
it has completed WB/GEF projects in all the three subsectors. These three projects share
complementary or common issues relating to policy, regulation, institutional
development, raising awareness, stimulating private investment, and developing public-
private partnerships. The implementation periods of the three projects also overlapped
for the most part. These factors were taken into account when selecting these projects for
assessment. The findings and lessons from this assessment are also likely to be a useful
input to the forthcoming IEG evaluation of the World Bank Group's contribution to
electricity access in client countries.
IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Documents, Implementation Completion and Results Reports, legal agreements, project
files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, documents, memoranda and working
papers. An IEG field mission visited Croatia during November 2012. Discussions were
held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in Zagreb, and government and other
officials in Zagreb, Osijek, and other locations in the country. The mission discussed the
projects' experience and the effectiveness of Bank assistance with other stakeholders
including municipalities, schools, and industries. Several site visits were undertaken in
several locations covering municipalities, schools, and industries.
The mission expresses its appreciation for the generous time and attention given by the
Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the mission is in Annex D.
Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report was sent to government officials and
implementing agencies, and comments received from the government are attached as
Annex E.


﻿
﻿xiii
Summary
Croatia has outperformed the rest of the former Yugoslav republics in economic
performance during most of the last decade. Total energy consumption has also risen
with overall economic growth, though both these have shown a downward trend since the
onset of the financial crisis in 2008. As and when Croatia emerges from recession, the
prospect of increasing energy consumption and import needs (Croatia imports nearly 55
percent of its total energy needs) makes energy efficiency a clear economic priority for
Croatia. Even though there have been significant gains in energy efficiency during
1995-20 10, particularly in the industry and transport sectors, the household sector -
which now accounts for about 30 percent of final energy consumption - has lagged
behind significantly in this respect.
Increasing the share of renewable energy, for which there is significant potential in the
country, is a parallel priority to decreasing the dependence on imports and to decreasing
greenhouse gas emissions. As Croatia moves toward full membership of the EU by July
2013, the country has to ramp up its efforts to meet the EU "20-20-20" goal by the year
2020 - to cut greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent, increase energy efficiency by 20
percent, and use renewable energy for 20 percent of its energy needs.
Croatia's energy sector policies and regulatory framework have generally kept pace with
the challenges presented by its energy efficiency and renewable energy agenda, and for
aligning with EU policies. More recently, the New Energy Act (2012) creates the
conditions for development of the energy market, competitive prices, customer
protection, efficient production and energy efficiency.
Efforts to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy, and rehabilitating the District
Heating sector (as a specific area for improving energy efficiency) share several common
challenges relating to policy, regulation, institutional development, raising of public
awareness, private investment promotion, and the development of public-private
partnerships. Based on their experience with similar projects in Eastern Europe, the
World Bank and GEF were in a unique position to assist Croatia in addressing the
overlapping challenges across energy efficiency, renewable energy and district heating.
This Project Performance Assessment Report assesses the development effectiveness of
three energy sector projects in Croatia: the Energy Efficiency Project (2003-20 10), the
Renewable Energy Resources Project (2005-2010), and the District Heating Project
(2006-2010). The objectives of each project were:
*  Energy Efficiency Project: "to increase the demand for and supply of energy
efficiency projects and services in the Republic of Croatia." The project's global
environment objective was "to overcome three barriers to energy efficiency market
development and financing: (i) lack of capacity and know-how; (ii) lack of
development and project financing; and (ii) lack of consumer demand."
* Renewable Energy Resources Project: "to help develop an economically and
environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy resources in Croatia." The


﻿xiv
project's global environment objective was "to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a
continuous basis by overcoming barriers to implementation of renewable energy."
* District Heating Project: "to promote efficient provision of District Heating services
by the Project Implementing Entity."
The outcomes of the three projects, the risk to the sustainability of these outcomes, and
the performance of the Bank, the government and the implementing agencies are
summarized below.
Energy Efficiency Project
The Energy Efficiency project was financed by the World Bank and the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). The project was instrumental in establishing Croatia's first
Energy Service Company (HEP ESCO, a subsidiary of the state-owned national power
utility HEP), which helps clients to design and implement energy efficiency measures
that are paid for through the resulting energy savings (the ESCO model). The project
succeeded in raising awareness of energy efficiency issues, and the ESCO model in
particular, among government institutions, industry, and the public at large, whereas
these issues were not widely known or understood before. During project
implementation, HEP ESCO supported several successful projects in city public lighting,
schools, industrial units, and hospitals.
The objective of increasing the demand for and supply of energy efficiency projects and
services in Croatia was partially achieved but the momentum slowed towards the end of
the project and beyond. A wider competitive market for improving energy efficiency in
the private sector has yet to be realized due to risk aversion on the part of banks,
underdeveloped mechanisms for verification of energy savings, and the need for greater
awareness and consumer demand for adopting the ESCO model. While a good beginning
was made in several sectors including city public lighting, schools, hospitals and some
industrial units, little progress was made in the residential sector where there is much
potential for improving energy efficiency. The estimated savings in GHG emissions from
the project were short of the targeted amounts.
The continuing financial crisis that began in 2008 resulted in less attention being paid to
investments in energy efficiency, and dampened investor interest in availing the project's
Partial Credit Guarantee facility, which was intended to stimulate financing of energy
efficiency investments. On the positive side, Croatia's imminent accession to the EU and
the prospect of EU funds becoming available have spurred the adoption of a new Energy
Law and various secondary legislations, and a major effort for refurbishing public
buildings, which may further stimulate the energy efficiency efforts in the country.
In designing this project, the Bank drew upon lessons from similar projects in other
countries in the region, and provided for building capacity and mitigating risks in the
institutional, technical and financial areas. A shortcoming was the failure to coordinate
effectively with UNDP, which provided parallel financing for the Partial Credit
Guarantee Facility, thus reducing its effectiveness. The Borrower showed commitment
to the project objectives by acting on several aspects of the necessary policy and


﻿xv
regulatory framework. The implementing agency HEP ESCO displayed technical
competence and diligence in promoting projects using the ESCO approach.
Renewable Energy Project
The Renewable Energy project was supported solely by GEF and no IBRD funds were
involved. The achievement of the global environment objective was below expectations,
with the reduction in CO2 emissions continuing to be far short of the target. This was
because only one project - out of the 15 renewable projects that availed funding from the
contingency loan fund (CLF) set up by the project - managed to reach financial closure at
project completion. The expectation that the remaining projects would quickly come to
financial closure and become operational has not been realized, with only two projects
totaling 2 MW operational at end-2012.
At project commencement, Croatia had little expertise and an underdeveloped regulatory
framework to design and implement renewable energy projects. In addressing this
situation, the project design appropriately covered the elements of enacting necessary
secondary legislation, strengthening institutional capacity, promoting incentive
frameworks and markets, project pipeline preparation, and eventually investment
financing. The results framework could have been enhanced by bringing more clarity to
the linkages between the inputs, and onwards to outputs and outcomes. The necessary
regulation and the modalities for the contingent loan facility were delayed, all of which
contributed to a modest achievement of project objectives.
On the positive side, the project helped develop a regulatory environment for renewable
energy that is compliant with EU requirements. Specific actions relate to technology-
specific feed-in tariffs for renewable energy and renewable energy grid integration. A
Renewable Energy Registry (RER) was created to support pre-feasibility studies, and
technical assistance was offered to grid and market operators. Moreover, although
renewable energy developers found the procedures for registration and processing of
renewable energy project applications to be overly cumbersome during project
implementation, these procedures are reported to have been greatly simplified since then.
The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) as the implementing
agency coordinated well with the Ministry of Economy Labour and Entrepreneurship
(MoELE), and the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF),
which had an important upstream role for the technical appraisals and as a co-financier.
In retrospect, however, the project design was too ambitious in the light of weak capacity
in the country's renewable energy sector. Moreover, HBOR was very slow in starting up
its project activities, thus resulting in a large accumulated workload during the last year
of project implementation.
District Heating Project
The District Heating project addressed improvements in the District Heating systems for
Zagreb and Osijek cities, which were facing deteriorating infrastructure and severe
financial losses through non-remunerative tariffs, and a lack of demand side
management. The project was generally successful in meeting its objectives of reducing


﻿Xvi
heat and water losses in the system through replacing old pipelines. These outcomes have
been broadly sustained to the present. However, the objective of achieving financial
viability of the District Heating company HEP T could not be met as losses increased
throughout the project period and continued to worsen beyond project completion, mainly
due to insufficient increases in tariffs. The New Energy Act that was approved in
November 2012 has liberalized energy pricing, including for District Heating. HEP as
the parent company is now able to set District Heating tariffs subject to the approval of
HERA, Croatia's Energy Regulatory Agency. This mission was informed that a
significant increase in District Heating tariffs was expected, which can potentially cover
HEP T's operating costs. However, tariff increases are likely to be met by consumer
resistance unless accompanied by an increase in efficiency of District Heating services.
Little headway has been made in demand-side management, and buildings continue to
lack individual meters in housing units, obviating any incentive for rational use of heating
by households.
The project design was clear and logical with technical and policy measures combining to
produce desired physical and financial outcomes. The implementing agency HEP T
displayed competence and diligence in carrying out the activities under the project and
maintained a cooperative and productive relationship with the Bank team.
Ratings
The Energy Efficiency Project is rated high for relevance of the project development
objective as well as relevance of project design. Development Outcome is rated
moderately satisfactory for disseminating the concept and practice of energy efficiency
where it was little understood or practiced before, successfully creating HEP ESCO, and
increasing the demand and supply of energy efficiency services and products in several
targeted sectors based on the ESCO model. Risk to development outcome is rated
negligible to low due to renewed activity for improving energy efficiency spurred by the
EU directives and goals. Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory are
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
The Renewable Energy Resources Project is rated high for relevance of the project
development objective, and substantial for project design. The Global Environmental
Outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory because of the low realization of CO2
emissions reductions due to much fewer renewable energy projects becoming operational
than expected. Risk to development outcome is rated moderate due to the recent
favorable energy sector legislation and the impetus expected from EU accession.
Borrower and Bank performance are both rated moderately unsatisfactory.
The District Heating Project is rated high for relevance of the project development
objective, and substantial for project design. Development Outcome is rated
moderately unsatisfactory, mainly due to the poor financial performance of HEP T, the
District Heating company. Risk to development outcome is rated significant due to
continuing concerns on the financial viability of HEP T. Bank performance is rated
satisfactory and Borrower performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.


﻿xvii
Lessons
A supportive regulatory environment is crucial for overcoming risk aversion to
adopting new financing instruments for energy efficiency projects, creating a level
playing field for a competitive ESCO market, and to ensure sustainability of energy
services.
*  The Energy Efficiency project was unable to stimulate the ESCO market beyond
some sectors in the public domain due to remaining regulatory and legal constraints
(as for example in the residential sector).
*  In Croatia, two factors may have inhibited the emergence of a competitive regime for
ESCOs: (a) HEP ESCO's special standing as a subsidiary of the national power
utility HEP; and (b) the lack of standardized contract models, budgeting procedures,
and public procurement rules.
*  The capacity of HEP T, the District Heating Company, to provide reliable services in
the long run is likely to be impacted if its financial viability is not assured through
either remunerative tariffs or well-designed subsidies.
Ensuring reliable means for verifying energy savings provides a clear basis for
sharing the resulting gains between the beneficiary and the financing source, and
therefore incentivizes energy efficiency efforts.
*  Underdeveloped means for monitoring and verification meant that there was an
inadequate basis for sharing the gains from energy savings, thus creating a
disincentive for adopting the ESCO model.
*   Given the prospect of HEP increasing District Heating tariffs in the future, demand-
side management should be promoted to ease the transition to higher tariffs. In
particular, individual metering will need to be introduced widely so that each unit can
be charged for their actual energy use.
There is a need for the Government to coordinate its various ministries in order to
provide common technical and other support services, with a view to mitigating
risks for investors and consumers in renewable energy efforts.
* While rights to state-owned land are being handed out to the private sector or for
public-private partnerships in solar and wind power projects, energy resource
mapping and mature project designs need to be provided as a common service by the
government. In the case of biomass projects, where various ministries including
forestry and water are involved, horizontal connections between ministries need to be
strengthened. These arrangements were lacking during the Renewable Energy
Resources project experience.
Caroline Heider
Director-General
Evaluation


﻿
﻿1
1. Background and Context
1.1    The three projects covered by this report address the country's energy sector
priority areas of promoting energy efficiency and developing renewable sources of
energy. These areas assume renewed importance as Croatia prepares to join the EU and
gears up for long term sustainable growth. In this context, improving energy efficiency
and the share of renewable sources in the total energy mix is crucial for lowering energy
imports, making the economy more competitive, and reducing emissions of greenhouse
gases (GHG).
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy: Key Elements for Croatia's Sustainable
Growth
1.2    Croatia has led the rest of the former Yugoslav republics in economic
performance during most of the last decade, with annual GDP growth rates between 4
and 6 percent during 2000-2007. While the country still enjoys the highest GDP per
capita among this group of countries', the onset of the global financial crisis has seen the
economy contract by more than 10 percent since 2008.
1.3   Along with overall economic growth, the total primary energy consumption in
Croatia has increased at an average annual rate of 1.6 percent during 1995-2010, though
there has been a negative 3.0 percent growth since 2008 due to the economic slowdown.
There have been significant gains in energy efficiency during 1995-2010, with the energy
efficiency index2 for the whole economy improving by 14.5 percent. The industrial
sector and transport sector contributed the most to this improvement with the energy
efficiency index improving by 20 percent and 19 percent respectively over the 1995-2010
period. In contrast, the improvement in energy efficiency in the household sector was
much lower at 4 percent. This is significant because the household sector now accounts
for nearly 30 percent of final energy consumption.
1.4   In 2010, Croatia imported nearly 55 percent of its total energy needs. As and
when Croatia emerges from recession, the prospect of increasing energy consumption and
import needs makes energy efficiency a clear economic priority for Croatia. Increasing
the share of renewable energy, for which there is significant potential in the country, is a
parallel priority to decrease the dependence on energy imports as well as to decrease
greenhouse gas emissions. Also, as Croatia moves toward full membership of EU by
July 2013, the country is ramping up its efforts for its commitment to the EU "20-20-20"
goal by the year 2020 - to cut greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent, increase energy
efficiency by 20 percent, and use renewable energy for 20 percent of its energy needs.
These ambitious targets require significant long-term investments not easily available in a
time of economic crisis in Europe. They also pose a challenge for a country that is
struggling to emerge from recession.
1 Croatia's GDP per capita was US$19,500 in 2011 (at purchasing power parity)
2 ODEX is the index used in the ODYSSEE-MURE project supported by the European Commission to
measure the energy efficiency progress by main sector (industry, transport, households) and for the whole
economy (all final consumers). A decrease in the index indicated higher energy efficiency.


﻿2
1.5   A summary of trends in energy consumption and energy efficiency is presented in
Annex C.
Cross-cutting challenges for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
1.6    Efforts for promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy, and rehabilitating
the District Heating sector (as a specific area for improving energy efficiency) share
several common challenges relating to policy, regulation, institutional development,
raising of public awareness, private investment promotion, and the development of
public-private partnerships. Market-oriented policies for energy pricing are needed to
send the right signal and incentivize investments in energy efficiency and renewable
energy. Capacity building and raising awareness is crucial in situations where the
benefits and modalities of adopting energy efficiency and renewable energy are not
widely known or appreciated. Reliable means for monitoring and verification of savings
from energy efficiency improvements are needed to instill confidence in both consumers
and investors. Similarly, a clear feed-in tariff regime and technical means for integration
to the grid are crucial for attracting investments for renewable energy.
Croatia's Energy Sector Policy and Regulatory Readiness for its Energy Efficiency
and Renewable Energy Challenges
1.7    The legal framework for the energy sector in Croatia is defined through a package
of energy laws that include several pieces of primary legislation.3 Croatia's energy policy
is also framed by relevant international agreements to which it is a signatory, and the
country's imminent accession to the EU. Important documents include the Energy
Charter Treaty (1994), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change;
(1996); Kyoto Protocol (2007), and the EU's evolving energy legislation. In addition, the
EU requires each Member State to have active policies for the promotion of energy
efficiency and renewable energy although the design and implementation is mainly the
responsibility of the individual member states.
1.8    The Energy Sector Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia (2002)
covers the period until 2030. The Strategy has the objectives of energy efficiency
improvements; security of energy supply; diversification of energy sources; utilization of
renewable resources; realistic energy prices, energy market and private entrepreneurship
development; and environmental protection.
1.9 Recent Developments and Alignment with EU policies. Croatia has passed a
new Energy Act that entered into force on 8 November 2012. The new Energy Act
harmonizes Croatian energy legislation with the European directives on the internal
market of electricity and natural gas4, thereby fulfilling the country's obligation to
harmonize its national legislation with the EU energy legislation and the EU Third
Energy Package passed in 2009. The new Energy Act creates the conditions for quality
3 Energy Act, Act on Electricity Market, Act on Gas Market, Act on Oil and Oil Products, Act on
Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat and Act on Regulation of Energy Activities, Act on Energy
End-Use Efficiency, Act on Physical Planning and Construction, Act on Regulation of Energy Agency.
4 EU Directives 2009/72/EC and 2009/73/EC)


﻿3
and safety of supply, development of the energy market, competitive prices, customer
protection, efficient production and energy efficiency, as well as decrease of negative
environmental effects and sustainable development in the energy sector. Additionally,
the new Act transfers the authority for defining prices and tariff from the Government to
the energy subjects with the approval of the regulator, the Croatian Energy Regulatory
Agency (HERA), and introduces prerequisites for passing programs to implement
intelligent measuring devices.
1.10  Currently almost all European Directives are transposed into Croatian legislation,
including the Directive on energy performance of buildings', and energy end-use
6
efficiency and energy services . That includes mandatory energy certification of
buildings and energy audits of structures, and technical requirements for building
materials concerning thermal protection. The National Energy Efficiency Action Plans
(NEEAP) of the Republic of Croatia comply with the European Commission's directive
which requires each Member State to submit to the European Commission an energy
efficiency action plan.
World Bank/GEF contribution to Croatia's Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy Agenda
1.11  Since 1999, the World Bank and GEF have financed several projects in the areas
of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and District Heating in many countries of the
Eastern Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region (Annex B, Table 1). Based on the
experience from these projects, the World Bank and GEF were in a unique position to
assist Croatia with projects in those three areas that have mutually reinforcing objectives.
All three projects that have been assessed here share complementary or common issues
relating to policy, regulation, institutional development, the raising of public awareness,
private investment promotion, and the development of public-private partnerships. The
implementation periods of the three projects overlapped for the most part over the time
period of 2003-2010.
1.12 Mainstreaming Energy Efficiency through the Energy Service Company or
ESCO model. Croatia's Energy Efficiency project supported the formation of HEP
ESCO (Hrvatska Elektroprivreda Energy Service Company) as a subsidiary of the
national power utility HEP (Hrvatska Elektroprivreda). ESCOs offer energy efficiency
improvement services to clients covering development and design of energy efficiency
projects; installation and maintenance of the energy-efficient equipment involved; and
finally, measurement, monitoring and verification of the project's energy savings.
Financing for the investment can either be provided by the ESCO from its internal funds,
by the customer, or by a third party funding, in which a financial institution allows a
credit either to the ESCO or directly to its client; the loan is then backed by a guarantee
for the projected energy or cost savings given by the ESCO.
1.13  ESCOs across the world are active in different sectors depending on the country.
In industrialized countries such as the United States and Germany, the public sector is
' 2010/31/EC
6 2006/32/EC


﻿4
one of the most important ESCO clients and has often triggered the development of a
national ESCO industry through projects in public buildings as well as through favorable
legislation and financial support. The commercial sector is an emerging ESCO client,
especially in developing countries such as Brazil or India. ESCO activity in the industrial
sector often seems to be higher in developing or transition countries. The residential
sector is the least active for ESCOs in most countries. This is due to the expected low
profits, to legal complexities in the owner-tenant relationship as well as other factors such
as difficult decision-making due to the usually high number of stakeholders.
1.14   In general, the efforts to improve energy efficiency in several countries (as well as
in Croatia) have been hindered by limited resources for financing equipment; restrictive
policies and procedures that make procurement, budgeting, and new approaches more
difficult; behavioral inertia of a risk-adverse public sector used to the status quo; lack of
or poor access to information and institutional knowledge about energy efficiency
opportunities, implementation options, certified energy-efficient equipment, and lifecycle
costing; and weak governance.
1.15   Overcoming barriers to development of Renewable Energy. The Renewable
Energy Sources project addressed the barriers to increasing energy from renewable
sources. In 2011, energy from renewable sources (apart from hydropower) amounted to
147 megawatts (comprising solar, wind, biomass and geothermal heating) which was
about 3.6 percent of total installed capacity.9 This figure is striking because the potential
for renewable energy from wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass is very high in the
country. Croatia also has a strong incentive because of its imminent EU membership and
the EU goal of sourcing 20 percent of energy from renewable sources by 2020 as part of
EU's "20-20-20" program. Croatia stands to gain from EU Structural and Cohesion
Funds that will become available for this purpose upon accession, among others.
1.16   The slow progress in renewable energy in Croatia can be attributed to the
combination of slow licensing of projects and lack of sufficient equity capital of
developers who were not prepared to share the potential profits with an external
shareholder. The permitting process for renewable energy generation facilities has been
cumbersome and involves multiple clearances from different government unitslo
although efforts have been made recently to simplify the process considerably."
1.17  Rehabilitating the District Heating network and improving its financial
viability. The District Heatingl2 project sought to help Croatia rehabilitate its district
7 WEC 2008.
8ESMAP 2012.
' MoELE statistics
10 EBRD 2010.
"For instance, this mission was informed that paper work has been reduced by the new government from
64 to 3 documents.
12 District heating is a system for distributing heat generated in a centralized location for residential and
commercial heating requirements such as space heating and water heating. The heat is often obtained from
heat-only boiler station or a cogeneration plant burning fossil fuels.


﻿5
heating network, and improve its financial viability. There are 10 District Heating
companies in the major cities and towns, serving about 400,000 people, about 10 percent
of Croatia's total population. In comparison, the share of citizens served by District
Heating is 64 percent in Latvia, 50 percent in Poland, and 17 percent in Slovenia.
Croatia's District Heating services are provided by subsidiaries of HEP and by municipal
companies, except in Rijeka where the District Heating company is jointly owned by the
municipality and the private sector. The District Heating project covered heating services
in Zagreb and Osijek which are provided by HEP Toplinarstvo (HEP T), a subsidiary of
HEP. These two cities contained 82 percent of the customers in Croatia's District
Heating sector.
1.18  Although District Heating in Croatia is considered a cost-effective and
environmentally friendly way of delivering heat, it has experienced several shortcomings
in common with most other East European countries: the piping was subject to heat and
water losses; heat was not always delivered when needed; households were not charged
on the basis of actual heat consumption, but on the floor area of their apartment (hence,
some households ultimately subsidized other households, and all households subsidized a
system prone to losses); and people could not adjust the temperature to their specific
needs, receiving a set level of heating that the District Heating plant deemed appropriate
for everyone. Heating tariffs have remained low making it difficult to cover operating
expenses apart for necessary capital expenditures, undermining HEP T's financial
viability and affecting the quality of services.
1.19  In the following chapters, each of the three projects - Energy Efficiency,
Renewable Sources, and District Heating - is assessed, followed by lessons drawn from
their overall experience.
2. Energy Efficiency Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES
2.1   According to the Project Appraisal Document, the Loan Agreement, and the GEF
Trust Fund Agreement, the Project Development Objective was "to increase the demand
for and supply of energy efficiency projects and services in the Republic of Croatia." The
Global Environment Objective was "to overcome three barriers to energy efficiency
market development and financing: (i) lack of capacity and know-how; (ii) lack of
development and project financing; and (ii) lack of consumer demand."
RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES
2.2    Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The objectives of
removing barriers to energy efficiency, and expanding the demand and supply for energy
efficiency products and services, were highly relevant at project appraisal, and remain
crucial to Croatia's economy and its environment. Improving energy efficiency is clearly


﻿6
a priority for Croatia to help reduce the amount of imported energy, create new job
opportunities, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In keeping with its imminent EU
membership Croatia's 2009 Energy Strategy is aligned with the EU's "20-20-20" goal to
increase energy efficiency by 20 percent, cut greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by
the year 2020, relative to 1990 levels, and increase the share of renewable energy to 20
percent of all energy consumed. Croatia has generally worked to align its energy policy
and regulatory framework with the European's energy efficiency strategies and
directives.
2.3    The project's objectives are consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for 2005-2009, which recognized the need for improving energy efficiency and
for meeting international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. Increasing the sustainability of long-term development through the
implementation of greenhouse gas mitigation measures is a pillar of the current Country
Partnership Strategy for 2009-2012, which has been extended to 2013.
DESIGN
2.4    The project comprised the following components:
*  Component 1: Energy Saving Investments (estimated cost at appraisal:
US$32.45 million; cost at completion: US$26.28 million). Under this component,
investments to save energy were to be implemented by HEP ESCO (Hrvatska
Elektroprivreda Energy Service Company) under Energy Services Performance
Contracts with clients managing public and private buildings, public lighting,
water pumping systems, small cogeneration units, and District Heating systems.
The Bank's loan of US$5 million would catalyze a total of U$32.5 million in
energy saving investments, with the balance of financing coming from local banks
and the end-users themselves.
*  Component 2: HEP ESCO Project Development and Financing (estimated
cost at appraisal: US$3.60 million; actual cost at completion: US$3.25 million).
This component financed: (i) project development by HEP ESCO for pre-contract
analysis and identification of good candidate projects (US$0.6 million from the
GEF grant); and (ii) early project financing to cover bridge funding of project
design services and initial investments for energy savings (US$3.0 million).
*  Component 3: Creditworthiness Enhancement Mechanism (estimated cost at
appraisal: US$2.00 million; actual cost at completion: US$0.90 million). Under
this component, a mechanism was to be set up at the Croatian Development Bank
(HBOR) to enhance the creditworthiness of HEP ESCO, other energy service
providers, and end-users. A Commercial Loan Facility (US$0.8 million from the
GEF grant) would be a first-loss reserve for HEP ESCO to mitigate end-user risks
that HEP ESCO would be exposed to when it finances projects directly. A Partial
Credit Guarantee program (US$1.2 million from the GEF grant) would
underwrite energy efficiency lending by commercial banks.


﻿7
Component 4: GEF Technical Assistance (estimated cost at appraisal: US$1.50
million; actual cost at completion: US$ 2.85 million). Under the GEF grant, this
component would provide technical assistance - including training, information
dissemination, outreach, monitoring and verification - to HEP ESCO staff and
project partners, other energy efficiency businesses, HBOR (Hrvatska banka za
obnovu i razvitak or the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development), and
nonprofit and consumer groups. HEP ESCO would also receive capacity-building
assistance and transfer of management expertise from an experienced
international ESCO strategic partner.
2.5   Monitoring & Evaluation Design. The monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
framework contained a wide range of indicators to address the scope of the project
objectives, and baseline values were provided where available. The task of implementing
M&E was assigned to a non-profit organization and was supported by the GEF grant.
2.6    For the project development objective, the outcome indicators were HEP ESCO
customer satisfaction; number of target market segments with significant energy
efficiency activity; number of firms actively engaged in provision of energy efficiency
services; number of local banks engaged in energy efficiency financing and lending
activity; and the performance track record of commercially viable energy efficiency
projects, as measured by number of incidents reported of project failure after contract
signature. However, most of these indicators are in the nature of outputs rather than
outcomes. Customer satisfaction as an outcome indicator can be subjective and pick up
perceptions other than those related to direct savings arising from improved energy
efficiency. The M&E design could have included outcome indicators that would have
more directly measured or reflected improvements in energy efficiency.
2.7    For the global environmental objective, the outcome indicators covered the
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at project level; increase in availability of energy
efficiency products in Croatia; total expenditures for goods in Croatian currency; price
premium of energy efficiency products in Croatia relative to typical EU prices; number of
added Croatian citizens accepting energy efficiency as a normal way of life; and number
of target market segments with significant energy efficiency activity.
2.8   Intermediate outcome indicators were mostly financial indicators that were
amenable to regular reporting and included the value of energy efficiency projects
implemented by HEP ESCO; HEP ESCO net income; lending volume to HEP ESCO by
local Banks; number of grant fund agreements signed; and disbursements from the
Guarantee Facility Account.
2.9   Implementation Arrangements. Energy efficiency policy in Croatia is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship (MoELE) in
cooperation with the Ministry of Construction and Physical Planning (MoC). The
Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) and the National Power
Utility (HEP) were the implementing agencies for the project. The project sought to
introduce an ESCO model by working with HEP with the support of donors. Support for
developing a detailed business plan was obtained from an international consulting firm
specialized in the start-up of ESCO operations.


﻿O


﻿9
RELEVANCE OF DESIGN
2.10   Relevance ofproject design is rated High. The project design was intuitive and
clear. The inputs to the project came from the Bank's catalytic role of providing seed
financing for investments in energy savings; local banks expected to finance most of the
funding required; while GEF sought to build market confidence by providing grants to
identify good projects, mitigating risks, underwriting lending through guarantees,
building capacity, and strengthening institutions. Together, these inputs were expected to
help overcome barriers to energy efficiency market development and financing; and
helping to increase the demand for and supply of energy efficiency projects and services
in the country.
2.11   The start-up phase of the project was to help set up HEP ESCO as a subsidiary of
the state-owned energy utility and provide technical assistance to the new entity for
building capacity in project development, financing and implementation. The
expectation was that the successful implementation of projects by HEP ESCO would
generate interest from commercial banks and other ESCOs in the potential for energy
efficiency investments, while also raising awareness among customers. HEP ESCO's
target market included owners and occupants of buildings of various types such as
housing cooperatives, commercial enterprises and public service facilities like schools
and hospitals The technical assistance package was designed comprehensively, by
targeting the full range of relevant stakeholders, from HBOR and HEP ESCO to other
ESCO partners, client businesses, nonprofit groups, and end-users.
Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS
2.12   Of the total project cost of US$39.8 million estimated at appraisal, the Bank loan
amounted to US$5.0 million and the GEF grant US$7.00 million. The balance was to be
provided by the Borrower (US$7.0 million) and local banks (US$20.8 million). Various
re-allocations were done during project implementation, notably from the Partial Credit
Guarantee (PCG) program into the Energy Savings Investments component, due to the
lower-than-expected demand for guarantee products. At closing, the total costs were
US$33.33 million (84 percent of the appraised estimate), with the Bank disbursing
US$5.84 million and GEF US$6.89 million.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
2.13   The project was approved on March 21, 2003, and became effective as scheduled
on April 8, 2004. The project closed without any extensions on June 30, 2010.
2.14   Apart from the project being assessed here, Croatia also received support for its
energy efficiency efforts from a UNDP and GEF-funded "Removing Barriers to Energy
Efficiency Project" (2004-2011)13 with similar project development objectives. UNDP,
" The objective of the UNDP and GEF-funded "Removing Barriers to Energy Efficiency Project" (2004-
2011) was to "reduce Croatia's greenhouse gas emissions by supporting the implementation of
economically feasible energy efficiency technologies and measures in the residential and service sectors"


﻿10
having immediate and working relationships with local governments, disseminated
information and promoted the concept of ESCO and EPC projects, HEP ESCO utilized
energy audits developed within the UNDP/GEF project, and prepared detailed feasibility
studies for actual investment. Financial support for small and medium industries and
energy efficiency projects was also been forthcoming from multilateral international
financial institutions like the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
European Investment Bank and KfW14
2.15   Safeguards. This project was placed in Category FT (Financial Intermediary)
under the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies. This category applies
when the Bank provides funds to a financial intermediary (HEP ESCO in this case) for
on-lending to final borrowers at the intermediary's risk. As required for this category, the
borrower prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework that was used
to screen each subproject in terms of potential environmental and social impacts. The
framework document was disclosed publicly as required. HEP ESCO was responsible
for screening sub-projects and ensuring that they complied with the Bank's safeguard
policies and appropriate Croatian environmental law. The strong technical know-how of
HEP ESCO and HBOR staff and their sound reporting systems ensured compliance with
the Environment and Social Management Framework. The staff team at HEP ESCO
included an environmental specialist. The project team confirmed that the project was in
compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies.
2.16   Financial Management. The financial management systems and procedures
established by HEP ESCO and HBOR were well-implemented during the project.
Financial reports and external audits were submitted on time. There were no
procurement concerns during project implementation. The project team confirms that
there were no qualified audits.
2.17   The project was in compliance with the two applicable financial covenants. The
first related to HBOR maintaining a loss rate on non-performing loans of participating
Banks not exceeding 5 percent of the outstanding guarantee liability commitment; and the
second related to HEP ESCO maintaining a loss rate on beneficiaries' defaults supported
by the Partial Risk Guarantee not exceeding 5 percent of the outstanding HEP ESCO
receivables. In both cases the loss rate was 0 percent.
2.18 Implementation of M&E. The M&E effort might have been more focused and
productive if fewer indicators had been prioritized. In principle, all the indicators were
measurable, but considerable effort was needed to collect and update information on all
these indicators.  An international consultant was contracted as the project's monitoring
consultant in November 2006. During their four-year M&E contract, the consultant
encountered several obstacles in finding a suitable methodology to measure some
and project immediate objectives were to overcome general institutional barriers to the promotion of energy
efficiency, including the residential and service sectors. The project had a total budget of US$13.05 million
including a GEF cash contribution of US$4.39 million and private contributions of US$7.99 million. The
major portion of the GEF contribution supported a Partial Guarantee Facility and a Project Development
Facility.
14 Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau


﻿11
indicators based on the available information. Values for all indicators were provided at
project completion, but the usefulness was limited for some of them due to lack of
benchmark values. However, this data will form a useful baseline for future monitoring.
Achievement of the Objectives
2.19  This report assesses the project development objective "to increase the demand
for and supply of energy efficiency projects and services in the Republic of Croatia", and
the global environmental objective "to overcome three barriers to energy efficiency
market development and financing: (i) lack of capacity and know-how; (ii) lack of
development and project financing; and (ii) lack of consumer demand."
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: To INCREASE THE DEMAND FOR AND SUPPLY OF
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS AND SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA. Rated
Substantial.
2.20  Outputs: Under this project, HEP created the first ESCO (HEP ESCO) in Croatia;
the energy performance contracting mechanism was rolled out to several market
segments; regulatory barriers were identified; and there was an increase in awareness of
energy efficiency issues and the ESCO mechanism among the government, industry,
services, banks, and the public at large.
2.21   At the commencement of the project (2003), awareness of energy efficiency
issues was still low in Croatia. Initially, HEP ESCO focused on implementing projects
under Energy Services Performance Contracts in public lighting and schools as they had
direct access to these clients as a utility-owned subsidiary. After some years, HEP ESCO
started to diversify its business activities to various market segments of public lighting,
schools, hospitals, cogeneration, industry and commercial buildings. HEP ESCO's
marketing efforts to disseminate knowledge of energy efficiency issues and the ESCO
model, coupled with its good performance track record during project implementation,
are expected to have contributed to an overall growth in demand for energy efficiency
services over the project implementation period. HEP ESCO was able to demonstrate the
commercial and financial viability of energy efficiency investments and the ESCO
contracting approach. However, for several reasons, including the effect of the global
financial crisis that began in 2007 and insufficient interest from private financing sources,
HEP ESCO's momentum slowed somewhat as discussed in terms of project outcomes
below.
2.22  Outcomes: In terms of specific outcome indicators tracked by the project, the
achievements are as follows:
* Coverage of various market segments: During the project period, HEP ESCO
became active in seven out of nine marketing segments that it planned to cover,
namely schools, hospitals, offices, public lighting, industry, cogeneration, and
commercial buildings. This can largely be ascribed to HEP ESCO's promotional
efforts and technical support; leveraging the Partial Credit Guarantee facility for
additional finance for clients; and public financing for energy efficiency projects


﻿12
that was made available through the EPEEF.15 Two other segments, multiple
residential buildings and District Heating and distribution systems that were also
targeted could not be covered.
* Number and volume of commercially viable energy efficiency projects: During
the project period, HEP ESCO implemented 31 commercial energy efficiency
projects on a for-profit basis, with a total cumulative value of US$29.5 million,
which slightly exceeded the energy efficiency investments estimated at appraisal.
Compared to the number of applications received, the share of projects reaching
financial closure increased from 10 percent at HEP ESCO's inception to about 22
percent by project completion, which was less than the target of 50 percent. This
under-performance may have been at least partly due to the impact of the
financial crisis that began 2008. HEP ESCO reported that only 2 projects out of
31 were terminated compared to the ceiling of three set at appraisal. The
stoppages were due to changes in management and changes in regulations for
public procurement following the enactment of the Budget Law in 2010. This
mission was informed that the projects undertaken by HEP ESCO during the
project implementation period continue to yield expected benefits. Field visits
were taken to selected projects - schools, buildings, public lighting in cities, and
an industrial application for fuel efficiency - which confirmed the benefits and
value-added for the clients. (Table 1).
Table 1: Site Visits to Beneficiaries under the Energy Efficiency Project
Beneficiary    Energy Efficiency Measures and Results  Cost and Payback period  Beneficiary feedback
based on ESCO model
Milivoj Medven This project provided for the use of waste heat Project cost: HRK 315,000  HEP ESCO project
Slaughterhouse from the cold-storage plant, which is  (US$55,000)             formulation, technical support
transferred to sanitary hot water in  Payback period:          and finance were very useful.
accumulator tanks. The system was also  4 years                Unlikely to have been funded
expanded with solar collector panels. This                     by a Bank.
project reduced fuel oil used to heat about
9,500 cubic meters of sanitary water by
86,600 liters/year. The resulting savings are
expected to amount to 73,890 liters/year or 85
percent of the previous consumption. The
reduced consumption of fuel oil resulted in a
reduction in greenhouse gas emission of 192
tons/year.
Novigrad City  Novigrad has a population of around 4,000.  Project cost: HRK 2.5 million First town that used funds
Two-thirds of public lighting in the city was  (US$430,000)    from HEP ESCO Feasibility
covered by a project, for replacement with  Novigrad provided 2/3rd and  study and technical assistance
energy efficient lighting.            HEP ESCO provided 1/3rd of from HEP ESCO was very
project cost.            useful. Novigrad won an
Payback period: 9 years 11  award for reducing light
months                   pollution from the
"International Dark-Sky
Association"
(www.darksky.org)
Rovinj city    Rovinj has a population of around 14,000.  Savings from reduced  HEP ESCO was helpful in
30-40 percent of the town's lighting was  electricity consumption: HRK analyzing lighting from
1 Moreover, the UNDP project undertook important energy efficiency dissemination and awareness
campaigns.


﻿13
replaced with energy efficiency lighting.  130,000 HRK (US$22,500)  energy efficiency point of
per month                view.
Solin City     Solin has a population of around 20,000. 50 Savings from reduced  HEP ESCO's assistance in
percent of the town's public lighting was  electricity consumption: HRK analyzing lighting
replaced with energy-efficient lamps and  30,000 per month (US$5,200) requirements and project
about 30 percent were fitted with user-  amounting to 26 percent of  preparation is acknowledged.
regulated lamps to help reduce light pollution. original cost. Reduced
carbon emissions of 120
tons/year.
Dugo Resa High The school switched from District Heating to Project cost: HRK 1.5 million Very satisfied with HEP
School         oil-based heating, and renovated doors and  (US$260,000)       ESCO's technical and
renovated doors and windows to reduce  Reduced expenditure from  financial support.
energy loss from the building. In the near  HRK 900,000 (US$155,000)
future, the school intends to use renewable  to HRK 400,000
energy resource - boiler rooms using biomass; (US$690,000) per Payback
solar cells; solar collectors.        period: 3 years
Dugo Resa      This school installed energy saving lighting  Savings: 47 percent oil for  HEP ESCO's helpful role in
Elementary     systems and decreased energy loss from its  heating; 23 percent of  design, public tendering, and
School         building through replacing the fagade.  electrical energy.     supervision during
construction stage.
Elementary     The school renovated its boiler room.  Project cost: HRK 120,000  HEP ESCO's initiative and
School,                                              approx (US$21,000) for the  assistance is acknowledged
Krapinsko                                            boiler.
Elementary     A new gas-based heating system was installed                   HEP ESCO's initiative and
School, Trnovec which allowed the heated area to be expanded                  assistance is acknowledged
by 2,500 sq m. with same level of expenditure
on fuel as before.
*   ESCO customer satisfaction: Based on a survey at project completion, HEP
ESCO's customer satisfaction of 90 percent was close to the 95 percent target
value. The survey consisted of (i) in-depth interviews of technical and
professional staff as well as end-beneficiaries for 10 representative projects
selected by HEP ESCO; and (ii) a telephone survey of all projects implemented
by HEP ESCO. The categories covered city officials, heads of departments for
cities' communal services, production managers and company directors as well as
representatives from end-beneficiaries such as headmasters of schools and high
schools, hospital directors, etc. A cross-section of officials/representatives of
schools, industry, and city management informed this mission that their
institutions and users continue to experience the benefits from energy efficiency
improvements in terms of lower energy consumption, greater comfort in
buildings, and improved and cheaper lighting solutions from HEP ESCO projects.
(Table 1). All the respondents expressed satisfaction with the project
formulation, technical support and financial assistance organized by HEP ESCO.
School staff and county officials give credit to HEP ESCO officials and
consultants for raising awareness of energy efficiency issues, which are now
being mainstreamed into the school curriculum, and are receiving positive
feedback from students and their parents. However, these results need to be
interpreted with caution since customer satisfaction can be a subjective indicator
and the results can be mixed with other aspects than direct savings due to
improved energy efficiency.
* Expanding opportunities for private ESCO firms and energy efficiency service
providers: HEP ESCO was also able to contribute to the development of business


﻿14
opportunities for private firms. The project created a significant demonstration
effect for other service providers to participate in the new energy efficiency
market, including engineering firms, distributors, manufacturers, and installers. In
June 2010, six months before project closing, 22 engineering consultancy firms
and academic research institutions provided energy efficiency services, and more
than one hundred small companies were sub-suppliers. A market survey at project
completion indicated that there were a large number of organizations that
provided energy efficiency services in specific market segments, of which
approximately 11 worked on a commercial basis.
* Number of local banks engaged in energy efficiency lending: At project
completion, three banks had signed Grant Framework Agreements (GFAs) with
HBOR and were providing financing for energy efficiency; two other banks had
begun to offer specific energy efficiency loans at that time. Feedback from
officials indicated that there is currently little or no financing activity on the part
of private banks for energy efficiency projects on the ESCO model. In addition
to the general impact of the financial crisis, the main reason is that while banks
are willing to lend on the basis of guarantees and collateral, they are yet to get
into the mode of providing project finance.16
2.23   As of end-2012, HEP ESCO remains the only operational ESCO in the country.
Towards the end of the project, the impact of the financial crisis limited the interest of
many public and private sector organizations, having a direct impact on the activities of
HEP ESCO. Also, a political crisis related to widespread corruption arose in 2010,
leading the public sector to avoid signing sole-source agreements with HEP ESCO as had
been the case since its creation. A Ministry of Finance regulation prevents public sector
entities from considering the financing obtained through HEP ESCO for the
implementation of energy efficiency projects as non-budget operations. Therefore, energy
efficiency projects had to compete with any other investments in the public sector, which
makes them less attractive.
2.24   Overall, the initial expectation of developing a competitive ESCO market has not
materialized. Feedback to this mission from various respondents in the government and
industry indicating that there are new companies that are attempting to enter the market
and there are many energy efficiency provider companies that do not offer guarantees.
2.25   On the positive side, the mission noted the renewed interest and activity driven by
Croatia's imminent membership of EU and therefore the imperative to meet EU
directives and goals for energy efficiency. The Ministry of Construction and Physical
Planning (MoC) has initiated a large-scale plan for the refurbishment of public buildings.
MoC officials indicated that this program has already stimulated the creation of about 20
16 Project finance is the long-term financing of infrastructure and industrial projects based upon the
projected cash flows of the project rather than the balance sheets of its sponsors.
17 A Budapest, Hungary-based ESCO was active during the project period. Saphire Sustainable
Development Ltd. (formerly known as EETEK Holding Plc), which along with its subsidiaries, identifies,
develops, implements, and operates clean energy projects in several countries in Eastern Europe has been
active in Croatia.


﻿15
ESCOs in end-2012 (also see 'risk to development outcome'). HEP officials informed
this mission of their renewed support for HEP ESCO to ramp up its promotional and
technical support role for energy efficiency projects, and work with EPEEF as a source of
finance and technical advice for energy efficiency activities. The approval of the New
Energy Law in end-2012 and several secondary/subsidiary legislation, which mainly
respond to EU directives have created an improved legal and regulatory framework for
energy efficiency activities.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE: TO OVERCOME THREE BARRIERS TO ENERGY
EFFICIENCY MARKET DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCING: (I) LACK OF CAPACITY AND KNOW-
HOW; (II) LACK OF DEVELOPMENT AND PROJECT FINANCING; AND (II) LACK OF CONSUMER
DEMAND. Rated Modest.
Outputs
2.26  Capacity and Know-how: Over the project period, HEP ESCO gained experience
in planning and implementing energy efficiency contracts on the ESCO model, and is
considered technically self-sufficient, being staffed by several professional staff with an
associate degree or higher18. While building its own capacity, HEP ESCO also was
instrumental in transferring skills and know-how by establishing business relationships
with other major stakeholders such as engineering firms, distributors, manufacturers and
installers. The project led to the development of 22 engineering/consultancy firms and
academic research institutions as additional energy efficiency service providers.
2.27  HEP ESCO procured all its supplies (goods, work and installation) from domestic
firms in the national currency, indicating that there was a robust distribution network of
energy efficiency products. In addition, over 100 small companies were involved as sub-
suppliers.
2.28  HEP ESCO's dissemination and project support were supplemented by regional
energy agencies created by EPEEF. UNDP's concurrent energy efficiency project had
established internal positions of trained energy officers at local authorities and central
government bodies who demonstrated capacity for preparing energy efficiency projects
for financing. Clients and officials from municipalities and country governments
indicated to the IEG mission that dissemination and project supports should be provided
on a continuing basis. HEP ESCO officials confirmed that this is an important part of
their renewed mandate as approved by the parent HEP.
2.29 Development and project financing: The project had limited success with respect
to the critical objective of overcoming barriers to energy efficiency financing. In the
Croatian context, most banks do not really practice project finance and give much
stronger weight to the balance sheets and collateral of borrowers. The project was not
able to overcome the rigid collateral requirements imposed by local financiers. Banks are
still not into project financing and have not warmed to the ESCO model. Commercial
banks were lukewarm about providing longer-term financing for energy efficiency
projects given the high transaction costs, small project size and poor creditworthiness of
1 http://www.hep.hr/esco/en/aboutus/Employees.aspx


﻿16
municipal borrowers. The Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG) - which was intended to
mitigate risks given the newness of energy efficiency concepts and market mechanisms in
Croatia, failed to address the banks' concerns for energy end-user credit risks. The PCG
facility did not attract increased interest from both borrowers and commercial banks, and
was not effective in reducing the banks' risk aversion to energy efficiency financing. Over
the course of the project, the credit enhancement facility was reallocated to the PCG
program. Subsequently, after demand for PCGs also proved lower than expected (only
two guarantees were signed for US$0.9 million), the remaining grant funds were
reallocated to HEP ESCO for use in projects.
2.30   Consumer Demand: While the project has helped to raise awareness and
application of the ESCO model across Croatia in different sectors, potential consumer
demand is not being realized due to continuing lack of awareness, capacity and
knowhow; and lack of development & project financing. Feedback from respondents also
suggests that consumer demand for ESCO services may be inhibited by some widely
observed perceptions, for instance - energy efficiency interventions result in only small
savings of energy; costs savings are small compared to overall operational costs; and that
energy efficiency investments are non-core activities that take too much time. Despite
the project's efforts to disseminate information, a large section of prospective
beneficiaries still need to be exposed to knowledge about the ESCO model and the
potential benefits. Similar to many other countries, public procurement remains
complicated for ESCO applications. The mission was informed that HEP ESCO's efforts
to work with the private sector have been inhibited by the rigidities of public procurement
procedures. Also, the ESCO model was not recognized by the authorities as an
individual business model. As a result, Croatian ESCOs could not invoice their services
as a package and VAT (value-added tax) had be paid for the equipment installed for the
client upfront, thereby affecting profits.
Outcomes
2.31   GHG emissions reductions from the project's activities were only 30 percent of
appraisal targets. The lower GHG emission reductions are explained by the lower share
of realized energy savings than the levels estimated during appraisal. HEP ESCO
supported projects were predominantly in the street lighting and public buildings sector,
i.e., projects characterized by high-cost measures (including some reconstruction works
given the poor state of some facilities). As a result, the average payback time was close to
8 years, compared 4 to 5 years that was expected based on the mix of projects forecast at
appraisal. Finally, the weak demand for the Partial Credit Guarantee facility also
translated into lower energy savings and environmental benefits.
Efficiency
2.32   The efficiency of the project in meeting its objectives is rated Modest. The
project's ERR at closing was re-estimated at around 10 percent, which is 8 percent lower
than the appraisal estimate, and also lower than the estimated opportunity cost of capital
of 12 percent. With respect to the GEF incremental cost analysis, the project's global
benefits would be at a cost of US$21.9 per ton of C02, which is almost triple the
appraisal estimate of US$7.3 per ton of CO2. However, this cost figure actually achieved


﻿17
at closing would still be reasonable compared to the estimated medium-term price of
US$25 per ton of CO2 in the European Trading Scheme.
2.33  Until project completion, HEP ESCO continued to improve its operational and
financial performance demonstrating commercially and financially viable energy
efficiency investments, modeling its ESCO contracting approach. In addition, HEP
ESCO's profit margin increased steadily between 2006 and 2008, when it reached US$
0.3 million (50 percent of the target).
Ratings
OUTCOME
2.34 Overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The relevance of the
project's objectives to the country's declared priorities and the Bank's country assistance
strategy was and remains high. The relevance of the project's design, with its
comprehensive approach of complementing the Bank's catalytic financing with GEF's
grant financing for risk mitigation and capacity-building, was substantial. The project's
major contributions were in introducing the concept and practice of energy efficiency
where it was little understood or employed before, and creating HEP ESCO which was
instrumental in initiating a market for energy efficiency, and disseminating the ESCO
model over several sectors. However, the momentum could not be maintained for
developing and implementing a steady pipeline of ESCO projects. On balance, the
achievement of the Project Development Objective is rated substantial. GHG emissions
from successful ESCO projects were far lower than targeted and limited success was
achieved in overcoming barriers to expanding capacity and know-how for ESCO
development; project finance; and consumer demand. Achievement of the Global
Environment objective is rated modest. With an economic rate of return that was lower
than the appraisal estimate and the estimated opportunity cost of capital, and costs per ton
of CO2 removed that are triple that of appraisal estimates, efficiency is modest. Overall
outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.
RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
2.35  The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Negligible to Low. The project's achievements in raising the profile of energy efficiency
in Croatia, introducing the ESCO concept and demonstrating its effectiveness through
specific interventions in several sectors are likely to be sustained. This is underlined by
the feedback provided to this mission by officials at different levels in the government,
and by the field visits and discussions with beneficiaries. The decrease in momentum
experienced after the financial crisis, and during political change, has now been replaced
with a tangible commitment to energy efficiency by the government and HEP. Much of
this renewed commitment is driven by the obligations and financial incentives linked to
the imminent accession to the EU.
2.36  Over the past few years almost all European Directives involving energy
efficiency have been transposed into Croatian legislation. That includes mandatory
energy certification of buildings and energy audits of structures, technical requirements


﻿18
for building materials concerning thermal protection, mandatory energy labeling of
household appliances and products linked with energy. Banks are offering lower interest
rates when investing in energy efficient equipment. According to the Energy Service
Directive, monitoring and verification - a crucial feedback requirement in implementing
energy efficiency schemes - is emphasized to be a bottom-up process. Croatia will
receive assistance from GIZ19 (German Society for International Cooperation) promoting
and standardizing monitoring & verification procedures.
2.37   The Second National Energy Efficiency Action Plan was drafted in 2011 and
acceptance is expected by mid-2013. Some of the proposed energy efficiency measures
are already being implemented. The most ambitious program is the Refurbishment
Program of Public Buildings for the period commencing in 2012-2013, under which
10,000 buildings are being taken up for improving their energy efficiency. There is strong
political incentive for this program because of the potential for job creation for
construction companies and others.20 The program is centered in the newly formed
Center for Monitoring Business Activities in the Energy Sector and Investments (CEI).
For this program, MoC has simplified tendering procedures. UNDP has carried out
energy audits for 1,800 buildings that feed into the refurbishment effort. At the same
time, MoC is planning to promote energy renovations in other sectors as well, including
residential and commercial buildings. MoC officials told this mission that this initiative
has stimulated the creation of about 20 ESCOs in end-2012.
2.38   Much work still needs to be done in reducing several barriers to energy efficiency
that was initially addressed by the project. While energy efficiency issues are understood
more widely than at the beginning of the project, much more needs to be done in
educating government officials, and prospective beneficiaries in the industry, services
and residential sectors. Private finance continues to be scarce for energy efficiency
investments on the ESCO model. The mission was informed that there is little or no
interest in the Banks for such lending at present The period for obtaining required
permits/approvals is too long and acts as a disincentive to potential domestic and foreign
project developers to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. In the
residential sector there still exist key barriers apart from access to finance that prevent
practically any building level investment in existing multi-apartment buildings such as a
100 percent quorum required for any building level investment decision, including energy
efficiency.21
2.39   HEP remains committed to providing HEP ESCO with the necessary financial,
management and human resources to meet its business plan goals. HEP and HEP ESCO
officials told the mission that HEP ESCO plans to establish information centers of energy
efficiency that will be located in the 20 county centers and are expected to be functional
by early-2013. Through these centers, HEP staff will provide free advisory and
19 Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Society for International Cooperation)
20 "The implementation of energy efficiency projects will have a direct impact on Croatia's economic
development, by stimulating construction and industry, which will ultimately lead to increased
employment,: Ana Pavii6 Kaselj, Assistant Minister for Energy, January 17. 2012. http://www.undp.hr
21 However, new private buildings are taking up energy efficiency on their own, especially those promoted
by large real estate developers.


﻿19
educational services to households and organizations on opportunities for saving
electrical and heat energy and how soon investments for these purposes can be recovered
through savings. Lack of experience and expertise in preparation of energy
efficiency/renewable energy projects is to be addressed by seminars for project
developers, investors, engineers, architects and decision makers on a national/local level.
2.40   HEP ESCO plans intensive development of new projects through employing a
new complement of engineers, and helping install PV panels on houses and apartment
buildings, as well as all on HEP's building on a "turnkey" basis. HEP plans to install
photovoltaic power plants of 10 to 30 kW integrated in HEP's buildings amounting to
more than 400 kW of installed capacity to set an example to other building owners. HEP
ESCO will provide assistance with verification and smart metering. HEP ESCO official
told the mission that there is a lot of interest in these initiatives from prospective
beneficiaries, especially industry. Other planned initiatives relate to discounts on
purchase of energy-saving light bulbs.
BANK PERFORMANCE
2.41 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The World
Bank raised the issue of energy efficiency as early as its 1999 Country Assistance
Strategy, which pointed out the need to increase the demand for energy efficiency and
associated services; and to achieve financial sustainability and efficient operations for
public enterprises. Although risks were generally well defined and mitigation measures
seemed appropriate, the risks of joint coordination with UNDP for the PCG sub-
component were not adequately foreseen. This presented significant coordination
difficulties and delays in implementing the sub-component, which eventually did not
significantly address the critical barrier of lack of energy efficiency financing. The
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) indicators were also excessive as discussed under
"Monitoring & Evaluation" (paras 1.68-1.75). Otherwise, adequate attention was given
to the technical, financial, economic, institutional and environmental aspects of the
project. Procurement, financial management and safeguards aspects were also adequately
addressed. Design alternatives were considered, and the experience and lessons from
Eastern European and North American energy efficiency projects were taken into
account. The need to transfer management experience from a well-established ESCO was
also recognized and pursued through project assistance from a strategic partner to transfer
know-how at a senior level to HEP ESCO. This was important, given the project's
significant innovations and associated risks in Croatia's context.
2.42   The Bank's quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The bank conducted regular supervision mission, about twice a year. Aide
Memoires were clear in terms of the required follow-up actions, and Implementation
Status and Results Reports were candid in their assessment and realistic in their ratings.
However, the Bank was slow to adjust to the realities of the energy efficiency market in
Croatia. The Partial Credit Guarantee Facility sub-component was already rated
moderately unsatisfactory one year after effectiveness and remained so throughout
implementation. Funds from the failed sub-component were reallocated to the energy
savings component only one month before the project's Closing Date. The Bank could
also have attempted to update the M&E Framework during the Mid-term Review.


﻿20
2.43  Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
2.44   The government's performance is rated Satisfactory. The Government showed
strong ownership and commitment to the project's objectives, notably by establishing the
necessary energy efficiency policy as well as the necessary legal and regulatory
environment. The Energy Sector Development Strategy marked energy efficiency as a
cornerstone; and the Electricity Market Act included obligations for electricity suppliers
to support energy efficiency measures. The Energy Efficiency Law and secondary
legislation, including the Energy Efficiency Action Plan defined the ESCO business
model and its market role. The EPEEF was set up to finance energy efficiency programs.
2.45  Various officials reiterated to this mission that energy efficiency is a high priority
in general for Croatia. Other respondents suggested that the focus on energy efficiency
issues had diminished somewhat since project completion mainly due to the cumulative
impact of the financial crisis, political events and change of government in the country.
However, more recent developments (2012) underline the government's commitment to
energy efficiency especially in anticipation of accession to EU in July 2013. The
developments include the New Energy Law and several secondary legislations included
energy audits, Measurement & Verification (M&V) of Performance, and IT systems for
monitoring energy savings and energy performance contracting in the public sector.
2.46 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Satisfactory.
HEP ESCO staff proved to be highly dedicated to the development of the ESCO concept
and the establishment of a financially viable business model for ESCO operations as at
project completion. HEP ESCO management made appropriate decisions on staffing
requirements for the newly founded HEP subsidiary, and in hiring young and motivated
staff. At project completion, and based on a comprehensive beneficiary survey, the
overall level of satisfaction of HEP ESCO clients was high (90 percent on average), and
they indicated that they would definitely (45.5 percent) or probably (36.4 percent)
recommend HEP ESCO to a colleague or associate. HEP ESCO was awarded the
prestigious European Energy Service Award in 2008, which honors achievements for the
successful development of energy services in Europe. There were requests from Bosnia
& Herzegovina and Slovenia to learn from HEP ESCO's experience. There were no
safeguards, procurement, or fiduciary compliance issues outstanding at project
completion. HEP ESCO received financial and human resource support from the parent
HEP. Their relationship was cooperative, but work processes between the two were
slow.
2.47  HEP ESCO's activities slowed down gradually with the onset of the financial
crisis in 2007 and due to government actions impacting the public sector following the
general political crisis related to widespread corruption that erupted in 2010. More recent
legislative actions by the government, and other steps take in anticipation of accession to
EU are likely to have a positive impact on HEP ESCO's activities.
2.48  The project revealed a number of benefits and costs of using an ESCO as a
subsidiary of a utility. On the positive side, HEP ESCO benefitted from HEP's brand,


﻿21
access to its customer base and the ability to raise loans on the strengths of HEP's
corporate guarantee. The downsides were the need to apply HEP's human resources and
compensation policies which were not well suited to a rapidly growing services company
(e.g., the imposition of a hiring freeze). It is also not clear whether HEP ESCO may have
discouraged the growth of other ESCOs given HEP ESCO's apparently preferential
position.
2.49  Overall, Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.50  M&E Utilization. As discussed under M&E design and Implementation, the list
of output and outcome indicators was long, and a significant amount of data collection
effort was needed to do justice to all of them. It is recognized that the purpose of having
several indicators was to monitor early signs of market transformation and identify any
corrective actions. In view of the lack of baseline information and clarity in some
indicators, the M&E results provided a general assessment of project performance, but
were not very useful as a tool for decision-making at the operational level.
2.51  Overall, M&E is rated modest.
3. Renewable Energy Resources Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES
3.1    The project development objective as stated identically in the Project Appraisal
Document and the GEF Trust Fund agreement was "to assist in developing an
economically and environmentally sustainable market for renewable energy (RE) in
Croatia." Additionally, the Project Appraisal Document states the Global Environment
Objective as "to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a continuous basis by overcoming
barriers to implementation of renewable energy."
RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES
3.2   Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The project's
objectives were, and still are, highly relevant to the development of Croatia's energy
sector. The Government's Energy Sector Development Strategy prepared in 2001 called
for post-war recovery and transition towards energy security through, among other
measures, the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy resources
development. The Energy Law of July 2001 provided for the development of renewable
energy resources and for a minimum share of renewable energy in the total energy
supply. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2005-09 recognized the need for
meeting international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. The current FY2009-12 Country Partnership Strategy focuses on assisting
Croatia in joining the EU, within which renewable energy development is a priority to


﻿22
reduce the vulnerability of the economy to oil price shocks, increase the sustainability of
long-term development, and help to mitigate climate change.
DESIGN
3.3    The project had the following components:
*  Component 1: Market Framework (estimated cost at appraisal: US$2.00 million;
cost at completion: US$2.10 million). This component provided technical
assistance to support the Government in designing and implementing the
necessary policies and secondary legislation to increase the share of renewable
energy in the country's electricity supplies. The technical assistance consisted
mainly of legal and technical support, as well as capacity-building and advice to
the government agencies and other entities involved in creating the regulatory
framework for renewable energy, implementing the new system, and streamlining
the permitting process.
*  Component 2: Project Preparation (estimated cost at appraisal: US$6.50 million;
cost at completion: US$4.88 million). This component provided contingent loans,
as well as grants for initial project development costs and investment support. The
Contingent Loan Facility (CLF) was established to provide loans to qualified
project developers on a cost-sharing basis. The contingent loans would either be
capitalized in the project financing, or converted into a grant if the project did not
proceed to implementation. The grants were used to identify candidate projects
for renewable energy investments and cover initial development costs, such as
feasibility studies.
3.4    Monitoring & Evaluation Design. The global environment objective indicators
were not clearly specified in the Project Appraisal Document. However, two appropriate
global environment objective indicators were tracked at project completion: CO2
emissions reductions and the share of renewable energy in the national energy supply.
The "introduction of a new energy law" was an indicator at completion. Such a law had
already been approved in July 2001, and the reference here, as clarified in the project's
implementation completion report, is to secondary legislation including feed-in tariffs for
renewable energy development that would need to be put in place.
3.5    Other appropriate global environment objective intermediate outcome indicators
could have been "introduction of secondary legislation especially feed-in tariffs, market
conditioning based on incentives, and the preparation of a project pipeline. Collectively,
these global environment objective indicators would have been useful in developing a
strategy for scaling-up renewable energy, fine-tuning policy to address remaining
barriers, prioritizing the necessary investments to mobilize financial resources and
achieve the GHG reduction goals.
3.6   Implementation Arrangements. HBOR, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction
and Development was the implementing agency for the project while the Bank's direct
counterpart was the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (MoELE). To
facilitate the creation of a project pipeline, a Renewable Energy Advisory Facility


﻿23
(REAF) was created under MoELE to provide information and know-how to project
developers and equipment suppliers.
3.7   Other agencies and ministries involved were: EPEEF as a source of funding and
project technical review inputs; the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (HERA) in
respect of feed-in tariffs; HEP, the Croatia's Electricity Utility, which is also the
transmission and distribution system operator; MoELE; the Ministry of Construction and
Physical Planning (MoC); the banking community; private developers; and NGOs.
RELEVANCE OF DESIGN
3.8   Relevance ofproject design is rated Substantial. The elements of the results
framework are clearly laid out. The project design included appropriate elements for
reducing barriers to promoting renewable energy in the long term, as a means to reduce
GHG emissions. The results framework provided for strengthening capacity, adopting
enabling legislation, building suitable market conditions, preparing a pipeline of projects,
and stimulating investment finance for renewable energy development. The interaction
between these inputs could have been set out more clearly. For instance, the adoption of
relevant legislation and a system of market incentives can set the stage for facilitating a
pipeline of projects to develop and attract potential entrepreneurs and investors. The
project could have spelt out more clearly, the interaction between inputs, and onwards to
outputs and outcomes. Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS
3.9    The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$8.5 million. The Global
Environmental Facility provided US$890,000 of grants for Component I. For
Component II it financed US$2.0 million to establish the Contingent Loan Facility and
provided grants of US$1.5 million to be used for project development and project
investment support, for a total of US$3.5 million. The rest of the project cost was
provided by the government. It was anticipated that the Environmental Protection and
Energy Efficiency Fund (EPEEF) and the final private borrowers would also provide
funds, but only one deal reached financial closure. Thus, at project closing, the total
actual costs amounted to US$7.33 million (about 86 percent of the planned cost), of
which the Global Environmental Facility financed US$4.39 million, and the government
provided US$2.94 million. Component I also included support for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), information dissemination, and monitoring and evaluation,
which was later cancelled. On October 5, 2010, an undisbursed amount of about
US$1.46 million was cancelled from the Grant.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.10  The project was approved on June 23, 2005, and became effective as scheduled
on November 23, 2005. On March 30, 2010, the project closing date was extended by
two months, from April 1, 2010 to May 31, 2010, to allow the signing of six contracts
that were pending approval under the Contingent Loan Facility.
3.11  Safeguards. The project was classified as a Category "C" and no environmental
assessment was required. The Project Implementation Plan specified the procedures for


﻿24
environmental compliance of Contingent Loan Facility projects, which were followed in
preparing the environmental impact studies for those projects. The project team confirms
that the project was in compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies.
3.12  Financial Management. The Financial Management rating was satisfactory for
five out of six Implementation Status and Results Reports prepared by the Bank as part of
its project supervision process. The rating was Moderately Satisfactory once, in May
2009, when the financial management reports failed to include Government
contributions. However, this was resolved in the first quarter of 2010, when Government
contributions were included in the financial management reports and the rating was
upgraded back to satisfactory. The project team confirmed that there were no qualified
audits.
3.13  M&E Implementation. The M&E sub-component of the project provided
US$350,000 of GEF funds for information dissemination, but this was not implemented,
with the project implementation unit choosing to carry out this task on its own without
any outside consultant support. However, the cancellation of this M&E sub-component
meant that potentially useful information that may have provided the basis for adjusting
incentives and creating new market opportunities may have been missed.
Achievement of the Objectives
3.14  Only the global environment objective is assessed for this project, given that the
assistance for this project came from the GEF alone and there were no IBRD/IDA funds
involved.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVE: To REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ON A
CONTINUOUS BASIS BY OVERCOMING BARRIERS TO IMPLEMENTATION OF RENEWABLE
ENERGY. Rated Modest.
3.15  Outputs. Between project completion in mid-2010 and end 2012, there has been
little progress in the renewable energy project pipeline, apart from the Koncar wind
power unit and the Udbina biomass cogeneration unit mentioned in para 2.17 below. One
more wind power facility of 20MW has reached financial closure while another of
55MW capacity has obtained its location permit. Two biogas and one biomass
cogeneration project have obtained location and construction permits. Four other biogas
and three biomass cogeneration projects were still at an early phase of the project cycle.
(Table 2). The progress that has been achieved so far, though significantly short of
targets, was enabled by several institutional and policy initiatives under the project as
discussed below.


﻿25
Table 2:Renewable Energy Projects Availing Contingency Loan Fund:
Status as of November 2012
Plant   CLF* Loan       Planned    Investment Comments
Capacity Amount (US$)   Contribution (US$
(MW)                    of Investor  million)
(US$)
Biogas
1.7     150,000         156,373    8.84      Early phase of procedure
1.0     173,221         173,221    5.2       Early phase of procedure
1.0     149,340         149,340    5.2       Early phase of procedure
1.0     78,703          78,703     5.2       Early phase of procedure
1.0     150,000         258,972    5.20      Location permit obtained
1.0     157,685         157,685    5.2       Construction permit obtained
Biomass, cogeneration
4.0     161,522         161,522    20.8      Early phase of procedure
1.0     105,908         147,809    5.2       Early phase of procedure
1.0     105,908         107.100    5.2       Early phase of procedure
6.5     105,908         431,273    33.8      Location permit obtained
1.0     105,908         145,009    5.2       In operation
Wind
55.0   1150,000         277,619    93.5      Location permit obtained
20.0    127,267         185,810    36.3      Financial closure in process
23.0    150,000         316,547    39.1      Financial closure in process
16.0    128,627         135,606    27.2      1 MW unit in operation
134.2   2,000,000       2,566,048  US$301.1
3.16    An important achievement was the secondary legislation that included
technology-specific feed-in tariffs for renewable energy. Other actions related to
renewable energy grid integration; creation of a Renewable Energy Registry (RER) to
support pre-feasibility studies; provision of renewable energy information and practical
guidance to project developers; technical assistance to the grid and market operators; and
streamlined procedures for registration and processing of renewable energy project
applications. Capacity-building and financial advice was also provided to EPEEF,
commercial banks and municipal finance authorities.
3.17    By the end of 2011, the Contingent Loan Facility had leveraged a potential total
renewable energy investment value of US$150 million. This has increased around
US$300 million as of end-2012, which would be a significant achievement once it is fully
realized.
3.18    The establishment of the Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF) within
MoELE and continuous training of the staff led to creation of the renewable energy
registry (RER) and project pipeline, which contained more than 300 projects at
completion. The mission was provided an updated picture of the pipeline of projects as
of September 2012 in the renewable energy registry, as shown in Table 3 below. The
figures show an increased interest in renewable energy projects but relatively low
progress in most categories except for wind power where there is significantly more
activity.


﻿26
Table 3: Status of Renewable energy Projects in the Renewable Energy Registry
Category                 Number Registered       Number Implemented
Biomass plants           93 (234 MW)             3 (6.7 MW)
Biogas plants            62 (89 MW)              8 (8.6 MW)
Geothermal plant         1 (5 MW)                0
Small hydro power plants  64 (126 MW)            2 (30 kW)
Wind power plants        111 (4,690 MW)          9 (129.8 MW)
Solar plants             292 (83 MW)             68 (2.2 MW)
Total                    632 plants (>5.2 GW)    90 (177.3MW)
Source: Ministry of Economy
3.19   Many delays negatively affected the market conditioning and setting of incentive
frameworks. The secondary legislation with feed-in tariffs was almost two years late (i.e.,
it was passed by Parliament only in July 2007 compared to the end-2005 original target)
due to resistance from vested sector interests. This delay had the cascading negative
effects of: (i) delaying Component II for Project Preparation, hence the Contingent Loan
Facility became operational only in the latter part of 2007; (ii) the first few loans were
signed only almost a year later in the second half of 2008; and (iii) most of the other
contracts were signed only during the last two months of the project. Market uptake was
slowed down initially by a general lack of information about the Contingent Loan
Facility, complaints concerning the lending conditions, overly short implementation
periods allowed, and the extensive bureaucracy. Some technical assistance activities
could only be defined when gaps and barriers became more visible as measures to
support renewable energy were being implemented, but the foregoing delays means that
some of the enabling technical assistance was pushed out of sequence into the last year of
project implementation.
3.20   Outcomes. Reductions in CO2 emissions were the main outcome indicator
tracked at project completion, and the share of renewable energy in the country's
electricity production was an intermediate outcome indicator. The project has not yet
made any significant difference to GHG emissions reductions or the share of renewable
energy in Croatia's energy supply.
3.21   The appraisal target for CO2 emissions reductions was 54,417 tons of CO2
emissions/year, based on 5 projects reaching financial closure by the end of 2009, with a
total design capacity of 83 MW. At project completion (mid-2010), reductions of 17,710
tons of CO2 emissions/year were expected to materialize by the end of 2010 from a 23
MW wind power plant22 at Glunca that had reached financial closure in 2009. This plant
represented the only proposal to have reached financial closure out of 15 Contingent
Loan Facility loans that had been made at project completion.
3.22   An update (Table 2) provided to this mission as of November 2012 shows that the
Glunca plant is yet to be operational, and therefore its contribution to reducing CO2
22 A 23 MW wind power project at Glunca developed by Tudi Elektro Centar d.o.o. The projected electric
output of the installation is 50.6 GWh per year.


﻿27
emissions has not materialized. However, since project completion, a IMW unit of the
Koncar wind power facility - which is part of a planned larger 16MW facility - has
started production. Also, a IMW biomass co-generation plant at Udbina is now
operational. This mission carried out field visits to both these facilities and was briefed
on their operations by technical and managerial staff at the site. These two facilities are
the only sources of reduction of CO2 emissions attributable to this project so far. The
actual CO2 reductions resulting from 1 MW at Koncar and 1 MW at Udbina, - with the
Glunca facility not yet operational - are less than 3 percent of the appraisal targets of
emissions corresponding to 84 MW.
3.23   The project contributed to overcoming barriers to investments in renewable
energy through several policy actions and institutional initiatives. Overall, the project
helped develop a regulatory environment for renewable energy that is compliant with EU
requirements, and is expected to help support Croatia in its EU accession efforts.
Efficiency
3.24 Efficiency of the project is rated Modest. The Project Appraisal Document
provided the required GEF incremental cost analysis and a "cost-benefit analysis" by a
consulting firm. However, the Project Appraisal Document discussed mainly policy
questions such as the minimum share of renewable energy in total electricity production,
cost recovery principles, and regulatory issues. A range of rates of return based on
alternative investment scenarios across different renewable energy technologies was not
provided, although the annex did provide a cash flow model for the Contingent Loan
Facility and financial projections.
3.25   The ex ante calculations of Net Present Value and Internal Rates of Return for the
15 projects in the Contingent Loan Facility pipeline assumed low discount rates (between
4 percent and 7.5 percent for different projects), and may have been optimistic. All 15
projects were expected to be profitable, but this cannot be ascertained since 13 out of the
15 projects have yet to operational.
3.26   The project helped create a large pipeline of renewable energy and cogeneration
projects that have obtained a Preliminary Energy Approval. The cost-effectiveness of this
effort is reduced due to the uncertainty of financial closure despite resources spent on
preparing them. Although the expected amount of renewable energy investments could
potentially exceed US$300 million if all 15 projects with Contingent Loan Facility
support reach financial closure, this remains uncertain at this stage, with progress towards
closure being made in only two projects in the two years after project completion.
Ratings
OUTCOME
3.27   Overall global environmental outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Although the project objectives were highly relevant, the relevance of project design was
modest since it sought to implement simultaneously, within an unrealistic timetable, the


﻿28
several steps of enacting secondary legislation, institutional capacity strengthening;
promoting incentive frameworks and markets, project pipeline preparation, and
eventually investment financing of renewable energy projects. The achievement of the
global environment objective was modest. While the project contributed to overcoming
barriers to investments in renewable energy through several policy actions and
institutional initiatives, the realized reduction in CO2 emissions is less than 3 percent.
Efficiency was modest given the low level of environmental benefits accruing so far
relative to project costs. The achievement of the global environmental objective and the
sustainability of the Contingent Loan Facility's impact depend heavily on the extent to
which renewable energy project developers can secure financing for their projects. These
concerns persist two years after project completion due to the lingering effects of the
financial crisis,
RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
3.28   The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Moderate. Going forward, funds for the early preparation and development phases of
new renewable energy projects still remain a constraint. There is also a demand for
funds for the equity contribution. Private funds are available to some extent, mainly as
venture capital. HBOR is not in a position to provide non-recourse financing. EPEEF is
being considered as source for providing guarantees.
3.29   The Croatian government is placing a fresh emphasis on developing renewable
energy in keeping with the EU's 20-20-20 initiative. Also, renewable energy is seen as a
good source of new jobs. The target for renewable energy for 2020 is set at 1200MW
comprising 1020MW from wind power, 140MW from solar power, and 40MW from
biomass. Wind power appears most promising followed by biomass cogeneration and
biomass. The new Energy Law that was approved in late 2012 has among others, opened
up the market for investments in renewable energy, and the tariff regime for electricity
has been liberalized subject to the oversight of the energy market regulator.
3.30   The capacity-building resulting from the project's technical assistance has been
mainstreamed, given the absorptive capacity of well-qualified and experienced staff in
Croatia's relevant financial and technical institutions. Improvements in the enabling
environment resulting from the secondary legislation (particularly with respect to feed-in
tariffs) are likely to be irreversible. These findings are reinforced by feedback provided to
this mission from both the Bank and the borrower.
3.31   However, feedback to this mission from government officials and entrepreneurs
indicates several concerns in increasing the pace of renewable energy development. At
the broader level, spatial planning has to be carried out in a systematic manner.
Horizontal connections between ministries need to be strengthened as for example in the
case of biomass projects where various ministries including those for forestry and water
are involved. While rights to state-owned land are being handed out to the private sector
or for public-private partnerships, there are not enough mature project designs to be
offered to entrepreneurs. There is a need for developing administration capacity within
the ministry for monitoring investments - some respondents felt that a dedicated unit may
be needed for this. A strategy is required to meet the concerns of the numerous and


﻿29
vibrant non-government organizations in the country to avoid delays in implementation.
As the share of renewable energy rises, technical provision for its integration with the
grid needs to move in parallel. The mission was informed that HEP is taking this up as
part of its efforts to modernize existing production and transmission facilities, for which
finance has been raised through a major bond issue23
BANK PERFORMANCE
3.32 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
project preparation efforts adequately covered the technical, financial, procurement and
financial management aspects of the project. Design alternatives were considered, and
lessons from earlier operations were taken into account, although the Project Appraisal
Document focused mainly on citing cost-sharing grants as existing or having been tried
before, without really discussing whether they worked, and if not, what lessons have been
learned that were reflected in project design.
3.33   In retrospect, the design of the project's implementation timetable was too
ambitious in light of the weak capacities in the country's renewable energy sub-sector
when the project was conceptualized and appraised, leading to significant risk that the
renewable energy investments would not materialize. The legal and regulatory
environment was clearly inadequate at the time; hence it was not clear whether the
pipeline of renewable energy projects could be defined, since the enabling environment
had not yet been established in the first place. The Project Appraisal Document did
acknowledge and provide for this risk through including Component II for Project
Preparation, but the Bank under-estimated the time for these legal and regulatory barriers
to be overcome, resulting in a two-year delay in starting Component II of the project.
This apparent over-estimation of the government's ability to enact the necessary legal and
regulatory framework is surprising given that almost three years elapsed between the
Project Concept Review (May 2002) and Appraisal (February 2005).
3.34   Shortly after the GEF Grant effectiveness, it became clear that the timeframe for
implementation was ambitious. The operational aspects of a contract for the Contingent
Loan Facility that was signed in May 2006 between HBOR and EPEEF could not be
finalized until January 2007 due to unresolved issues regarding EPEEF's role. This was
yet another unfortunate delay since the GEF Project Document and the Project
Implementation Plan had assigned EPEEF an important upstream role for the technical
appraisals of Contingent Loan Facility projects and as a co-financier.
3.35   The Bank's quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Bank
maintained a consistent dialogue with the government, focusing on the pace of
implementation and the need for corrective actions. However, in the face of the delay in
passing the secondary legislation, the Bank was slow in adjusting the project to a new
timetable, which should have been done in mid-2007 rather than a mere 2 months before
the closing date of May 31, 2010. In retrospect, the midterm review should have also
been carried out around mid-2007, rather than in December 2008. With the Bank's own
23 HEP successfully floated a US$500 million (Euro 386 million) Eurobond n November 2012
(www.powermaket.seenews.com)


﻿30
delays, it was no longer credible to try to restructure the project in March 2010 when a
restructuring was done to extend the project's closing date by 2 months, especially since
only 1 out of 15 Contingent Loan Facility projects reached financial closure by that time.
3.36  Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
3.37  Government's performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
Government demonstrated its support for the project by requiring MoELE to establish a
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Department under its Directorate of Energy.
The Government also created the Renewable Energy Advisory Facility (REAF) to
promote renewable energy projects along with the Environmental Protection and Energy
Efficiency Fund (EPEEF). These agencies successfully introduced a new renewable
energy legislative and regulatory framework as well as the Contingent Loan Facility as a
dedicated funding facility for project preparation. However, the passing of the secondary
legislation was significantly delayed by about 2 years. Moreover, although the key
agencies and funding/advisory facilities were created, the government allocated
inadequate staff and budgetary resources, thus creating work overload and long backlogs.
Consequently, several important technical assistance activities, including studies on feed-
in tariff levels and the setting of a realistic renewable energy share in the energy balance,
were delayed and eventually cancelled.
3.38 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) was
the implementing agency, under which the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
created. Although HBOR's cooperation and coordination with MoELE and EPEEF were
good, HBOR was very slow in starting up its project activities, thus resulting in a large
accumulated workload during the last year of project implementation. Many technical
assistance contracts were rushed through during the final eight months, which put
tremendous pressure on the technical assistance recipients, particularly the market
operator, system operators, and the energy regulator. In addition, very few loans were
signed under the Contingent Loan Facility up until the final months before the closing
date, when 15 contracts were signed. Finally, the restructuring and closing date extension
request reached the Bank about one year after the recommendation was made during a
previous portfolio review. The update given by HBOR officials to the mission suggests
that some progress is being made since project completion in their renewable energy
portfolio with one wind project in operation, one other wind projects having reached
financial closure and four other renewable energy projects having obtained their
location/construction permits.
3.39  Overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
3.40 M&E Utilization. Since the M&E system was cancelled, and more
fundamentally, only one deal reached financial closure, there was no utilization of
information gathered from monitoring the performance indicators. The results and
measurement framework did not specify how the data from global environmental


﻿31
objective performance indicators would be used and nothing appears to have been done
in this regard.
3.41  Overall, M&E is rated Negligible.
4. District Heating Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES
4.1   According to the Loan Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document, this
Project's Development Objective was "to promote efficient provision of District Heating
services by the Project Implementing Entity." The project implementing entity was HEP
Toplinarstvo (HEP T), which provides District Heating services in the cities of Zagreb
and Osijek, and is a subsidiary of the national electricity utility HEP (Hrvatska
Electroprivreda).
4.2   The Project Appraisal Document further breaks down the project objective in
terms of (a) reducing energy and water losses through rehabilitation of the networks and
closure of non-economic boilers in Osijek; (b) increasing the profitability of HEP T by
promoting cost recovery tariffs, assuming that the Government allowed tariffs to be
adjusted as per HEP T's proposal; and (c) increasing the level of customer satisfaction by
understanding their needs through surveys and implementing a voluntary demand-side
management program in Zagreb and Osijek. These three sub-objectives are used as the
basis for assessing the project's performance.
RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES
4.3   Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The project's
objectives were relevant to the needs of the country's energy sector at project appraisal,
and continue to be relevant at present. Croatia's District Heating systems face important
shortcomings: the piping is subject to heat and water losses; tariffs are low and
insufficient to cover even operating expenses; and due to lack of individual metering,
individual housing units in apartment blocks are billed on the basis of the surface area of
their apartment, reducing the incentive to use energy optimally and leading to wastage.
4.4    The Government's concern for the issues facing the District Heating sector was
reflected in the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Thermal Energy (2005),
followed by a framework for implementing a District Heating strategy in 2006. Attention
to the District Heating sector also supported Croatia's efforts to meet its Kyoto Protocol
commitments through energy savings. The project's objectives are consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2005-09 as well as the current Country
Partnership Strategy for FY2009-12, which has been extended to FY2013. Both the
documents supported Croatia's efforts to improve its District Heating sector, in the


﻿32
overall context of national goals for improving energy efficiency and aligning with
relevant EU directives.
DESIGN
4.5    The project had two components:
*  Component 1: Infrastructure Rehabilitation (estimated cost at appraisal,
US$40.61 million; actual cost, US$41.65 million). This investment component in
Zagreb and Osijek would include network rehabilitation that was identified as a
priority given high energy and water losses. The Zagreb rehabilitation works
would include replacement of a dual pipe trench (35 km), transmission pipes (20
km), and distribution pipes (15 km). HEP T would contribute the procurement of
pipes while the Bank loan would finance the installation works and pipe parts. In
Osijek, distribution pipes (15 km) that were in poor condition would be replaced.
Customers who were connected to the inefficient local heat-only boilers would be
connected to the main Combined Heat and Power plant. Rehabilitation of 25
heating sub-stations would also be supported. For some consumers with a heat
load of 6 MW, the heat supply would be switched from steam to hot water.
*  Component 2: Consultancy Services (estimated cost at appraisal, US$3.60
million; actual cost, US$1.76 million). This component, which would be fully
financed by HEP T, included the development of a demand-side management
program by December 31, 2006; completion of two surveys in Zagreb and Osijek
to assess the needs of consumers; preparation of bidding documents; construction
supervision; and preparation of annual audits for HEP T and the project.
The project objectives and components were not modified during project implementation.
4.6   Monitoring & Evaluation Design. The monitoring and evaluation framework
was well designed. The outcomes and outputs/intermediate outcomes were clear,
measurable and relevant to the project sub-objectives. The outcome indicators covered
physical parameters (energy loss as a percentage of heat generated, and ratio of water
added to the network volume), as well as a financial parameter (net profit/revenues).
Additionally, customer satisfaction was to be measured through a survey mechanism.
Outputs and intermediate outcomes covered percentage of planned rehabilitation
completed, total number of domestic connections, ratio of receivables to sales (in days),
ratio of payables to cash operating expenses (in days), and operating ratio. Baseline data
for 2005 was collected and presented. Year-by-year intermediate target values were
explicit, and the frequency of, and instruments for data collection were clearly delineated.
HEP T was responsible for collecting data on monitoring indicators. The project
documents provided adequate guidance on the measurement methodology for consumer
satisfaction.
4.7   Implementation Arrangements. HEP was the borrower and HEP T was the
implementing agency.


﻿33
RELEVANCE OF DESIGN
4.8   Relevance ofproject design is rated Substantial. The project covered District
Heating systems in Zagreb and Osijek. The results framework clearly links the project's
activities to its expected outputs and outcomes. The efficient provision of District
Heating services would be achieved through reducing energy and water losses through
rehabilitation of the network and closure of non-economic boilers; and promoting cost
recovery tariffs. In terms of institutional design arrangements, the project would lend to
HEP for onlending to HEP T. For this purpose, HEP T would be a separate entity
responsible for heat and steam distribution activities, while HEP would continue to
produce heat and steam through its combined heat and power plants. In parallel, the
Government would commit to the key enabling actions (a satisfactory tariff methodology,
tariff adjustments, a demand-side management program), which would be dated
covenants in the Loan Agreement. In retrospect, the Bank could have asked the
government to implement upfront, the reform actions needed for tariff adjustments and
demand-side management (rather than covenanting these actions). This was particularly
so because of the Bank's experience of the government's slow response to the legal and
regulatory needs for the Renewable Energy Sources project, whose effectiveness date
preceded that of the District Heating project.
Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS
4.9    The project's actual cost was US$43.48 million (based on the December 2010
Euro-US$ exchange rate), marginally higher than the planned cost of US$44.28 million.
The rehabilitation component accounted for 96 percent of the final cost, the rest being for
consultancy services. The Bank financed US$31.68 million of the final cost, slightly
higher than the planned US$29.76 million. HEP T contributed US$11.8 million,
somewhat less than the US$14.54 planned at appraisal.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.10  The project was approved on June 20, 2006, and became effective on March 9,
2007 as scheduled. The project closed without any extensions on June 30, 2010.
4.11  Safeguards. In respect of the Bank's environmental and social safeguard
policies, the project was classified in Category B indicating less adverse, site-specific and
mostly reversible impacts. Safeguard polices for OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
and OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement were triggered. An Environmental
Management Plan was developed and environmental mitigation measures were
mainstreamed as common construction good practice or integrated into technical design.
HEP T implemented all the measures proposed by the City of Zagreb including
protection of trees, avoiding main traffic lanes and pedestrian walks, and respecting
special traffic conditions. HEP T monitored the noise compliance of the construction
equipment, and no complaints were received in this regard. In respect of social
safeguards, a Land Acquisition Policy Framework was prepared in the unlikely event that
HEP T would have to acquire land for the proposed rehabilitation works under the


﻿34
project. Ultimately, no land acquisition was required. On this basis, the project was in
compliance with the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies.
4.12  Financial Management. HEP T maintained a satisfactory financial management
system and regularly submitted to the Bank all the required quarterly and annual financial
reports. The project team confirmed that financial statements and audit reports were
unqualified. The project was implemented in compliance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. Procurement aspects were supervised regularly and no matters of concern
were reported. The location of the Bank procurement specialist in Zagreb greatly
facilitated the resolution of procurement issues as they arose during implementation.
4.13  M&E Implementation. HEP T was responsible for data collection and reported
regularly on physical, technical, financial, environmental and other parameters through
the semi-annual Progress Reports submitted to the Bank. The data provided by HEP T to
the IEG mission indicate that this data is being compiled and recorded regularly.
Achievement of the Objectives
4.14  This report assesses the project objective "to promote efficient provision of
District Heating services by the Project Implementing Entity" in terms of the following
three sub-objectives implied by the PAD: (1) to reduce energy and water losses through
rehabilitation of the network and closure of non-economic boilers in Osijek; (2) increase
the profitability of HEP T by promoting cost recovery tariffs, assuming that the
Government allowed tariffs to be adjusted as per HEP T's proposal; and (3) to increase
the level of customer satisfaction by understanding their needs through surveys and
implementing a voluntary demand-side management program in Zagreb and Osijek.
SUB-OBJECTIVE 1: TO REDUCE ENERGY AND WATER LOSSES THROUGH REHABILITATION
OF THE NETWORK AND CLOSURE OF NON-ECONOMIC BOILERS IN OSIJEK. Rated Substantial.
4.15  The main outcome indicators for this sub-objective were energy and water loss
reductions, which were measured in terms of the percentage of heat generated and ratio
of water added to the network volume respectively.
4.16  Outputs and intermediate outcomes. The above outcomes were achieved
through rehabilitating 20.4 kilometers of hot water pipelines in Zagreb and 7.2 kilometers
in Osijek by project completion. Additionally 2.6 kilometers of new hot water pipelines
were built in Osijek. Altogether, these outputs amounted to 90 percent and 65 percent of
the targets in Zagreb and Osijek respectively at project completion. The shortfall was
mainly due to increased costs of pipeline replacement during project implementation.
Conversion of direct to indirect substations was carried out in 17 cases in Osijek. One
local boiler was closed and the consumers connected to the central heating system, while
another boiler was restricted to hot water production (Table 4).


﻿35
Table 4: District Heating Project: Physical Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes
Baseline (2005); At project Completion (2009); 2010-2011
Zagreb                               Osijek
2005    2009           2010   2011   2005     2009           2010    2011
Baseline Project Closing             Baseline Project Closing
Target Actual                         Target Actual
Planned
rehabilitation/
replacement of -      100   90      -       -      -        100    65      -       -
hot water pipes
completed (%)
Total number of
domestic      96,000  98,000 99,646  102,077 102,280 10,100  10,500  10,384  10,418  10,416
connections
District Heating
Channels
constructed/  -       22.0  20.4    -       -      0        15.0   9.7     -      -
replaced
(meters)
Source: HEP T
4.17    The number of emergencies reported for the hot water pipelines have remained
stable in Zagreb (84 and 104 in 2000 and 2011 respectively and Osijek (14 each in 2010
and 2011). However, the mission was informed that the magnitude of these emergencies
was lower on the whole because they relate mainly to smaller connections (Table 5).
4.18    The mission was also informed that over the period 2010-11, 3,191 meters and
185 meters of pipeline have been added in Zagreb and Osijek, respectively. Additionally,
4,470 meters and 1,316 meters of old hot water pipelines have been replaced in Zagreb
and Osijek, respectively. Direct to indirect sub-station replacement has been carried out
for 34 substations during 2010-11. During 2011-12, 44 heating stations have been
revitalized, benefiting several commercial customers and hospitals (Table 5).
Table 5: District Heating Project: Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes during 2010-2011
Zagreb             Osijek
2010     2011      2010     2011
New meters of pipeline on the network (meters)        1776     1415      55        130
Replacement of old hot water pipelines (meters)       230      4,240     476      840
Number of emergencies reported for the hot water pipeline  84  104       14       14
Reconstructing heating stations of the direct type to indirect type  13  21  -    -
Source: HEP T
4.19    Outcomes. Energy loss reductions reported at project completion (end-2009
figures) favorably exceeded their targets in both Zagreb and Osijek. This mission
verified that, as of 2011, these reduced energy loss levels have been maintained in Osijek,
but Zagreb's energy losses have risen to some extent. Specifically, energy losses for
Zagreb's network were 12.20 percent in 2005, fell to 9.45 percent in 2009, and increased
to 11.00 percent in 2011. For Osijek, these numbers were 11.00 percent in 2005, falling


﻿36
to 6.80 percent in 2009, and after rising in 2010, have settled back to 7.00 percent in
2011. (Table 6).
4.20   Water losses were reduced significantly in both Zagreb and Osijek at project
completion, again exceeding expectations. Since then, Zagreb's network has made
further significant reductions in water losses, while Osijek has maintained them close to
project completion levels. The mission was informed that, for Zagreb, water losses were
reduced from 26.50 percent in 2005 to 22.63 percent in 2009 and further to 12.15 percent
in 2011. In Osijek, the water losses reduced significantly from 11.5 percent in 2005 to
5.91 percent in 2009, but rose somewhat to 6.87 percent by 2011. (Table 6).
Table 6: District Heating Project: Outcome Indicators Baseline (2005); At project
Completion (2009); 2010-2011
Zagreb                             Osijek
2005    2009          2010  2011   2005    2009           2010  2011
Baseline Project Closing           Baseline Project Closing
Target  Actual                     Target  Actual
Energy loss
(% ofheat     12.20   10.2   9.45   11.70  11.00  11.00  10.00  6.80   9.80  7.00
generated)
Ratio of water
added to the  26.50   23.0   22.63  13.03  12.15  11.5   9.00   5.91   7.00  6.87
network volume
SUB-OBJECTIVE 2: To INCREASE THE PROFITABILITY OF HEP T BY PROMOTING COST
RECOVERY TARIFFS, ASSUMING THAT THE GOVERNMENT ALLOWED TARIFFS TO BE
ADJUSTED AS PER HEP T'S PROPOSAL. Rated Negligible
4.21   This sub-objective was not achieved, mainly because HEP T's sales tariffs, which
have been subject to Government approval, did not keep up adequately with the increase
in operating expenses, especially energy prices. Purchases of heat and steam from HEP
are the single largest component (about 75 percent) of HEP T's annual operating
expenses. With the increases in international energy prices, HEP T's per unit purchase
cost of heat and steam from HEP increased by a cumulative 43 percent between 2005 to
2008, and have increased even more sharply since then. Tariffs did not increase till 2009,
when the Government permitted a 16 percent increase in the average tariff, but they have
remained at similar levels till end-2012. The mission was informed that, at the current
level of tariffs and operating expenses, an even greater loss than in 2011 is likely in 2012.
Despite increases in District Heating allowed by the central government, local
municipalities retained the authority to specify prices for their area, and this has put
further pressure on HEP T and HEP. This mission was informed that the new Energy
Law passed in 2012 allows HEP/HEP T to set prices, subject to the approval of the
energy regulator HERA (Croatia Energy Regulatory Agency). The local governments
will no longer be able to modify these tariffs. This new development is discussed under
"risk to development outcome". (Table 7)


﻿37
Table 7: District Heating Project: Financial Outcome/Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Baseline (2005); At project Completion (2009); 2010-2011
Zagreb                               Osijek
Outcome Indicators
2005     2009         2010   2011    2005     2009          2010  2011
Baseline  Project Closing            Baseline  Project Closing
Target Actual                        Target Actual
Netprofit/revenues -11.3  0.5  -17.8  -24.9  -57.2  -11.3     0.5   -24.9  -15.4  -29.4
Customer
stsfton        -       90     85     -      -       -       90     89     -      -
satisfaction (%)
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Ratio of receivables 102  78   138    143    148     102     78      115   108    98
to sales (days)
Ratio of payables to
cash operating  259      122   234    223    223     259      122   241    212    228
expense (days)
Operating ratio  1.11   0.98   1.18   1.27   1.58    1.11    0.98    1.20  1.20   1.44
Source: HEP T
4.22   Net profit for HEP T in Zagreb decreased from a baseline value of -11.3 percent
in 2005 to -17.8 percent in 2009 and further to -57.2 percent in 2011. For Osijek, the net
profit decreased from -11.3 percent in 2005 to -24.9 percent in 2009 and further to -29.4
percent in 2011. Other financial indicators missed their targets by a wide margin, and
either worsened or improved marginally between 2005 baselines and 2009. The ratio of
receivables to sales (days) increased from 102 to 138 in Zagreb and 102 to 115 in Osijek
against a target of 78 days for both cities. The ratio of payables to cash operation
expense (days) decreased marginally from 259 to 234 in Zagreb and 259 to 241 in Osijek
against a target of 122 days for both cities. The operating ratio24 worsened from 1.11 to
1.18 in Zagreb and from 1.11 to 1.20 in Osijek, against a target of 0.98 in both cities.
The mission was informed that all three indicators remain at similar or worse levels at
end-201 1. In particular, operating ratio for Zagreb and Osijek has deteriorated to 1.58
and 1.44 respectively (Table 7).
4.23   The persistence of tariffs that are less than cost-recovery levels has resulted in an
increase in HEP T's annual losses from HRK 63 million in 2005 to HRK 194 million in
2008, before declining to HRK 113 million in 2009.
SUB-OBJECTIVE 3: To INCREASE THE LEVEL OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION BY
UNDERSTANDING THEIR NEEDS THROUGH SURVEYS AND IMPLEMENTING A VOLUNTARY
DSM PROGRAM IN ZAGREB AND OSIJEK. Rated Modest.
4.24   Overall customer satisfaction levels in both Osijek and Zagreb as measured at
project completion were close to the targeted levels of 90 percent (Zagreb 85 percent and
Osijek 89 percent). These results were based on two customer satisfactions surveys that
were conducted by HEP T in Zagreb and Osijek, first in June-July, 2007 and the second
24 operating expenses as a percentage of revenue


﻿38
in April-May, 2010. The number of respondents for each survey was approximately
1,000 in Zagreb and 500 in Osijek. Among other concerns, the surveys measured
consumers' satisfaction with provision of heating and warm water service;
implementation of strategies considering service issues; and willingness of households to
pay increased price with purpose to improve heating and hot water service quality. Both
surveys were preceded by a test pilot survey covering 20 respondents to test the
comprehensibility of the survey's instruments and the appropriate duration of interview
itself. The mission was informed that no further surveys of customer satisfaction have
been carried out since 2010 (Table 8).
Table 8: District Heating Project: Outputs/Intermediate Outcomes for Customer
Satisfaction Baseline (2005); At project Completion (2009); 2010-2011
Zagreb                            Osijek
2005   2009         2010  2011   2005    2009         2010  2011
Baseline Project Closing          Baseline Project Closing
Target Actual                     Target Actual
Customer
saifcio  0)-   90     85    -      -      -      90     89    -     -
satisfaction (%)
Total number
of domestic  96,000  98,000  99,646  102,077  102,280  10,100  10,500  10,384  10,418  10,416
connections
Source: HEP T
4.25   The Government chose voluntary implementation of demand-side management
measures in apartment buildings and approved in 2009 the revisions to the laws and
regulations defining the roles, responsibilities, and requirements for different parties in
implementing such measures. At project completion it was clear that tenants were not
provided the financial incentives to make decisions to invest in demand-side management
measures because the heat tariffs continued to be low and savings of even 20 percent of
annual heat consumption were not adequate to pay back the investments.
4.26   In Zagreb, 3,646 domestic connections were added compared to a target of 2,000.
While in Osijek 384 materialized against a target of 500. Since project completion and
until end-201 1, Zagreb added 2,634 more connections (raising the number of connections
from 99,646 to 102,280 and Osijek added a marginal number of 32 connections (from
10,384 to 10,416) over the same period.
Efficiency
4.27   Efficiency is rated Substantial. The projected economic rate of return for the
project at appraisal was 17 percent. At project completion, and using the same
methodology as at appraisal, the economic rate of return was higher at 24 percent. The
difference was mainly due to energy savings that were larger than anticipated and
economic energy prices that were also higher than appraisal estimates, particularly in
2008. The project was completed within the scheduled implementation period and close
to the estimated costs while implementing most of the planned activities.


﻿39
Ratings
OUTCOME
4.28 Overall project outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The relevance of
the project objective remains high given the continuing need for improving the physical
and financial performance of the District Heating systems in Zagreb and Osijek. The
results chain was simple, clear and appropriate. However, the approach of covenanting
reform actions relating to tariff adjustments and demand-side management (rather than
asking Government to implement them up-front) proved to be a significant shortcoming.
Relevance of design is therefore rated substantial. The first objective of reducing energy
and water losses was achieved to a substantial extent. Financial performance of HEP T
deteriorated during the project period and till end-2012, mainly due to the persistence of
low tariffs, making the achievement of the second objective negligible. Under the third
objective customer satisfaction was favorable as measure at project completion, but there
has been little progress in promoting demand-side management, making the overall
achievement of this objective modest. Efficiency is rated substantial given the
favorable economic rates of return (which benefited from the higher than expect value of
energy savings due to the prevailing high energy prices); and from the project being
completed as scheduled and approximately at the planned cost. Overall outcome is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.
RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
4.29   The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Significant. HEP T's management and staff are experienced and motivated, and the
project's physical investments have improved the state of the network and added to the
company's technical efficiency. These gains are considered sustainable. However, on
the financial front, significant risks have remained beyond project completion. The
financial impact of HEP T's negative profitability is absorbed by building arrears with
HEP, but there are little or no resources for continued rehabilitation and upgrading of the
District Heating network. The government has not allowed tariffs to keep pace with
increasing operating costs, the bulk of which are energy costs that are subject to
international prices. The belated tariff increase in 2009 was insufficient. Moreover, local
authorities have exercised their right to modify heating tariffs in their areas and the
resulting lower tariffs have further hurt HEP T's bottom line.
4.30   In December 2012, the Croatian Parliament passed the New Energy Law which
liberalizes energy markets in general, and gives HEP the ability to revise District Heating
tariffs subject to regulation by the regulatory agency HERA. There will be no flexibility
for local governments influence these tariffs. Feedback from officials indicates that if
prices are raised by 36 percent as a first step as is being proposed, about 50 percent of the
revenue gap can be covered. This will also set the stage for HEP and HEP T in reaching
an agreement for a progressive settlement of HEP T's accumulated arrears. Officials
indicated to the IEG mission that along with an increase in heating tariffs, there will be
pressure on HEP T to improve its performance for which HEP T appears to be technically
prepared.


﻿40
4.31   The use of Heat Cost Allocators, which provides a strong incentive for efficient
use of heat, remains voluntary. While buildings have a choice, they do not yet give high
priority to energy efficiency issues. Some new buildings are expanding District Heating
to buildings with their own heating systems (and will replace existing boilers).
4.32   HEP T officials informed the mission that the program of revitalization of heating
stations for direct to indirect type will be completed by 2017. This is being financed
from internal resources in Zagreb. Osijek will be taken up next, where all the heating
stations are of the direct type. About 75 percent of the network in the city has to be
revitalized, which will be taken up at the rate of 20 km per year. HEP is financing these
tasks out of its own funds, and is also trying to cooperate with HEP ESCO to put it under
the overall umbrella of energy efficiency, so as to tap funds that may be available for that
purpose.
BANK PERFORMANCE
4.33 The quality at entry for the project is rated Satisfactory. The technical viability
of the proposed investments and their readiness for implementation were adequately
assessed. Benefit-cost analyses were also conducted to establish the satisfactory
economic and financial rates of return for the investments in both Zagreb and Osijek. A
sector-wide approach covering all District Heating companies in Croatia was initially
considered but was not pursued because of the uncertain viability of some smaller
companies and the likely complexity of project implementation. Lending directly to HEP
T was also not pursued because HEP T was not yet profitable and statutorily was not
allowed to take on debt, whereas its parent company HEP was permitted to assume debt
and already had experience in working with the Bank on two other ongoing projects. In
retrospect, the approach of covenanting reform actions (rather than asking Government to
implement them up-front) was a significant shortcoming, especially since warning signals
were already being given by the Government's long delays (eventually two years) in
delivering the enabling regulatory framework for the Renewable Energy Project that was
approved by the Board a year earlier.
4.34   The Bank's quality of supervision during the project is rated Satisfactory.
Sufficient budgetary and staff resources were allocated to project supervision. Close
supervision and monitoring was made possible by a highly decentralized Bank team. The
objective of improving HEP T's profitability proved to be a key issue, and the task team
as well as the Bank's country and sector management consistently drew the
Government's attention to the need for timely and adequate tariff increases that would
enable HEP T to offset increases in international energy costs. The Bank did consider
suspension of disbursements given the Government's failure to raise tariffs as covenanted
in the Guarantee Agreement, but the project team with support from Country and Sector
management decided against it since the physical investments were proceeding well, HEP
T was providing adequate counterpart financing, and suspension of disbursements would
adversely affect the pace of project implementation.
4.35   Government and implementing agency officials provided positive feedback on
their engagement with the Bank to this mission. The officials appreciated the variety of
expertise made available by the Bank team, and also a sense of assurance that the project


﻿41
tasks would be supported until completion. They would welcome re-engagement with
the Bank, not merely for the financial support but for the professionally enhancing
experience that it provides.
4.36  Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
4.37   The Government's performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
Government showed commitment during project preparation. It also took early and
positive steps to improve implementation readiness. By the time of effectiveness: (i) the
fiduciary arrangements were in place; (ii) HEP and HEP T staff to implement the project
had been identified; (iii) HEP T had already started the procurement for the works
contract; (iv) disclosure requirements had been met; (v) the results assessment was
completed; and (vi) an Environmental Management Plan and a Land Acquisition
Framework were in place. Government officials worked closely and cooperated fully
with the Bank's project team. However, during implementation, the Government failed to
raise HEP T's tariffs to reach the agreed cost recovery levels, which resulted in the
continuous worsening of HEP T's financial situation. As a result of the Government's
inaction, the financial viability of HEP T as a self-sustaining entity is at risk. As
discussed in para 3.24 above, recent developments following the New Energy Law
passed in end-2012 hold promise for tariffs moving towards cost recovery levels but the
effect of these yet to be seen.
4.38 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Satisfactory.
HEP T as the project implementing agency demonstrated technical and professional
competence in implementing the project. It had officials designated specifically to plan
and execute the investments, and its adequately staffed and qualified counterpart team
was well organized, motivated, and quick in learning Bank procedures. There were no
concerns in project management, procurement, or financial management, except for a
delay in 2008 in pipeline installation. HEP T prepared bidding documents of good
quality, addressed issues in a timely manner in consultation with the Bank team, made
counterpart funds available when needed, and reported on progress regularly. HEP T
mainstreamed environmental mitigation measures with construction good practice or
integrated them into design.
4.39  Overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
4.40  M&E Utilization. In cases where there were risks of delays in achieving targeted
levels for certain indicators, HEP T alerted the Bank team and discussed the underlying
reasons and sought measures to minimize or avoid the delays. Considerable discussion
revolved around the monitoring of HEP T's precarious financial situation and the urgent
need for adequate tariff adjustments. HEP T officials informed the IEG mission that the
data is used routinely for monitoring progress and as a feedback mechanism for taking
corrective measures.
4.41  Overall, M&E is rated High.


﻿42
5. Lessons
Lessons
5.1   A supportive regulatory environment is crucial for overcoming risk aversion
to adopting new financing instruments for energy efficiency projects; creating a
level playing field for a competitive ESCO market; and to ensure sustainability of
energy services.
*  The Energy Efficiency project was unable to stimulate the ESCO market beyond
some sectors in the public domain due to remaining regulatory and legal constraints
(as for example in the residential sector).
*  In Croatia, two factors may have inhibited the emergence of a competitive regime for
ESCOs: (a) HEP ESCO's special standing as a subsidiary of the national power
utility HEP; and (b) the lack of standardized contract models, budgeting procedures,
and public procurement rules.
*  The capacity of HEP T, the District Heating Company, to provide reliable services in
the long run is likely to be impacted if its financial viability is not assured through
either remunerative tariffs or well-designed subsidies.
5.2   Ensuring reliable means for verifying energy savings provides a clear basis
for sharing the resulting gains between the beneficiary and the financing source,
and therefore incentivizes energy efficiency efforts.
*  Underdeveloped means for monitoring and verification meant that there was an
inadequate basis for sharing the gains from energy savings, thus creating a
disincentive for adopting the ESCO model.
*   Given the prospect of HEP increasing District Heating tariffs in the future, demand-
side management should be promoted to ease the transition to higher tariffs. In
particular, individual metering will need to be introduced widely so that each unit can
be charged for their actual energy use.
5.3   There is a need for the Government to coordinate its various ministries in
order to provide common technical and other support services, with a view to
mitigating risks for investors and consumers in renewable energy efforts.
* While rights to state-owned land are being handed out to the private sector or for
public-private partnerships in solar and wind power projects, energy resource
mapping and mature project designs need to be provided as a common service by the
government. In the case of biomass projects, where various ministries including
forestry and water are involved, horizontal connections between ministries need to be
strengthened. These arrangements were lacking during the Renewable Energy
Resources project experience.


﻿43
References
Delomez, Yann. 2012. "Renewable Energy in Croatia. Brussels Exporters Programme."
EBRD 2010. "Strategy for Croatia 2010-2013." Document of the European Bank for
Reconstruction And Development. 27 April 2010.
Energetics (Zagreb Fair). 2012. "Conference on Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy Resources." Zagreb, Sept 20-21, 2012
Energy Community. 2010. "Investment Conference on Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy." Vienna, Austria
Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar. 2010 "Energy Efficiency Policies and Measures in
Croatia: Monitoring of EU and National Energy Efficiency Targets"
. 2012. "Case Study On Energy Efficiency Financing: Croatia. Third International
Forum: Energy for Sustainable Development Capacity Building for Energy Efficiency
and Access to Cleaner Energy in Central Asia and Neighbouring Regions." Kyrgyzstan,
Issyk Kul Lake, 12-14 September 2012.
ESMAP 2012. "Public Procurement of Energy Efficient Products Lessons From Around
the World." Energy Sector Management Assistance Program. Technical Report 003/12.
World Bank Washington DC.
ESMAP and World Bank 2012. "Financing Municipal Energy Efficiency Investments:
Global Experiences and Lessons Learned." William Derbyshire. Presentation. 26
November 2012.
European Court of Auditors. 2012. "Cost-Effectivness of Cohesion Policy Investments
in Energy Efficiency." Special Report No.21.
Government of Croatia. 2012. "Report on the Implementation of Key Structural
Measures in the Republic of Croatia."
IFC 2011. "Energy Service Company Market Analysis." International Finance
Corporation. Washington D.C.
Souleymane Coulibaly, Uwe Deichmann, William R. Dillinger, Marcel lonescu-Heroiu,
loannis N. Kessides, Charles Kunaka, Daniel Saslavsky. 2012. "Eurasian Cities: New
Realities along the Silk Road." World Bank.
Urge-Vorsatz, Diana; Pierre Langlois, Silvia Rezessy. 2004. "Why Hungary? Lessons
Learned from the Success of the Hungarian ESCO Industry."Central European
University, Center for Policy Studies. Environmental Sciences and Policy Department
WEC 2008. "Energy Efficiency Policies around the World: Review and Evaluation."
World Energy Council.
. 2010. "Energy Efficiency A Recipe for Success." World Energy Council.


﻿44                             ANNEX A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT (IBRD-71980)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate   current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    39.80          33.33             84%
Loan amount                            12.00          12.73             106%
Cofinancing                              -              -                 -
Cancellation
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)  2.02  4.65   8.22  10.34  11.55 12.00 12.00 12.00  12.00
Actual (US$M)               0    0.05   0.9   1.86  2.75   5.33  9.75  11.23  12.73
Actual as % of appraisal    0      1    11     18    24    44     81    94    106
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
Appraisal                                 03/21/2003               03/21/2003
Board approval                            10/07/2003               10/07/2003
Signing                                   11/10/2003               11/10/2003
Effectiveness                             04/08/2004               04/08/2004
Closing date                              06/30/2010               06/30/2010


﻿ANNEX A                                    45
Staff Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                          Staff Cost (Bank Budget Only)
US$ '000s (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FYO3                                                        2.10
Total:                              2.10
Supervision
FY04                                                       19.84
FY05                                                       12.57
FY06                                                       39.20
FY07                                                       83.57
FY08                                                       55.86
FY09                                                       51.62
FY10                                                       34.30
FY11                                                       17.59
Total:                             316.94
Task Team Members
Names         Title                                  Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rachid Benmessoud         Team Leader                     ECSEG     Team Lead
Yves Duvivier             Team Member                     ECSEG     Financial Analyst
Peter Law                 Team Member                     ECSEG     Infrastructure Specialist
Irina Kichigina           Sr. Counsel                     LEGEG     Lawyer
Elzbieta Sieminska        Procurement Specialist          ECSCS     Procurement
John Cowan                ESCO Management Specialist      ECSIE     ESCO Specialist
Hirant Heart              Financial Management Specialist  ECSPF    Financial Management
Rory O'Donoghue           Financial Analyst Consultant    ECSIE     Financial Analyst
Supervision/ICR
Peter Johansen            Team Leader                     ECSSD     Team Lead
Angelica A. Fernandes     Procurement Analyst             ECSC2     Procurement
Claudia I. Vasquez Suarez  Consultant                     ECSSD     Energy Economist
Iwona Warzecha            Sr. Fin. Management Specialist  ECSC3     Financial Management
Nicholay Chistyakov       Disbursement Officer            LOAG1     Disbursement
Michael Gascoyne          Sr. Resource Management Officer  CFRPA    Resource Management
Mirela Mart               Consultant                      ECSPS     Financial Management
Elzbieta Sieminska        Procurement Specialist          ECSC3     Procurement
Ranjan Ganguli            Financial Management Specialist  ECSC3    Financial Management
Natasa Vetma              Operations Officer              ECSS3     Env. Safeguards
Stjepan Gabric            Senior Operations Officer       ECSS6
Roman Palac               Operations Analyst              ECSIE
John Cowan                ESCO Management Specialist      ECSIE     ESCO Specialist
Xiaoping Wang             Sr. Energy Specialist           LCSEG     Energy Specialist
Hana Huzjak               Program Assistant               ECCHR
Rozena Serrano            Program Assistant               ECSSD
Bogdanka Krtinic          Program Assistant               ECCHR


﻿46                            ANNEX A
RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES PROJECT (TF-54973)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
estimate   current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    8.85           7.33             83%
Loan amount                            5.89           4.39             75%
Cofinancing                              -             -                 -
Cancellation                             -            1.50
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY06   FY07   FY08    FY09   FY10   FY11   FY12   FY13
Appraisal estimate (US$M)  1.50  3.00   4.50    5.40   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.89
Actual (US$M)             0.00   0.55   0.55    1.45   3.43   4.39   4.39   4.39
Actual as % of appraisal   0      18     12     27      62     80     80     75
Date of last disbursement: September 7, 2010
Project Dates
Original         Actual
Appraisal                                 02/21/2005        02/21/2005
Negotiations                              05/09/2005        05/09/2005
Board approval                            06/23/2005        06/23/2005
Signing                                   11/23/2005        11/23/2005
Effectiveness                             11/24/2005        11/23/2005
Closing date                              04/01/2010        05/31/2010


﻿ANNEX A                               47
Staff Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                    Staff Cost (Bank Budget Only)
US$ '000s (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY01                                                 53.62
FY02                                                 59.00
FY03                                                 23.46
FY04                                                 24.46
FY05                                                 49.82
FY06                                                 61.94
Total:                         272.30
Supervision
FY07                                                 50.77
FY08                                                 58.83
FY09                                                 50.81
FY10                                                 22.45
FY11                                                 22.45
Total:                         227.52
Task Team Members
Names       Title                    Unit           Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rashid Benmessaoud  Senior Energy Specialist SACPK       Task Team Leader
Grederick Renner    Consultant                  -        Renewable Energy Expert
Supervision
Peter Johansen      Senior Energy Specialist ECSS2       Task Team Leader
Angelica A.         Consultant           ECSS2           Procurement
Fernandes
Stjepan Gabric      Senior Operations    ECSS6
Officer
Hana Huzjak         Operations Analyst   ECSS6
Lamija Marijanovic  Financial Management  ECSC3          Financial Management
Specialist
Mirela Mart         Consultant           ECSPS           Environmental Safeguards
Natasa Vetma        Operations Officer    ECSS3
Iwona Warzecha      Sr. Financial        ECSC3           Financial Management
Management Specialist


﻿48                             ANNEX A
DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT (IBRD-48280)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or        Actual as % of
estimate   current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    44.28          43.48               98%
Loan amount                            29.80          31.68              106%
Cofinancing                              -              -                  -
Cancellation
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY07        FY08         FY09         FY10        FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     7.45       14.90        22.35        29.80       29.80
Actual (US$M)                 5.43       10.58        15.77        31.68       31.68
Actual as % of appraisal      73%         71%          71%         107%        107%
Date of final disbursement: October 19, 2010
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
Appraisal                                    04/06/2006               04/06/2006
Board approval                               06/20/2006               06/20/2006
Signing                                      09/11/2006               09/11/2006
Effectiveness                                03/09/2007               03/09/2007
Closing date                                 06/30/2010               06/30/2010
Staff Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                     Staff Cost (Bank Budget Only)
US$ '000s (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY05                                                 23.10
FY06                                                 184.29
Total:                         207.39
Supervision
FY07                                                 85.16
FY08                                                 81.27
FY09                                                 89.26
FY10                                                 85.91
FY11                                                 24.78
Total:                         573.78


﻿ANNEX A                                49
Task Team Members
Names              Title                               Unit
Lending
Ljiljana Boranic              Team Assistant                      ECCHR
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu        Environmental Engineer              ECSS3
Stjepan Gabric                Senior Operations Officer           ECSS6
Irina L. Kichigina            Chief Counsel                       LEGEM
Mirela Mart                   Consultant                          ECSPS
Kishore Nadkarni              Consultant                          EASCS
Norval Stanley Peabody        Consultant                          EASIS
Pekka Kalevi Salminen         Sr. Energy Specialist               ECSS2
Sudipto Sarkar                Sector Leader                       EASIN
Yukari Tsuchiya               Temporary                           ECSSD
Antonia G. Viyachka           Procurement Specialist              ECSC2
Supervision
Ljiljana Bornic               Team Assistant                      ECCHR
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu        Environmental Engr.                 ECSS3
Stjepan Gabric                Senior Operations Officer           ECSS6
Hana Huzjak                   Operations Analyst                  ECSS6
Bogdanka Krtinic              Team Assistant                      ECCHR
Lamija Marijanovic            Financial Management Specialist.    ECSC3
Mirela Mart                   Consultant                          ECSPS
Kishore Nadkarni              Consultant                          EASCS
Norval Stanley Peabody        Consultant                          EASIS
Poonam Rohatgi                Program Assistant                   SASDO
Pekka Kalevi Salminen         Sr, Energy Specialist.              ECSS2
Rozena Serrano                Program Assistant                   ECSSD
Ljiljana Tarade               Operations Analyst                  ECCHR
Natasa Vetma                  Operations Officer                  ECSS3
Antonia G. Viyachka           Procurement Specialist              ECSC2


﻿50                            ANNERX B
Annex B. Other Tables
Table 1. World Bank Projects for Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and District Heating
in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region
Project
Cost
(US$
Id       Project name                          Country              Closing Date million)
P056192 Local Development Pilot               Bosnia and Herzegovina 31-May-2005      15
P008417 Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation  Georgia            30-Jun-2000       18
P008479 Energy Environment                    Hungary               31-Dec-2001      100
P008519 Power & District Heating Rehabilitation  Kyrgyz Republic    31 -Dec-2007      20
P055733 Power and District Heating Supplemental  Kyrgyz Republic   N/A                15
P044748 Social Infrastructure Retrofitting    Republic of Belarus   31-Dec-2010       23
P008314 District Heating                      Republic of Bulgaria  30-Jun-2008       34
P095389 District Heating                      Republic of Croatia   30-Jun-2010       30
P079978 Energy Efficiency                     Republic of Croatia   30-Jun-2010        5
P008400 District Heating Rehabilitation       Republic of Estonia   31-Dec-1999       38
P097635 Lignite Power Technical Assistance    Republic of Kosovo    31-Dec-2011        9
P008530 Riga District Heating                 Republic of Latvia    30-Jun-2005       36
P008526 Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation  Republic of Latvia  30-Jun-2000      14
P070112 Education Improvement                 Republic of Lithuania  30-Sep-2006      25
P035802 Municipal Development                 Republic of Lithuania  30-Jun-2005      20
P063656 Vilnius District Heating              Republic of Lithuania  15-Jun-2005      17
P036011 Klaipeda Geothermal Demonstration     Republic of Lithuania  3 1-Dec-2002      6
P035163 Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot       Republic of Lithuania  30-Jun-2001      10
P040558 Energy 2                              Republic of Moldova   30-Apr-2012       35
P065059 Krakow Energy Efficiency              Republic of Poland    31-Dec-2008       15
P037339 Podhale Geothermal District Heating & Env. Republic of Poland  31-Dec-2004    38
P008614 Katowice Heat Supply & Conservation   Republic of Poland    31-Oct-2000       45
P008576 Heat Supply Restructuring & Conservation  Republic of Poland  30-Jun-2000    340
P008853 Environment                           Republic of Slovenia  30-Jun-2001     23.9
P038551 Municipal Heating                     Russian Federation    30-Jun-2008       85
P036973 Enterprise Housing Divestiture        Russian Federation    31-Dec-2003      300
P008803 Energy Efficiency                     Russian Federation    31-Jan-2003      107
P042720 St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation  Russian Federation  30-Apr-2002    31
P044832 Kiev District Heating Improvement     Ukraine               30-Jun-2007      200
P055738 Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement     Ukraine              30-Jun-2006       28
P055739 Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency  Ukraine            30-Jun-2005       18


﻿51                               ANNEX C
Annex C. Croatia: Trends in the Energy Sector and
Energy Efficiency
Energy Sector trends
The total primary energy consumption in Croatia including the transport sector has increased
at an average annual rate of 1.6 percent during 1995-2010, though there has been a negative
3.0 percent growth since 2008 due to the economic slowdown. Among the sources of
energy, over the entire 1995-2010 period, coal and coke showed the fastest growth at 9.2
percent per year, increasing its share in total energy consumption from 2.7 percent to 8.0
percent. More recently, since 2008, very rapid annual growth has been recorded in wind
power (87 percent) and in other renewable energy sources including solar, geothermal,
biodiesel, landfill gas, and biogas (30 percent) but all these renewable sources together still
account for less than 0.3 percent of total primary energy consumption. (Table 1).
Table 9:Croatia: Energy Sources in Total Primary Energy Consumption
Annual Growth (%)      Share of Consumption (%)
1995-2010  2008-2010  1995         2010
Oil                              0.2        -8,6       53.3         43.4
Natural gas                      2.1        0.6        28.3         30.7
Hydroelectricity                 3.2        25.8       6.6          8.4
Coal and coke                    9.2        -1.6       2.7          8.0
Electricity (net imports)        2.1        -14.9      4.4          4.8
Total Biomass                    1.3        8.2        4.7          4.6
Wind electricity                            86.7       -            0.14
Other Renewables                            29.5       -            0.14
TOTAL PRIMARY CONSUMPTION        1.6       -3.0        100         100
Source: Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar. 2012.
Final energy consumption in Croatia during the period 1995-2010 increased at an average
annual rate of 2.2 percent, though there has been a net decrease of 2.1 percent during 2008-
2010 due to the economic slowdown. During 1995-20 10 for the tertiary sector, households,
and industry, the average annual rate of growth in final energy consumption was 3.9 percent,
2.1 percent and 0.4 percent respectively. Significantly, during the 2008-2010 period, final
energy consumption for the tertiary sector and the household sector rose at 3.0 percent and
2.8 percent respectively, though all other sectors showed a slowdown, especially in the case
of industry (-9.8 percent). In terms of sector shares in final energy consumption between
1995 and 2010, the household sector held almost steady at around 30 percent, while the
tertiary sector increased slightly from 9.3 percent to 11.9 percent, and the industry sector
decreased significantly from 28.9 percent to 21.9 percent. (Table 2)


﻿ANNEX C                                52
Table 10: Croatia: Sector-wise Final Energy Consumption
Sector            Annual Growth (%)        Share of Consumption (%)
1995-2010   2008-2010    1995     2010
Transport         3.8        -2.1          26.0     32.6
Residential       2.1         2.8          30.2     29.7
Industry          0.4        -9.8          28.9     21.9
Tertiary & Others  3.9        3.0          9.3      11.9
Agriculture       -0.2       -1.5          5.6      3.9
ALL               2.2        -2.1          100.0    100.0
Source: Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar. 2012.
Croatia imports a large share of its energy needs. In 2010, the country imported energy
equivalent to 223 PetaJoules (or 5.33 million tons oil equivalent or mtoe), about 55 percent
of its total energy needs of 405 PetaJoules (or 9.67 mtoe). Given the long-term trends in the
growth of energy consumption and the prospect of increasing import needs, improving
energy efficiency is clearly an economic priority for Croatia. Also, as a future member of
EU, Croatia has pledged to fulfill EU's "20-20-20" commitment by the year 2020 - to cut
greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent, increase energy efficiency by 20 percent, and use
renewable energy for 20 percent of its energy needs. These ambitious targets - to be
achieved by 2020 - require significant long-term investments not easily available in a time of
economic crisis in Europe. They also pose a challenge for a country that is struggling to
emerge from recession.
Between 1995 and 2010, the total CO2 emissions from final energy consumption in Croatia
increased by 31 percent. The highest increase was in transport (77 percent) followed by
households, services and agriculture (23 percent). On the other hand, CO2 emissions from
25
industry decreased by 6 percent over the 1995-2010 period.
The National Energy Efficiency Action Plans (NEEAP) of the Republic of Croatia comply
with the European Commission's directive which requires each Member State to submit to
the European Commission an energy efficiency action plan. The first NEEAP provides a
package of measures for the most important final energy demand sectors: residential
households, services, industry and transport. These measures are planned in order to achieve
the indicative targets for 2010 and 2016, and to comply with the requirements regarding the
exemplary role of the public sector. The expected energy savings of the measures envisaged
in this Action Plan for each of the four major sectors of final energy consumption are
summarized in Table 3 below.
The 2nd NEEAP for Croatia has been prepared and is expected to be approved by mid-2013.
This plan has a dual significance: as an implementing document presenting a comprehensive
energy efficiency policy for the next three-year period; and as a report with a detailed
presentation of the activities undertaken in the previous period and the assessment of actual
energy savings compared to the targets set in the 1st NEEAP.
25 http://www.eea.europa.eu/


﻿53                                ANNEX C
Table 11: Croatia: National indicative targets for Energy Savings in 2016
(PJ or PetaJoules)
National indicative targets for Energy Savings  19.77
National intermediate indicative target in 2010  6.53
(PJ)
Sector division of target  Sector target (GWh)  Achieved energy  Estimated energy savings
savings in 2010 (PJ)  in 2016 (PJ)
2010       2016    Total   From         Total   From measures
(TD*)   measures     (TD)    (BU+MAED*)
(BU*)
Residential           2.24       6.72    4.43    1.53         12.64   9.58
Services              1.25       3.76    0.33    1.32        4.50     3.85
Industry              1.12       3.36    1.21    0.60         4.93    1.99
Transport             1.98       5.93    0.46    0.08         16.60   3.22
Total:                6.59       19.77   6.43    3.53         38.66   18.64
(%) compared to ESD*  3%         9%      2.9%    1.6%         17.6%   8.5%
reference consumption          I
* BU: Business as usual; TD: Top-Down approach; MAED: Model for Analysis of Energy Demand'
ESD: Energy Supply and Demand
Source: Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship
Trends in Energy Efficiency
Energy efficiency has shown an overall improvement in Croatia during 1995-2010, with the
energy efficiency index ODEX26 for the whole economy improving by 14.5 percent, which is
close to the EU average of 16.5 percent (in the period 1995-2009). The industrial sector and
transport sector contributed the most to this improvement with the energy efficiency index
improving by 20 percent and 19 percent respectively over the 1995-2010 periods. In
contrast, improvement in energy efficiency in the household sector was much lower at 4
percent in 2010 compared to 1995 (Figure 1). Overall, residential, commercial and public
buildings present the largest energy savings potential in the country, followed by industry
and transport, all with several benefits. For households, greater energy efficiency helps to
save on monthly expenses and improves quality of life; for municipalities, energy efficiency
reduces the cost of transport, utilities, waste management, and the heating and cooling of
public buildings; for industry, energy efficiency helps reduce costs and makes enterprises
more competitive, provides opportunities to replace old equipment and modernize
production, and meets demands of export markets. In the household sector, as opposed to the
transport sector, the technological solutions needed for a lower carbon society are already
available and in use in the developed and developing world.
26 ODEX is the index used in the ODYSSEE-MURE project supported by the European Commission to
measure the energy efficiency progress by main sector (industry, transport, households) and for the whole
economy (all final consumers). A decrease in the index indicated higher energy efficiency.


﻿ANNEX C                                              54
Figure 1: Croatia: Energy Efficiency Index ODEX:
All sectors between 1995 and 2010
(Index Base=100)
105
Households
100
95
so
75
70
1M95. 1M9G. 1M97. 1SS9. 199. 2000. 2001. 2002. 2003. 2004. 2005. 200G. 2007. 2008. 200. 2010.
Source: Energy Institute Hrvoje Pozar


﻿55                                ANNEX D
Annex D. List of Persons Met
Government of Croatia
Ministry of the Economy, Government of Croatia
Ms. Kristina Celic, Director, Sector for Energy
Mr. Igor Raguzin, Head, Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency
Mr. Marijan Hohnjec, ex- Ministry of Economy Staff
Ministry of Construction and Physical Planning
Ms. Ana Pavicic-Kaselj, Minister
Ms. Tea Kelsiver, Advisor within the Minister's Office
Mr. Damir Hajar, Advisor within the Minister's Office
Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (Hrvatska Energetska Regulatorna Agencija HERA)
Mr. Tomislav Jurekovic, President of the Board of Commissioners
Mr. Mico Klepo, Director, Thermal Energy Division
Mr. Dalibor Pudic, Member of the Board of Commissioners
Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund
Ms. Irena Dubravec, Head of Department for Promotion, Implementation and Analysis of Rational
Energy Management
Ms. Marija Sculac Domac, Head of Service for Energy Efficiency and Use of Renewable Energy
Sources
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d. (HEP)
Mr. Zlatko Koracevic, President of the Management Board
Mr. Ivan Matasic, Member of the Management Board for Financial affairs
HEP Energy Services Company (ESCO)
Ms. Vasta Zanki, Director
Ms. Jasmina Fanjek
HEP Toplinarstvo (District Heating) Zagreb
Mr. Robert Krklec, Manager
Mr. Robert Vuk, Director
Mr. Zdravko Zajec, Assistant Director
HEP Toplinarstvo (District Heating) Osijek
Mr. Ivica Mihaljevic, General Manager
Mr. Zlatko Markovic, Assistant Director, Production
Ms. Lea Fadljevic, Head, Finance
Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak
HBOR)
Mr. Josip Pavkovic, Head and Infrastructure and Environmental Protection Unit/Industry
Department/Credit Division


﻿ANNEX D                                  56
Mr. Hrvoje Sucic, Project Manager, Renewable Energy Resources Project; hrvoje.Sucic(a,hbor.hr
SITE VISITS
Novigrad City Administration
Ms. Sandra Rugani Kukuljan
Ms. Vanja Gori&ki
Solin City Administration
Mr. Miroslav Miskovic
Rovinj City Administration
Mr. Ando Saina
Lika Energo Eko, (Biomass co-generation project), Udbina
Mr. Zeljko Lovrak, Director
Koncar, Power Plant and Electric Traction Engineering Inc (Wind Power Facility), Dugo Polie (Split)
Ms. Alenka Dejdar, Project Manager
Elementary and Secondary Schools, Dugo Resa, Karlovac County
Mr. Zeljko Sancic, Head, County Office of Education
Ms. Sanja Ferkula, Principal, Elementary School
Mr. Nikola Mriljak, Principal, Secondary SchoolMs. Marija Medic and Ms. Draxenka Sila Ljubenko,
County Office Representatives
Elementary School, Ljudevit Gaj, Krapinsko
Ms. Ljubica Ljubicic, Principal
Elementary School. Tmovec, Varazdinska
Ms. Radmila Sacic, Principal
Milivoj Medveden Meat Industry, Krasic
Mr. Milivoj Medveden, Director
Mr. Krunoslav Sokolic, Food Safety Manager
World Bank
World Bank, Washington DC
Peter Johansen, Senior Energy Specialist, Task Team Leader, Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy Resources Project
Pekka Kalevi Sa/minen, Senior Energy Specialist, Task Team Leader of District Heating Project
World Bank, Croatia Office, Zagreb
Hongioo Hahm, Country Manager
Natasa Vetma, Senior Operations Officer


﻿57                              ANNEX E
Annex E. Borrower Comments
From:        Sui6 Hrvoje <hsucic@hbor.hr>
To:          "rjammi@worldbank.org" <rjammi@worldbank.org>, mgaarder(,worldbank.org
<mgaarder@worldbank.org>
Cc:          "lboranic@worldbank.org" <1boranic@worldbank.org>, Tankovi6 Harun <htankovic@hbor.hr>,
Koli6 Marijana <mkolic@hbor.hr>, Klju6ari6ek Nikola <nkljucaricek@hbor.hr>,
Szabo Tibor <tszabo@hbor.hr>
Date:        06/26/2013 10:29 AM
Subject:     FW: CROATIA: Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy Resources, and District Heating
-Draft Project Performance Assessment Report
Dear Ms. Gaarder, Mr. Jammi
Thank You very much for sending the Draft of the PPAR. Regarding the Energy Efficiency
Project (IBRD-71980) and Renewable Energy Resource Project (TF-54973) the results of
this evaluation report are largely the same, in the implementation and performance part, as in
the previous Implementation Completion and Results Reports on year 2010 (ICRs).
For RER Project, concerning objectives of the project: "to help develop an economically and
environmentally sustainable market for RES in Croatia" and "to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions on a continuous basis by overcoming barriers to implementation of renewably
energy"; we can say that there has been some progress in relation to the year 2010.
Renewable Energy projects were being developed and more and more projects are
operational. This is also identified and recognized in PPA evaluation report so the risk that
the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is now rated Moderate instead
Significant.
In this moment, mid-2013, Croatia has about 210 MW of renewables in operation and about
200 MW in construction. It is still not close to the "20-20-20" goal (1600 MW of
renewables) but progress in relation to year 2010 is significant. We would like to think that
this is also partly the result of RER Project.


﻿ANNEX E                              58
Regarding RER Project, from 15 projects financing by CLF, 3 of them are operational:
Kondar wind - 16 MW, Eko (Otra stina) wind - 20 MW (will be these days) and Lika
Energo Eko biomass cogeneration - 1 MW. This is 37 MW in total and it is also certain
progress in relation to year 2010 and year 2012 contributing to RER Project outcome.
Sincerely,
Hrvoje SuiM
Voditelj projekta
Projekt obnovljivih izvora energije
HBOR
Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak
Strossmayerov trg 9
10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska
' +385 1 4597 8447 +385 1 4591 725* hsucic@hbor.hr, www.hbor.hr


