CIRCULATtG COPY
FILE            py          o BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DSK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1698-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT
EXPANSION PROJECT
November 20, 1975
IThis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURREINCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rates Effective September 29. 1975
Commercial Rate
Buying   US$1.00  = UrN$2.34
Selling US$1.00 = UrNT$2.37
Financial Rate
Buying   US$1.00  = UrN$2.68
Selling US$1.00 = UrN$2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AG        Advisory Group
AID       Agency for International Development
BROU      Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
CIPE      Center for Export Promotion
CB        Central Bank of Uruguay
DFT       Directorate of Foreign Trade
II)B      Inter-American Development Bank
IEPF      Industrial Export Promotion Fund
INPROME   Impuesto Minimo a la Productividad Media
LATU      Laboratoric de Analisis Technologico del Uruguay
LIBOR     London Interbank Official Rate
PBO       Planning and Budgeting Office
TAU       Technical Assistance Unit
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UN/GATT   United Nations/General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN FOR AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$35.0
million to help finance the proposed Industrial Development and Export
Expansion Project. The loan would have a term of 18 years, including 5 years
of grace, at an interest of 8-1/2% per annum. The proceeds of the proposed
loan would be made available to the Central Bank on the same terms and con-
ditions. The Central Bank would onlend the proceeds to commercial banks
which in turn would lend them to selected export enterprises for the following
purposes and on below specified terms: (a) loans in US dollars for imported
working capital items with a minimum maturity of six months at an annual
interest rate equivalent to the LIBOR rate (London Interbank Offered Rate
for deposits for 180 days) plus one-half percentage point; and (b) loans in
US dollars equivalent for imported capital goods for four to ten years includ-
ing one to three years of grace, at 8-1/2% per annum. The commercial banks
would lend the funds to enterprises for imported working capital items with
a spread of three percentage points; in the case of subloans for imported
capital goods a two-and-one-half percentage points spread would prevail. The
Government would assume the exchange risk, if any, between the US dollar and
the currencies used in Bank disbursements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uruguay in December 1974 and again in
March 1975. The resulting economic memorandum (498-UR) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on September 17, 1975. A summary. of Country Basic
Data is attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America, Uruguay's economic performance deteriorated steadily over the past
two decades. Development was thwarted by persistent inflation and periodic
balance of payments crises. This was the result of policies which favored
urban consumption and industrial import substitution at the expense of invest-
ment, exports and growth.
4.        An educated and predominantly urban population generated increasing
demands for high employment, better public sector services and social benefits.
The attempts to meet these demands took the form of fiscal, exchange rate and
price policies which resulted in a growing transfer of income away from the
resource rich agricultural and livestock sector. Simultaneously, the indus-
trial sector, stimulated by World War II shortages of consumer goods and
subsequently fostered through a deliberate import substitution cum protection



policy, grew at a rapid pace (about 8% annually during 1945-57) and provided
increased employment.
5.        In the 1958-67 decade, however, total output levelled off.   Agri-
cultural production, productivity and exports declined. Moreover, industrial
import substitution possibilities in the small domestic market were largely
exhausted. Unemployment rose sharply. Attempts by the Government to main-
tain per capita real income and consumption levels through price controls,
liberal wage readjustments, over-valued exchange rate and expansionary
credit policies, resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight
and serious misallocation of resources. Increased government intervention
curtailing private initiative depressed domestic incomes and demand and,
after 1970, political and social unrest marked by terrorism and labor strife,
discouraged savings and investment and dampened any initiative to expand
output and exports.
6.        The dramatic changes in the world economy which began in late
1973 had a staggering impact on the debilitated Uruguayan economy. The
three-fold increase in the price of imported oil (upon which the country is
totally dependent), followed by substantial increases in other import prices
and culminating in the closure of the EEC to meat imports brought the country
to the brink of economic disaster. The terms of trade loss produced by these
developments was equivalent to 2.2% of Gross Domestic Income (GDY) and resulted
in a sharp turnabout in the balance of payments--from a current account surplus
of US$37 million and net reserve gain of US$66 million in 1973 when beef and
wool prices were at historic highs, to a current account deficit of US$105
million and net reserve loss of US$58 million in 1974 (despite substantial
external borrowing). Furthermore, a severe fiscal problem developed. In an
effort to sustain real income levels, budgetary subsidies for basic imports
were increased while import levies were reduced, producing a fiscal deficit
equivalent to 30% of expenditures in 1974. The fiscal deficit, inadequate
monetary management and a wage and price policy which generated a wage-price
spiral by attempting to maintain incomes of producers and consumers in the
face of declining GDY, pushed domestic inflation beyond 100% in 1974.
7.        The economic crisis jolted the Government into recognizing the
urgency for a fundamental reorientation of economic policy towards relative
price stability and growth. A new economic team was installed in July 1974
and, after a period of consolidating support for its views, began introducing
a major economic reform program. The program is not only aimed at overcoming
the current economic problems, but also at repairing the damage inflicted on
the productive sectors by decades of excessive government intervention and
isolationist economic policies.
8.        The main thrust of the program is the liberalization of domestic
prices and of the foreign trade and payments systems designed to improve
resource allocation and productive efficiency. Substantial progress towards
this goal has already been made. Frequent exchange rate adjustments during
Lhe second half of 1974 and early 1975 (minidevaluations) have maintained a
realistic relationship of the peso to other currencies for commercial trans-
actions, thus stimulating exports, and the financial foreign exchange market



- 3 -
has been completely freed from all forms of restriction and intervention.
Indexing of medium- and long-term financial instruments is being broadened,
and loan and deposit interest rates of financial institutions (including the
introduction of dollar denominated public and private obligations) have been
raised to levels which should stimulate financial savings, contain the
demand for credit and allocate real resources more efficiently.
9.        An Industrial Promotion Law was approved in 1974, creating the
basis for stimulating capital investments through credit assistance and tax
relief. A new Foreign Investment Law, designed to operate in conjunction
with the Industrial Promotion Law, accords foreign investments approximately
the same treatment as domestic investments, plus quite liberal profit
remittance provisions. Making full use of its advantageous geographical
location close to the major markets of Brazil and Argentina--which have a
combined population 50 times larger than its own--Uruguay has signed favor-
able trade agreements that should greatly encourage the export of manufactures
to these countries.
10.       The Government has also taken a number of positive steps to free
the economy from excessive direct government intervention, such as the
removal of quotas on raw materials imports, reduction of high import sur-
charges, elimination of prior import deposits for goods to be processed and
re-exported (plus reductions of prior deposits on other imports), an easing
of prescribed foreign financing requirements on imports, and elimination of
price controls on all but a limited group of basic consumption items. Also,
the authorities are rationalizing the tax system, eliminating a large number
of low yielding taxes and shifting the revenue base from import and export
taxes to taxes on imputed agricultural income (IMPROME) and on value-added.
Tax credit rebates (reintegros) are being selectively granted to non-tradi-
tional exports, and the export taxes for wool and beef have been considerably
reduced to offset the fall in world prices for these products. While progress
is being made on practically all economic fronts, in some areas the Government
is still being constrained by the weak balance-of-payments, inflation, unem-
ployment and the fiscal problem. As progress is made in the economic reform
program, it should be possible to intensify the liberalization drive.
11.       Perhaps the most significant indication of the Government's new
economic policies is the fact that it has recently concluded a Stand-by
Agreement with the LMF. The monetary and fiscal programs incorporated in
this agreement should result in considerably improved price, fiscal and
balance-of-payments performance in 1975. Substantial progress has already
been made in stabilizing the economy as evidenced by reduction in the rate
of inflation. Thus, in the first eight months of 1975 the cost of living
index rose 32.6% compared with 50.7% and 68.8% in the corresponding periods
of 1974 and 1973, respectively.
Development Strategy and Prospects
12.       The Government's revised development strategy is one of fostering
capital accumulation in the private sector and supporting this further by



- 4 -
using public sector funds supplied through financial intermediaries to accel-
erate the growth of private sector production. Viewed as an intuitive and
pragmatic application of a strategy of rapid growth and increased employment,
it appears sound. Moreover, it has worked well in the past, particularly
during the 1940 decade. The Government's stated priority objectives are:
sustained growth with financial stability through the expansion and diversi-
fication of exports, increased employment and reduced underemployment, and
reactivated capital and money markets in order to finance increased private
sector activity and foreign commerce.
13.       While, in view of the disappointing performance over the past two
decades, much more in terms of sustained accomplishments will be necessary to
reactivate the economy, the response of the private sector so far has been
quite encouraging. As a result of the Government's export oriented policies
in the first seven months of 1975 non-traditional exports rose by about one-
fourth to US$100 million over the corresponding period of 1974. The increased
export activity has led to a revival of crop and industrial production, the
latter showing the most significant increase in fifteen years. This and the
country's resource base presage well for Uruguay's medium- and long-term pros-
pects. For an export-led growth strategy, Uruguay has certain advantages--a
highly skilled and well-educated labor force, a strategic location between
the large and expanding markets of Southern Brazil and Buenos Aires, an
adequate transport infrastructure to both markets, ease of long distance ocean
transport for both imports and exports through the port city of Montevideo and
a distinct natural resource advantage in the intensive and extensive exploita-
tion of export-oriented agricultural production, especially beef and wool, and
in the manufacture of leather and textile goods. There is a largely untapped
export potential in crop agriculture, food and fruit processing, fish
products, nonmetallic mineral products (cement, glass, ceramic wares and
tile), granite blocks and slabs, and wood pulp from natural and cultivated
forests, principally eucalyptus. In addition, Uruguay's capital and money
markets were among the most advanced in Latin America during the 1940s.
As confidence in the country's economic management is regained and the
Government continues to make progress towards establishing positive real
rates of interest throughout the economy, it should be possible to reactivate
these markets.
14.       The successful implementation of the Government's stabilization
and economic reform program, however, will not be easy. The program will
have to be carried out within the context of a generally depressed world
economy, exacerbated in Uruguay's case by adverse near-term price and market-
ing prospects for its principal exports (beef and wool). Nevertheless, given
the Government's strong determination to improve economic conditions in
Uruguay, with substantial external assistance forthcoming, it should be
possible to implement the program successfully.
15.       With a recovery of Uruguay's principal exports and an expansion of
non-traditional exports, GDP growth could be gradually accelerated to an
annual average of 4.0% during 1975-80. This would be a marked improvement
over the 1.4% annual growth rate of the preceding five years and would provide



-5-
for rising employment. The growth pattern would require domestic savings to
increase from their depressed level of about 8% of GDP in 1974 to about 12%
in 1980. The implied marginal savings effort would partly result from an
improvement in Uruguay's terms of trade expected later in the decade.
16.       Assuming the reopening of the EEC market and an upswing in the
prices of beef and wool, exports may increase more rapidly than imports in
the latter part of the period 1975-80. Nevertheless, because of unfavorable
near-term prospects and the heavy import requirements associated with more
rapid GDP growth and industrial rehabilitation both the trade and current
account deficit can be expected to widen in 1975. While in 1976 these
deficits would remain fairly high, they would start declining. By 1980,
exports and imports would be approximately in balance and, as a result, the
current account deficit would be relatively small. The deficit could
reasonably be covered by medium- and long-term capital inflows, provided
satisfactory economic policies continue.
17.       As of December 31, 1974, Uruguay's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt repayable in foreign currency was estimated at US$559 million.
The Bank share in the debt was 13%. External debt is expected to increase
substantially (by about 12%) in 1975 due to the need to finance the balance-
of-payments gap. Thereafter, and in line with the expected improvements in
export performance and the ongoing efforts of the Government to improve the
country's external debt structure, external public debt should grow at a
more moderate rate (about 9% annually). The debt service ratio was 30% in
1973, 29% in 1974, and is expected to climb to 41% in 1975. The Bank share
in the debt service was 7.7% in 1973, 7.8% in 1974, and it is expected to
decline to 4.7% in 1975. The high debt ratio in 1975 is largely a reflection
of a poor term-structure rather than an absolute size of the debt; Uruguay
has sufficient foreign exchange reserves (equivalent to about twelve-months'
imports) and should have no difficulties in meeting its external debt obliga-
t.ions during 1975. Debt service should decline to about 23% and 16% of exports
of goods and nonfactor services by 1976 and 1980, respectively, if required
medium-and long-term external credits can be mobilized to improve the country's
debt structure. In this context, Uruguay has already contracted new long-term
external loans with the Bank, IDB, AID, the Government of South Africa and a
US$130 million seven-year Eurodollar Loan was recently obtained from a group
of US, Canadian and European private banks.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
18.       Uruguay has received US$155.2 million (net of cancellations) in Bank
loans. As of September 30, 1975, the Bank held US$73.9 million, including
US$4.0 million undisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance to Uruguay
(11 loans in total) has been 53% for power, 35% for livestock and 12% for
transport. Execution of Bank-financed projects has, on the whole, been satis-
factory. So far, IFC has not made any investments in Uruguay. Annex II
contains a suumary of Bank loans as of September 30, 1975, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.



- 6 -
19.       The FY 76 program includes the recently approved Fifth Livestock
Development Project and the proposed industrial development and export
expansion project. In addition, work is underway on power and agricultural
diversification projects for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
20.       In lending to Uruguay, the Bank tries to assist the Government in
achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and complementary.
One objective is to bring about a recovery of the economy by supporting
programs leading to increased output, income and employment. A second objec-
tive is to help Uruguay increase and diversify its export earnings. A third
objective is to encourage institutional improvements in the management of
the economy, particularly in the formulation and implementation of sectoral
policies. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external resources
to complement Uruguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds for
maintaining an adequate level of investment in a framework of sound domestic
finances and a viable balance of payments.
21.       While the last objective primarily influences the size of the Bank
program in Uruguay, the other three jointly determine its structure. The
industrial development and export expansion project is designed to support
the Government's efforts to rehabilitate the industrial sector and to expand
manufactured exports in order to encourage sustained economic growth, rising
income and employment. In this context, emphasis would be given to estab-
lishing channels of long-term finance and to strengthening export promotion
agencies. Bank lending for agriculture is aimed at increasing crop produc-
tion to assist Uruguay in achieving self-sufficiency in grains and in increas-
ing and diversifying its export earnings. Lastly, Bank assistance for power
is designed to help the country meet its growing power demand, while helping
to increase the reliance on local energy sources.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Employment and Structure
22.       The importance of the industrial sector to the Uruguayan economy
may be readily gleaned from the fact that as far back as the late 1950's it
provided employment for nearly two-fifths of the labor force. Uruguay's
highly trained and skilled labor force had grown to rely on the sector for
employment opportunities. However, the failure of the sector to continue
even modest growth during most of the 1960's and the erratic progress in
recent years has resulted in a shrinkage of employment opportunities.
According to latest data, employment in manufacturing has dropped to less
than one-third of the labor force. This has led to serious unemployment
of industrial workers in the Montevideo area, where most of industry is
located, which in 1973 was estimated at some 8.5%. This constituted an
increase of almost 75% over the level recorded in 1970. The revival of
industrial production in 1974 and since appears to have somewhat mitigated



- 7 -
the situation. A survey conducted by the Government's Planning and Budgeting
Office in February 1975 observes that the level of unemployment among indus-
trial workers in the Montevideo area has declined to under 7% and working
hours in manufacturing increased.
23.       The industrial sector's importance as a source of employment stems
from its generally labor intensive structure. The sector consists of about
1,700 enterprises, most of them small employing between 50 and 100 persons.
Manufacturing accounts for about 23% of GDP. In terms of total value of
output, the most important branches are: food processing (22.5%), beverages
(11.1%), textiles (10.3%), nonmetallic minerals (7.8%), chemicals (6.6%) and
transport equipment (6.5%).
Exporting Industries
24.       Several industries have already grasped selective export oppor-
tunities. These include manufacturers of leather apparel, shoes, leather
accessories (handbags, belts, billfolds, etc.), finished leather, wool yarn,
textiles, clothing, tires, auto parts, cement, fertilizer, prepared foods
and ceramic tile. The proportion of output flowing to exports from these
industries varies widely, ranging from about 95% of total production in the
case of leather clothing and accessories to less than 5% in the case of
cotton and synthetic textiles. As a consequence of even these modest efforts,
the contribution of manufactures to total commodity exports increased from
11% in 1965 to 26% in 1974.
Manufactured Exports, 1965-74
(in millions of Current US dollars)
Product Groups                              1965     1972     1974
Tanned and Finished Leather                           5.7     19.3      22.7
Leather Clothing, Shoes and Articles                    -      4.4      19.3
Yarns, Textiles and Clothing                          2.7      3.1      11.7
Tires and Rubber Products                             0.6      0.9       5.3
Chemicals and Fertilizers                             0.4      1.7       5.1
Auto Parts                                              -      0.5       4.5
Other Manufactures                                   11.8     10.7      30.5
Total Manufactures                                   21.0     40.6      99.2
Total Export of Goods:                              191.2    214.1     382.2
Source: Bank of the Republic



-8-
The Export Drive
25.       The Government is fully cognizant of the important role that indus-
trial exports must play in the revival of economic growth and is providing
a vast assortment of encouraging measures. In order to achieve the GDP
growth target of 4.0% during 1975-80, exports will have to increase from 12%
of GDP in 1974 to 17% of GDP by 1980. This increase subsumes a substantial
expansion of non-traditional exports, particularly manufactures. The target
is ambitious but within the possibilities of the Uruguayan economy, provided
sound economic policies are continued. It entails that manufactures achieve
an average growth rate of about 23% per annum in current prices during 1975-
80 (about 15% in constant prices). Given the present relatively low base
and that manufactured exports rose by 69% in 1973 and 122% in 1974, the
attainment of this target appears feasible. The neighboring countries offer,
through trade concessions established by the Latin America Free Trade
Association (LAFTA) and bilateral arrangements, an opportunity for Uruguay
to expand exports of a number of intermediate goods. Moreover, Uruguay has
made a late but significant start (in the form of leather and textile goods)
of exporting to markets in the industrial countries which import items with
relatively large labor inputs. Further export opportunities exist in these
markets as Uruguayan manufactured exports at present account for considerably
less than 1% of such imports by the US and Europe.
Export Industry Prospects and Requirements
26.       While the Government's new export-oriented economic policies augur
well for the future of manufactured exports, several constraints will still
need to be removed if the export drive is to be successful. The most impor-
tant among these are: (a) inadequacy of imported raw materials and shortage
of short-term credit; (b) lack of medium- and long-term credit to finance the
renovation and expansion of plant capacity; and (c) deficient institutional
support for the promotion of exports and excessive protection of domestic
industries.
27.       The revitalization of manufacturing industry and its reorientation
towards export markets will require large imports of raw materials and capital
goods. While in most instances imports of capital goods can be postponed for
some time because of unused capacity, the need for imported raw materials is
immediate. Although the Government's export development program is based
on the production of goods with a high domestic value added, the low level
of raw material imports that has prevailed over the past years and the
quality standards of new export markets will require a higher level of
permanent imported working capital items in the inclustrial sector. As
evidence of this need and consistent with the Government's import liberaliza-
tion program, in 1975 imports of intermediate goods and raw materials (exclu-
ding petroleum and derivates) are projected to total $260 million compared
with $143 million in 1973 (an increase of about 82%). These imports include
a wide spectrum of raw materials, spare parts and semifinished goods.
28.       Reasonably full utilization of productive capacities of potential
export industries is likely to continue or even accentuate the above trend



- 9 -
of increasing imports. A survey of capacity utilization carried out by the
Planning and Budgeting Office in May 1975 shows that industries which have
already reoriented their output to export markets, although rapidly approach-
ing capacity utilization, could expand output by means of additional shifts
provided they have adequate supplies of imported raw materials. Over the
medium-term their need for capital investments is also likely to rise sub-
stantially if they are successful in export sales. The second group of
industries consists of metal fabrication, food canning, fertilizer mixing and
cotton textiles. These suffered from overexpansions at the outset and have
been subject to growing obsolecence; they supply the domestic market and
export a small fraction of their output. With their present equipment and
sufficient imported inputs they could make a significant contribution to the
export drive. Over the near- to medium-term they will also require imported
equipment for renovation and modernization to sustain exports.
Unutilized Capacity in Selected Industry Sub-Groups, May 1975
Approximate
Percent
of GDP      Percent of Unutilized Capacity
1974     0-10   11-20   21-30  31-40  41-50
Ceramics and decorative tile            0.4      x
Brick and tile                          0.3      x
Leather handbags and articles            1.0     x
Leather clothing                        3.0               x
Shoes                                   2.5               x
Wool yarn and cloth                     3.5               x
Vehicle tires                            2.0              x
Chemical products                        1.0                      x
Zippers and fasteners                   0.1                               x
Cotton and synthetic textiles            4.0                              x
Leather tanning and finishing            2.5                              x
Stone quarrying and working              0.1                              x
Fertilizers                              1.5                                    x
Canned fruits and vegetables             1.0                                    x
Metal fabrication and auto parts         3.0                                    x
Source: Survey conducted by Planning and Budgeting Office in May 1975.
29.       The Government has already taken steps to increase the supply of
imported raw materials. It has reactivated the use of the "temporary admis-
sion system", an export promotion scheme, which permits imports of industrial



- 10 -
raw materials and intermediate products, free of taxes, with the condition
that they are processed and re-exported within a predetermined period of time
(Annex V). This scheme is effectively supervised by the Laboratory of Tech-
nological Analysis of the Ministry of Industry and Energy. With the improved
conditions for non-traditional exports emerging from the readjustment of exchange
rates and the beginning of trade liberalization measures in 1974, the growth of
"temporary admission" imports has accelerated markedly over the past two years,
from US$8.9 million in 1972 to US$22.1 million in 1974. On the basis of mid-
1975 data it is estimated that such imports will total US$32 million in 1975
and, in line with the expected growth of non-traditional exports, "temporary
admission" imports should be in the order of US$52 million in 1976. This
exceeds by about US$30 million the amount estimated when the new Government
program was put into effect. While the Government has made considerable
efforts to increase the supply of imported raw materials, severe limitations
are being imposed by the unfavorable near-term prospects for the country's
principal exports.
30.       The Government's policy and efforts to stimulate exports are rendered
more difficult by its simultaneous objective to place ceilings on the expan-
sion of commercial bank credit in line with its stabilization policy. This
has led to an increased shortage of working capital, particularly for covering
the foreign exchange cost of imported industrial inputs. Resolution of this
dilemma would be greatly helped by the provision of external resources in
support of the export drive.
31.       The previously mentioned survey by the Planning and Budgeting
Office also revealed capital goods import requirements of nearly US$43 million,
consisting of US$1.5 million for balancing equipment, US$16 million for plant
renovation and modernization and US$25 million for plant expansion of indus-
tries participating in the export drive (Annex 4 gives a brief description of
these industries). Years of economic stagnation and inflation inhibited
development of capital markets and medium- and long-term finance; this has
contributed to the deterioration of the financial structure of most firms.
Moreover, there is no public or private development finance company in Uruguay
to finance industrial renovation and expansion. Recently, however, AID
approved a US$5 million loan to help finance the importation of capital goods
for agro-industries and KfW is considering an addlitional loan for imported
equipment. While these loans should help in meeting part of the industries'
requirements for capital goods, the need still is such that unless additional
external resources are made available to enterprises on appropriate terms,
they will not be able to increase exports.
32.       In addition to the above, implementation of a successful export
drive will require a sound export promotion scheme. The Government is cog-
nizant of this need and the Directorate of Foreign Trade (DFT) of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance has already initiated a partial program of promotion of
non-traditional exports with assistance from the Inter-American Center for
Export Promotion (CIPE) and the UN/GATT Export Assistance Group. While as
a result of this action general marketing information and a few specific



- 11 -
market studies have become available, much more in terms of support to exporters
is necessary. The limited financial resources and insufficient technical
expertise have prevented DFT from playing an active role in this regard.
During negotiations the Government has stated that it plans to allocate addi-
tional resources to DFT starting in 1976. UNDP has also agreed in principle
to extend aid in this area, including the provision of experts to assist DFT
in the preparation of a master export promotion program. Moreover, the
Government proposes to formulate, with the assistance of consultants, a
comprehensive program for export expansion and diversification, including
the adoption of measures which are conducive to the development of exports,
before December 31, 1976 (Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement).
33.       The Government is aware that by and large Uruguayan industry must
become more efficient before it can compete successfully on world markets
and that the economy stands to gain if industry producing for the domestic
market is subjected to more competition. The Government's policy is to
encourage and even force greater efficiency. Recently, effective levels of
protection have been lowered by import liberalization measures. However,
import tariffs and other forms of protection are still high by most reasonable
standards and unless the Government persists in its effort to achieve selective
and general reductions, the goal of opening up the economy may prove elusive.
Furthermore, the Government's intentions regarding further policy measures
and a schedule of steps to lower effective protection would give enterprises
adequate time to adapt their productive structure to gradually increasing
levels of competition. To this end, the Government has agreed to prepare,
before the end of 1976, a study of the effective level of protection afforded
by Uruguay's tariff and non-tariff barriers on imports of intermediate and
finished manufactured goods and, on the basis of its recommendations, prepare
and carry out a plan of action for gradually increasing the levels of com-
petitiveness of Uruguay's industry in world markets. (Section 7.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
The Bank's Approach
34.       The Bank's approach to industry in Uruguay would be to assist
the Government in its efforts to reactivate industrial output through the
expansion of manufactured exports. Rising industrial production would
encourage increased employment, while expanded manufactured exports would
contribute to diversifying export earnings and to making the balance of pay-
ments less vulnerable to fluctuations in world demand and prices for beef
and wool. In view of the resource gap, and in support of the Government's
economic liberalization program, the Bank would assist in financing incre-
ments to the imported working capital requirements and renovation and expan-
sion of plant capacity of industrial exporting enterprises. Furthermore, the
Bank would contribute to setting up a financial mechanism that would:
(a) finance the cost of importing raw materials; and (b) provide medium-
and long-term credit to finance plant renovation, modernization and expansion.
In so doing, the Bank would contribute to reactivating the financial market
by bringing to it interest rates similar to those prevailing in major financ-
ial centers around the world and at the same time help improve the financial



- 12 -
structure of exporting enterprises. Lastly, the Bank would also contribute
to the formulation of sound sectoral policies and to the strengthening of
public sector agencies responsible for evaluation of industrial projects
and export promotion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project would be the first Bank operation in the
industrial sector in Uruguay. In the past, external financing for industry
was mostly provided by suppliers and bilateral credits and to a limited extent
by multilateral sources such as the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
36.       The project was identified in March 1975.   Two preparatory missions
visited Uruguay in April and May 1975, and were followed by an appraisal
mission in June-July 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 4 to November 7, 1975. The main features of the loan and project
are summarized in Annex III.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would support a lending program to industrial
export enterprises to finance the cost of imported working capital and
machinery and equipment. The project would have three components, namely:
an imported working capital component of US$24.5 million, a medium- and
long-term investment financing component of US$10 million and a technical
assistance component of US$0.5 million.
38.       Imported Working Capital Component.   US$24.5 million or 70% of the
proposed loan would take the form of credits denominated in US dollars to
selected export enterprises to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts,
other components and packing materials entering into the manufacture of non-
traditional exports under the regime of "temporary admission." (Section 4.01
of the Loan Agreement). A revolving line of credit would be established in
the Central Bank for this purpose (Section 3.03 (g) of the Loan Agreement)
and repayments of principal and interest not required to service the Bank
Loan would be relent for additional "temporary admission" imports. This
feature would enable the Government to maintain a high level of "temporary
admission" imports, which is considered necessary for a successful export
drive. In line with the expected progress in the import liberalization pro-
gram, the regime of "temporary admissions" is expected to terminate in about
five years and, hence, it is planned that the proposed Bank supported credit
line would only be maintained for a maximum period of five years from the
date of loan effectiveness, (Section 3.03 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement).
After this time, funds accumulated from tthe financing of "temporary admissions"
would be allocated to finance plant renovation and expansion of industrial
export enterprises.



- 13 -
39.       Medium- and Long-Term Investment Financing Component.    US$10 million
or 28.6% of the proposed loan would finance medium- and long-term credits to
industrial export enterprises for the importation of machinery and equipment
in connection with specific investment plans. While the aforementioned
survey (the survey of the Planning and Budgeting Office of May 1975) esti-
mated the immediate foreign exchange needs for plant renovation and expansion
at about US$43 million (paragraph 31), the proposed amount of US$10 million
is considered consistent with the still incipient technical capabilities of
the unit that would be responsible for the appraisal of subprojects (para-
graph 51) and the availability -- albeit with limited procurement flexibility--
of other external credit lines.
40.       To complement medium- and long-term credits that would be financed
with the proceeds of the proposed loan and to finance local currency costs
related to project implementation and start up, purchase of locally manufac-
tured machinery and equipment, industrial premises and permanent working
capital, the Government would contribute Ur$ 7.0 million (US$2.5 million
equivalent) (paragraph 57). The requirement for local currency financing,
however, would be reviewed periodically during the commitment period of the
proposed loan. During negotiations the Government has given assurances that
it will make additional contributions as needs arise and that, as a condition
of effectiveness, it would initially contribute Ur$1.4 million (US$0.5 million
equivalent). (Section 9.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement).
41.       Technical Assistance Component.   US$0.5 million or 1.4% of the
proposed loan would finance technical assistance_consisting of: (a) experts
and consultants on short-terma             to provide the technical un-t th-at"
would be r'esponsi'blef f-the-appraisar-of-i'd--triai subprojects-(paragraph
56) special expertise in connection with the evaluation of specific proposals,
and to undertake feasibility, marketing and sectoria"l studies;(b) experts to
complement the assistance planned by UNDP to the Directorate of Foreign Trade
in the formulation of a comprehensive export promotion program; and (c) con-
sultants to undertake specific studies to assist the Government in relation
to the economic liberalization program and the reduction of the effective
level of protection to domestic industries.
Administration of the Project
42.       To carry out the project the Central Bank (CB) would open a special
account (the Industrial Export Promotion Funid (IEPF)), in which there would
be four s   idia-.yaccounts:   AcotX"(?            rYadmission loans),
Account "B" (medium- and long-term loans in foreign exchange for renovation
and expansion of plant capacity), Account "C" (medium- and long-term loans
in local currency for renovation and expansion of plant capacity) and
Account "D" (technical assistance). (Section 3.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement).
CB would be the depository of all funds under the project. In this capacity,
it would handle all financial transactions and would submit disbursement



- 14 -
applications to the Bank. The Industrial Export Promotion Fund would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of each fiscal
year.
43.       The commercial banks, with the technical support of Laboratory of
Technological Analysis (LATU) of the Ministry of Industry and Energy, would
handle sub-loans for "temporary admission" imports. An exporting enter-
prise interested in obtaining financing for imported working capital under
the "temporary admission" regime would request LATU authorization to so import.
Upon LATU's approval, the enterprise would arrange a US dollar loan with a
commercial bank of its choice to pay for the import. Once the import takes
place and the foreign supplier is paid, the commercial bank would apply to
the Industrial Export Promotion Fund (IEPF) for a rediscount. To that end,
it would furnish IEPF with: (a) a properly endorsed debt instrument; (b) a
copy of the official resolution authorizing the "temporary admission" import;
(c) import shipping documents; and (d) evidence of payment to the foreign
supplier. Once the operation is approved, IEPF would credit the commercial
bank's foreign exchange account in the Central Bank with the amount of the
debt instrument.
44.       A Coordinating Committee composed of a representative each from
the Central Bank, who would act as Chairman, the Ministry of Industry and
Energy, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Planning and Budgeting
Office, would be responsible for the administration of medium- and long-term
subloans for renovation and expansion of plant capacity. The Committee
would receive technical support from the Advisory Group (AG) of the Ministry
of Iiindustry and Energy in the evaluation and supervision of subloans. An
export enterprise seeking this type of fTHahcing would submit a project
proposal to a commercial bank of its choice. The commercial bank would
ensure that the proposal meets the eligibility criteria agreed upon with
the Bank (paragraph 45 below), and would assess the financial soundness and
credit risk of the project and its sponsor and, if satisfied, would present
the proposal to AG.  AG would appraise the technical, economic and financial
viability of the project and present an appraisal report to tH6-C6rdinating
Committee recommending action.   Upon approval by theC6ordinatinig C'ommittee,
the Industrial Export Promotion Fund would make the funds available to the
commercial bank for relending to export enterprises.
45.       Projects eligible for financing would be those that (a) create
new capacity or rehabilitate existing capacity for the production of non-
traditional exports (defined as all exports with the exception of unprocessed
beef and mutton, crude and semi-processed hides, greasy wool, unprocessed
grains, and in addition, automobile assembly operations); (b) generate enough
net foreign exchange earnings to repay the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment, machinery, and permanent working capital prior to the fourth
quarter of the estimated economic life of the investment project or seven
years, whichever is lower; and (c) export at least 40% annually of their
output after the second year of operation. Each application for subloans



- 15 -
above US$200,000 would have to be supported by a detailed project appraisal,
including internal financial and economic rates of return calculations. As
the thrust of the Government's liberalization policies is towards reactivating
the private sector, financing would not be available to public enterprises.
(Sections 5.03 and 1.02 (i) of the Loan Agreement).
46.       The Planning and Budgeting Office (PBO) would be responsible for
administering all technical assistance under the project. PBO would approve
contracts for consultants and/or studies on the basis of individual proposals,
which would include detailed terms of references, after receiving prior Bank
approval. (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Resources and Procedures of the Industrial Export Promotion Fund (IEPF)
47.       The following resources would be available to IEPF:    (a) the
proceeds of the proposed loan; (b) the funds made available by the Government
(an initial contribution of US$2.7 million equivalent); (c) the recently
approved AID loan of US$5 million; (d) any funds made available in the future
by the Government and external lenders; and (e) repayments and interest from
IEPF's lending operations.
48.       An operating manual, acceptable to the Bank, would regulate the
administration-of-the resources of the Industrial Export Promotion Fund
(IEPF), and would describe, inter alia, the following: (a) activities eli-
gible for financing; (b) sources and uses of resources; (c) duties and
responsibilities of the Central Bank; (d) duties and responsibilities of the
Coordinating Committee; (e) duties and responsibilities of the Laboratory
of Analysis and Testing; (f) duties and responsibilities of the Advisory
Group; (g) duties and responsibilities of the commercial banks; and (h) methods
of loan processing, loan approval and supervision, and terms and conditions of
loans (Annex VI gives a brief description of the contents of the operating
manual). The issuance of the operating manual is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan. (Section 9.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
The Laboratory of Technological Analysis
49.       The Laboratory of Technological Analysis of Uruguay (LATU) is a
semi-public organization in the Ministry of Industry and Energy created under
Law 13640 of December 26, 1967. LATU is managed by a Board of Directors
represented by several members of the industrial community, a President, who
is a delegate from the Ministry of Industry and Energy, and a Secretary, who
is a delegate irom the Chamber of Industries. The Chamber is a private in-
stitution that represents industries nation-wide.
50. V). LATU is funded entirely out of the payments received from private
enterprises for its services. For these purposes it has highly qualified
staff, equipment and facilities.
The Advisory Group
51.       Established in the Ministry of Industry and Energy under the Indus-
trial Promotion Law of 1974 to assess the eligibility of industrial projects



- 16 -
for special credit assistance and tax exemptions, the Advisory Group (AG) has
been effectively functioning since October 1974 and consists of three well
qualified industrial engineers. Although to carry out its functions AG can
call upon the technical expertise of all government agencies, in practice
it has almost exclusively relied on the support of the Technical Assistance
Unit (TAU) in the Ministry of Industry and Energy. Created in 1973 under
the Budget Law, TAU started operating only in April 1975 under a two-year
UNDP Cooperation Program designed to assist the Ministry of Industry in
setting up mechanisms to identify, evaluate, and promote industrial projects.
Until recently AG and TAU were neither hierarchically nor legally linked.
In light of the key operational role to be played by AG and the need to
ensure a reliable and expeditious evaluation and approval mechanism under
the proposed loan, at Bank request the Government has placed TAU under the
direct authority of AG.
52.       While with the support of UNDP TAU has improved substantially its
technical capabilities, it still lacks expertise in project supervision and
financial, marketing, and economic analysis. To help overcome this constraint
and to cope with the workload expected under the proposed loan and the
recently approved AID loan, the Government has agreed to expand TAU's present
staff (nine professionals, of which three are UNDP experts) and hire one
marketing specialist and two experienced financial analysts before any
sub-loan for plant renovation and expansion is submitted to the Bank for
approval. (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agrement). Finally, to limit personnel
turnover and ensure the hiring of highly qualified professionals, the Govern-
ment has indicated during negotiations that it will extend preferential salary
treatment to TAU's high level staff.
The Commercial Banks
53.       Confronted with slow economic growth, stagnant industrial develop-
ment, high inflation, strict Government regulations, and declining deposits,
Uruguay's commercial banking system has in recent years been struggling for
survival (Annex VII). To cope with this adverse environment, the commercial
banks have become risk averting and operationally conservative. To prevent
an overly stringent financial evaluation, and/or excessive collaterals, and
to motivate bankers to extend financing to export enterprises, special incen-
tives would be provided under the proposed loan. To that end, the Government
has agreed to: (a) exempt any transaction financed under the loan from the
8.2% tax on banking activities; this tax discriminated against the private
commercial banks as the state-owned Banco de la Republica did not have to
pay it; and (b) to exclude any transaction financecl under the loan from the
overall credit ceiling established by the central bank for the participating
banks; and, (c) to insure medium- and long-term loans to industrial enterprises
for fixed investment. (Sections 3.05 and 5.07 of the Loan Agreement). The
Government, with the assistance of AID and the Bank, is working on the es-
tablishment of an Industrial Credit Guarantee Fund by early 1976, to insure
up to 60% of medium-and long-term loans made by participating banks for
plant renovation and expansion (Annex VIII). The Fund's resources would be



- 17 -
provided and administered by the Central Bank. To help maintain an adequate
reserve loss coverage, a minimum fee of 2.5% on the guaranteed portion of the
loan, paid at once in pesos on the basis of the dollar exchange rate prevailing
on the commercial market at the time of the transaction, would be charged to
industrial enterprises benefitting from the scheme. The establishment of the
Fund would be a condition for submitting any subproject for Bank approval
under the medium- and long-term investment financing component of the pro-
posed project (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Commercial banks would need to be in good standing with the Central
Bank to participate under the project. Commercial banks would have to assist
the Advisory Group, when appropriate, in appraisal and supervision of sub-
projects. Eight commercial banks -- three foreign, and five local, including
the government-owned Bank of the Republic, have indicated willingness to
participate in the proposed arrangement.
Relending Terms and Conditions
55.       The proposed Bank loan to Uruguay would be for 18 years including
5 years of grace. The term of the loan reflects Uruguay's need to obtain
development finance on suitable terms, to improve its external debt profile
and to ease the debt service burden on the balance of payments (see paragraph
17). The proceeds of the loan would be passed on to the Central Bank (Indus-
trial Export Promotion Fund) on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Central
Bank would relend to the participating banks on terms intended to provide
them with an appropriate spread. Exporters would receive working capital
and investment loans from the commercial banks at realistic positive interest
rates and on terms appropriate for these purposes.
56.       Loans for "temporary admission" imports would be in US dollars
and would be extended for a minimum period of 180 days and a maximum period
of 395 days. The loans would finance up to 100% of the cost of imports
of raw materials and other intermediate inputs entering into the manufac-
turing of non-traditional exports under "temporary admission." The maximum
annual interest rate charged to sub-borrowers, payable in dollars, would be
3-1/2 percentage points above the LIBOR rate (London Interbank Offered Rate
for Deposits for 180 days) quoted as of 3 p.m. (London time) two business days
before the date of the sub-loan contract. The equivalent of the LIBOR rate
plus 1/2 of one percent would be retained by the Industrial Export Promotion
Fund (IEPF). The commercial bank would receive a maximum spread of 3%.
57.       Repayment of principal and interest would be withheld from the
proceeds of export sales. To this effect, at the time the commercial bank
would surrender the foreign exchange value of the export to the Central Bank,
it would compute the amounts that would be applied to the cancellation or
amortization of the subloan and to paying interest due to IEPF. The export-
ing firm would thus receive only the local currency equivalent of the remain-
ing foreign exchange proceeds. The commercial bank would, at the time of
credit approval, establish an amortization schedule compatible with the



- 18 -
enterprise's expected export program. Interest would only be paid at the
time of each principal repayment and would be calculated on the amount then
outstanding.
58.       Loans for renovation and expansion of plant capacity would finance
up to 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported machinery and equipment
of individual export-oriented projects. The loans would be expressed in
US dollar equivalents and be repayable over four to ten years, including
one to three years of grace. The interest rate to sub-borrowers would be
11% per annum of which 8-1/2% would cover the Bank interest rate, and 2-1/2%
would be the spread for the commercial banks. Repayments of principal and
interest by sub-borrowers would be made in pesos on the basis of the dollar
exchange rate prevailing on the commercial market at the time of each maturity.
Sub-loan repayments would be retained in a separate account in local currency
(Account "C") in the Industrial Export Promotion Fund and would be used only
to finance similar projects. Sub-loans in local currency (Account "C") would
be complementary to the ones provided in foreign exchange (Account "B") and
would be made on the same terms. To prevent a few relatively large projects
receiving a disproportionate share of the funds available to finance plant
renovation and expansion and to ensure that investors make a reasonable finan-
cial contribution the aggregate financial assistance for any project, both in
foreign and local currency, would not exceed 85% of total individual investment
cost or US$1.0 million equivalent, whichever is lower.   (Schedule 2A(b)(3)(ii)
of the Loan Agreement).
59.       In view of the Advisory Group's still limited project appraisal
capability, and to ensure adequate project appraisal review and technical
assistance by the Bank, sub-loans over US$200,000 would require the Bank's
prior approval. (Section 5.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). This limit would
be reviewed from time to time and would be increased as the appraisal capabi-
lity of the Advisory Group improves. With the average sub-loan expected to
amount to about US$350,000, some 15 export projects would be reviewed by the
Bank during the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.       For the imported working capital component of the project disburse-
ments would be made against the foreign exchange cost of imports required in
1975/76 by a wide range of exporting industries under the "temporary admission"
regime, with the exception of automobile assembly operations. In 1976 it is
estimated that these disbursements would finance about half of the projected
total "temporary admission" imports bill and as such would cover approximately
the incremental foreign exchange requirements generated during that year by
the Government's export diversification program. Since procurement for imports
to be financed under this loan component would deDend on the decision of many
enterprises for a large number of small items, international competitive bidding
would not be required. There would be no retroactive financing but goods
imported under licenses or letters of credit issued before the date of signing
but paid for after that date would be eligible for reimbursement. The Central



- 19 -
Bank would be responsible for collecting, through the commercial banking sys-
tem, invoices, evidence of shipment, and evidence that the foreign suppliers
have received payment. Such evidence would be forwarded to the Bank in support
of withdrawal applications when claiming reimbursements of loan funds. The
Central Bank would have to certify that it has not claimed financing for
these imports from any other bilateral or international development finance
institution. In the light of the present trends on temporary admission
imports, it is expected that this portion of the loan would be disbursed
within twelve months after loan signing.
61.       Procurement and disbursement procedures for the medium- and long-
term investment financing component of the project would be the same as under
standard DFC operations and would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of imported goods. On the basis of the applications received through June 30,
1975 by the Ministry of Industry and Energy under the Industrial Promotion
Law, and the Planning and Budgeting Office's survey of May 1975, this loan
component is expected to be fully committed within 24 to 30 months from the
date of loan effectiveness, and disbursements are expected to be carried
out within 30 to 36 months from that date.
62.       Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded to consultants
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland in accordance with Govern-
ment's practices, which are consistent with the guidelines on "The Uses of
Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers" issued in April 1974. Dis-
bursements for this purpose would be made against normal documentation which
would be submitted by the Planning and Budgeting Office through the Central
Bank. Technical assistance funds left unused upon commitment of the Bank
loan would be re-allocated for onlending to export enterprises for renovation
and expansion of plant capacity. All financial charges related to this por-
tion of the loan would be borne by the Government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       In addition to the specific features of the Loan Agreement which
are referred to in Parts III and IV above, the following additional condi-
tions of effectiveness have been included:
(i) that the Industrial Export Promotion Fund has been
established (Section 9.01 (a);



- 20 -
(ii) tthat the Coordinating Committee has been appointed
(Section 9.01 (b);
(iii) that the Operating Manual has been issued (Section
9.01 (c);
(iv)  that the Government's initial contribution to the
Industrial Export Promotion Fund has been made
(Section 9.01 (d).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November, 1975



ANlj,EX I
Page 1 of'                pages
CONMT DATA - U-RUONAT
anE                                                  POPULATION                                    gNNSITy
177,500   kmS 2.6i10                                                  (mid-1972)                       ..      P., Imaof arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Raference Countries
OR? MER CAPITA US8 (ATtAS   oASIS) /I                                            760 /a           800 La      1,300 ~j      3,670o
DEI9MAPHIC
Crudebir-th rate (per thousand)                                  22             21               30            22                bc1.3 ki
Crude death r.te (per thousand)                                   9             10/96 
Infat mrtality rate (per thousand live births)                   4.7             0               7920                            cd.LU.a
Lif  epec'tancy at birth (Fears)                               69 /6          70 If           62 ZA         68            73  h
Grss.e.o..     i, rae                                           141            .1.tf            2 2~f         2.0    ~     72
Population growth rate L]7                      ~~~~          ~~~~~1.5  1. 3    2.3   i       2.2 Li.
Population growth rate - urban                                  2.2              2                36                       6.2
Age etruoture- percat)
ii, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~9                                          28/              a9            3           231h /d
61.n   6               ~~~~~55        5   a      61.7
65 and ovr                                                      8             96                                        1.
Age dependenc   ratio                                           0.64          0 .              0:8                         0.  Od
Economic dependency ratio                                       1.0 Li        1                16            1.3           0.8
Urban population as peroent of total                             75 /j          78 L             76A     ~    100 /I         80 L
Panil,? plann,ing,  No. of anoeptors oumulative (thous.)         ...                                          193
Ro. of users (% of married womeen)            ..*.                                        1..7 
msLnymml
Total lbor fror   (thousands)                                1,000 /        1,100            3,000 /d        730        2,4.00
Percentage employed in agrcutue                                 OL            17 /419 /                       3          9 5
Percentage unemployed                                                  9       94               5  d4     701.           2.1. _
IN01M DISTRIBrtJION
P.re.__oT =.t a1income receiled by highest 5%              ..2                Ls            3OLrA,                     22-4L2
Percent ofnational jocose, rceived by highest 20%               ..71.                            57ZI        ~                 48 -!j
Percent o' national income receive   by lowest 20%              4.                                                             4 Lr.  .1 .
Percent ofa-nional innom   rece.ived by lnosat 4.0%            .                 1      1          3.4..11 L Lr
MISTIBIUTION OF LOND OWNERSHIP
% owneo by top 10% cf owners...
E -o-n-  by smalleot 10% of owners                               ..
RMALTH AND NUTRITION
Popultio0n_p_e_r physicin                                       880 Le         91.0           2,010 /      1,520           690
Population per nursing person                                 5,4.10         3,560           5,320  4i160                  210
Peoulatimn per hosfpital bed                                    190            160 /x           250          270           100
Per capita calorie oupply as % of requiremnts/                  115 /          107              102          103 9         120
Per capita protein supply, total (grmas per dayT/6              110 /4          96               66           63 Li         91
Of wthich, anmal and pulse                                     71 /          61.              32            34.           59
Death rate 1',, yeorc, /7                                       1.5 /4        1.3                3 /4        0.5 /,80.7
EDUCATION
Adj3uated /8 primary school enrollment ratio                    us5           118 /5   kg      219PLL-&      105 /a         98
Adjusted Imscondry achol enollment ratio                         37             56               29           1.7           87
Years of ochtling provided, first and second level               12            12               12            12            132
Vo-ationa erlmnt as8o           a.school enrollast               23             22 /433                        9            32
Adult liter:Cy rate%                                             90 4           91  ,j90 /4.x                 75 Lg.        99 41
;OUSfl9
Arverage No. of persons per room (urban)                        1.5            .. 4mm1.3               at &  2.9 'ad       0.9
Per cent of occupied uwits without piped water                   1.1 & M                        LO 1.0        20             3
Accesas to electricity (as % of total population)                78           ..               8as            87
Peaet of #u.. I populatio, connected to electri city            29 ZR         ..                30r
R.io~iv        per.1000 population                            285            507 /411.9L                    150 /4       327 /
Passe.nger cars Per -000 population                             4.1             42              19            82           232 /
Electric poser consumption (kwt P. c.)                         512            836 /4890/                   i,1.64./      3,1425 Z
Newsprint convuoption p.c. kg per pear                        .8.7&           7.4              5.7          10.4            35 L
Notso,  Figures rater either to the lat.at periods or to              account of aevircuote u       ti~eS          eaa      e
the latent years.     tatet pe-iodo refer in pr~inciple to            distrdbutim  by age md am    mf national paplatimna.
the years 1956-60 cr 1966-70; the latest years . in  rin              Protain etMaLrde (rwiequte) for all ee,antries as satab-
ciple tc 1960 and 1970.                                               Dishe  by MUD   oonami Reeareh Service poovide for a eininin
/4  Th. Per Capita GNP estimate is at market pricea for               alloonase of 60 Vzm   of total protein per dayr and 20 wrim    of
years  ther than 1960, calc.ated by the    -a convrsion           aml*al end Psclee protein, of whisk 10 pews abould be amiml
tacnholque as the 1912 World Rank Atlan.                         protein.   Thm. eteadards aea soewaat low.     than tbae of 75
/2 Avsraks number~ of daughters pe woman of reproductive              pam   of total protein and 23 gramn of anmlol Protein as en
.ag.                                                              averepe for the wasid, propoeed by lAO In the Third Wsrld Fooad
P4 pulntion growth rates are for the decades ening in               Survoy.
1960 and 1970.                                                    Sam studies have suggeted that crude death rates of dLildren
J4  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end -ovr to pepula-           eaeao 1 through . say be "aed as a first appruximatin iWdm of
tion of ages 1,5-61. for age dependency ratio end to labor        malnutrition.
toru  of ages 15-61 tor economic dpapndmacy ratio.            &   Pereatag     a erolled of morrompondLing population of school age
7AO refe    oe standards represet pbyaiological re-              as defined fw each soontry.
quirmeto for normal activilty and health, taking
/a   3972;    /b  1973;   /4   Excluding Feere Islands and GreenlIand;     /d  1971;    /a  1963-61.;   /f  1970-75;    /4  1969-70;
ZE   1969-71;    /4  1960-72;    /4  Definition not available;     /k  Populated centers which have definite urban     haracterietica
contributed by certain Public and municipal sereicee;      /4  City of Sinapre         a  Provincial capitals plus capital
city;   /n   1963;   /0  Acceptome as a poroentage of wamenlon reproductivoeg;             Retinate;    /4  Economicallyv active
population relate to persons 15-74. years of age;     /4  Households;    /4  19671    /t4 1968;   /4   Income recipient;
G overnment only;      /4  Nocaber on the register, not al.1 working in the country;    /x   1969;       1.961;   /z  1964.-66;
~as  Rate computed on population excluding teenaients afloat and non-locally domiciled military and civili an ervices personnel
and their dependents;    /*   Including overage students;     /m    15 years and over;    /a   Total, urban and rural;
L8.Data  Wafr to houoing units;    /a    Data refer to households;    /3M   1966;   /a    Piped muter inside.
a flenawrk has been selected as an objective country because it illustrates, through a development strategy based ona .high
level of foreign trade and economic integration, the economic potential of a small country with a small population.
April 22, 1975



Page 2 of 3 Page.
ECSBNs4C DEVELOPMENT DATA
(in aillions of US dollars)
Act.a1                          Prol-cted                 1968-     1973-     1q7S-
1972       1973       1974        1975       1976       1980       19,73      1 9 7     1980        1972         1974        19'6         1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                         ~    ~~~At 1972 Price  &  xhange Rate.                 AVerage Annual Growth Rare.                    As Perret' of rgy    --W
Groon D-esic     Produ-t                        2149       2169        221        22E54 7    2325       2734         1. 6      2         3 9       lOG 0        102 2       10o 1T            3
(,ain. fron  Tr.M. of TrCd. (+)                               42      -  47      -  95      -   71       - 6                                             -        2 2      -  3         -  21
Cross Doxeetic Toone                            2149       2211        2163       2162       2 2 57     2673                 - I 1       4.3       100 0        100.        100            100
Itpr  it.NS                                268i       2 75       274         283        310        417        6 2        1 5       8 0        12 5         12 7        1
.n~a(Jn.    invrt .aPaCiLY)                 283         307        229        231        299        46                     .3      1.           132          0.132                   (
R.es.-T.  Cap                                     is1     -   32         45         %2         11           I                                        02 270.
C:nnsswion REpardltnrea                         1885       1939        1972       1971       2016       2359          .        0.8       3.7        9k7.7        91.2        89.2         88.2
In-estsn: Fp.epdic:-.e (inc. storks)             249        240         236        243        254        315        4.6        0.7       5.4        11.6         10.9        11.2         11.8
Sonsetic Savings                    ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~264  272  191  191  243  314    6.5     -16.3       10.4        12.3          8.8        10 8         11.7
NtI'nll Sav~Iingsl                               23-5                    8          77        23         2917.5                         10.3        11.1          8.5         10.3        10 8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                           Annual DLat At CIrrant Pnlc*#                                                                    As Percent of Total
1973         1974        1976        1YmI
Cpal ,odn                                 30         29         41          60         78        166         6.1      43.8      22.6        10.1          8.3         11.4        14.5
Inrne-dlato Goods (encl, f.eSs)                108        153         240        278        324        570        10.1I     34.8      1.            36         4.            76         5.
F-1.n And Related Katerials                     43          55        156        180        232        339        10. 8     80.8      13.5        19.2         31.7         34.1        29.7
of which:   P.toeu                            31         45        137         155        202        301         .        28.1      14.2        15.7         27.8         29.7        26.4
C..a-tpti-n Goods                               31         48          55         38         46          63       2:3.1     11.1      10.5         16.8        11.1          6.7         5.5
Total Merh. leports (ntf)                      212       2i85        ZT-          556       680       1138        11.1      39.7      15.4       100.0        100.0         M   -      i-oo.o
Primar.yProdoct    (sti.   fstels)             185        301         323        3 55       501        832         8j.7      8.6      18.6        92.0         84.3         84.3        76.1
F. I n an  Ieae       atrials                   -          -           -          -          -           -                               --                      -           --
of which:     erln                            -          -           -          -                      ----
M.a-factnred Goods                              28          26         60         74          93        261       29.5      68.7       28.7         7.9        15.6         15.6        23.8
Total Merrh. DEports (fob)                     213        327         383        49         54        109         T-O,      14.5       20.6       100.0       100.0O       100.0       100.0
To,.rism And Border Trade . 
M-0-bndi- Trade Indi-e                                              AVerage 1972 - 100
F.port  Pri-e lode.                            100        162         169        152        187         270        4 5     - 3.2       12.1
report Pri-e loden                             100        132         221        243        256         336        3 .7      35. 7      6.7
Cer-  of Trade loden                           100        123         76          63         73         8           .       2.          .
Enpoe-   V.1-m. loden                          100         94          97        115        131         i69         3.1      10.6       8.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR   ~Annu.Al DaL. at 1972 Prites and E.change Raes.                             Average Annua    Groth Rates                 As Percent of Total
Agri-clt-r    and Finheries                    342.7       377.4      381.2      392.6      416.3       527 7       4.7.                6.1        15.9         17.2        17 8         19 3
I.d-ot,,, IivittK And Cttrton                  580.2       566.1      5965       620.0      647.5       767.3       1.7      4.7       4.3         26 9         26.9        27 8         28 0
Others                                        1227.1     1225.5      1232.3     1244.4     1264.2      1439.0       0.1       1.0       2.9        57.2         55.9        54 4         52 7
Tots1                                         2149.0      2169.0     2210.0     2257.0     2328.0      2734.0        Th6     2.0        3.-9      100.0        100.0       100.0o       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE
(Centr-IoeemtC                                                                                                                                                 A. Percent of CDP
CtretRecipts                                   290         315        283        3 17        362        427         ..       0.5        6. i       13.4         12.8        is 5         I1  6
C.ttont Enp.nditcres                           322         314        345        313         332        403          .       02         5.+2       14.9         15 6        14.2         14 7
Btcdg.t-vS-vitg.                              -32        -I          -    62       4         30          24                    .        3131      -1.4        -2.8           1.2          08
Other. P,,blit Sector                            13         22         .           15         20         47          ..    -32.7       36.3         0.6           -           0.8         1.7
ublic~ sector Inetet77                                     67         84          91        100         121         ..      16.5       5.9          3.5         3.8          4.2         4.4
cuRRENT EXPENDITFURE DETAILS                                    Actual           Prelim.      Eni.       Proj.         DETAIL O8 PUBIC SECTOR                     US$ nilliot
-A.   -[t, I C-tr.-.t Expe-t. t                          1973        1974       1975       1976       1980          INVESTMENT PROCIRAIR                    At end 1972 P and ER
f,:.t.u:icv        ..          ..        ..          ..         ..                                                    ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plan  7% of Total
Other Social Cevcs..                                                   ..         ..         ..         ..(1974/77                                                        1974/77)
Agri-olcot-.                                                            .         .                     .           Oocis1 Sector                              203.2         21.5
Other E-oo-c Se-rvie                                        .          ..         ..                                Agriculture                                205.0        .21.7
Ad.inisctr.tico   nd Defense                               .             .        ..           .                     Indttstry and Mstti.g                      56.7          6.0
Other                                                       .          ..         ..         .                       Po..er                                    258.0         27.3
Tvto1 Correct. Enpenditures.                                           .          .           .         .           Transport and C-snnications                197.5         20.9
Other                                       24.5         2.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Total   Enoemditcrdi c.re s944.99000.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                         1960-       1965-      1970-      1973-                    FINANCINC
(Calt-loted from 3-year Aver-ged Dat)                    1.965 La.    1970      1975       1978
Av-rage ICOR                                             16.49        5.78      3.32        2.94                       Public Sector Savings                   634.0         67.1
10p.rt Elas-tiit..                                       6.40         6.57     -0.08       2.05                        Enteroal Bocrossing (net)               175.9         18.7
M.rgicol Domesic SaViogs Rote                             0.14       -0.14.     0.19        0.28                       Donestic Borrosing (.et)                135.0         14.2
Morginal Notional S-vicgu R.te                            0.04       -0.17      0.16        0.28                       Tcta1 Financing                         94-4.9       100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                               Total Labor ForE.      .                                Value Added Per Worker (1972 Prices 4 inc. Rates)
In Bmilli.n.         . of Total     1963-1974                      1v US Dollars        Percent of Average         1963-1974
1963      1974      1963      1974 Groth Rate                       1963      1974          1963         1974      Growth Rate
AgricoLtart                                      0.18       ..       17.9        - 
Iodc-tr,                                        0.26        ..       2 5.       . . 7 
Service                                         0.49        .-       48.5        .        ....                                  .....
Unallv-oted                                      0.08       .-        7.9       .         ....                                  .....
Tcta1                                            1.-0-1.            100.0        .         ...                                  .....
oct oppl-cob1c             nil -r negligible                                                                                                           Sept-b-r IS, 1975
nct available          -   lens  than haIl the smallest u.it uhow
R, BI,t-c Cv 1961-66



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Avg Annual
Actual                                                       Projected                                                     Growth Rate
1973            1974            1975            1976            1977            1978             1979             1980             1979-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (includes NFS)                  410             452             496             683             815             938             1074             12S7                20.4
Imports (includes NFS)                  367             542             607             709             831             995             1097             1260                IS.7
Resource Balance (X-M)                 + 43            - 90            -111            - 26            - 16            - 17            -  23            -   3
Interest on Public Debt                -24             - 41           - 43             - 56            -63             - 67            -  74            -80                  13.0
Other Factor Services                  -  1              -             -  6            -  7            -  8            -  8            -   9            -  10
Current Transfers (Net)                  19              26              20              15              15              15               15               15
Balance on Current Accounts              37            -105           -140             - 73            - 70            - 77            -  90            -  77               -11 3
Public M & LT Loans
Disbursements                          53             140             228             140             159             176              200              209               - I.R
-Repayments                          - 100            - 91            -162            -101            - 95            -127             -131             -12S               - 5.1
Net Disbursements                      - 47              49              66              39              64              49               69               84                 4,9
Capital Transactions n.e.i.              76            -  2              74              29              -               14                4               -
Change in Net Reserves                 - 66              58              -               -             -  4              -                -              - 27
Actual                     Estimated
1973             1974                1980
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                             Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed             369              559                932
Public M & LT Loans                                                                    Interest on Public Debt                            24               41                 to
IBRD                                     13.5             _             52             Repayments on Public Debt                         100               91                125
IDA                                        .               .                           Total Public Debt Service Ratio (7.)               30 2              29 2              16.2
IDB                                      10.0            21.8           .              Other Debt Service (net)
Private Banks                            20.6 6                                        Total Debt Service (net)
Governments                              41.9            85.0
Suppliers                                21.0             3.3                          Average Terms of Public Debt
Financial Institutions                     -
Bonds                                     ,               ,                            Interest as X Prior Year DO & D                      5 9              6 9               9 4
Public Loans n.e.i                        .                .                           Amortization as % of Prior Year DO & D             23.6              26 1              14 8
Total Public M & LT Loans               106.9           110.1-
IBRD Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                 58 6             70 8             149.0
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1974       IBRD as % Public Debt 0 & D                         15.9             12.7               7,S
EXTERNAL DEBT                              Disbursed Only           Percent            IBRD as %7 Public Debt Service                       6 4              6 S               3 9
World Bank                                       70.8                12.7
IDA
Other Multilateral                               17.5                 3.1
Governments                                     148.6                26.6
Suppliers                                        83.1                14.9
Financial Institutions                           85.9                15.4
Bonds
Public Debt n.e.i.                               ...
Total Public M & LT Debt                        559.0               100.0
not applicable                                                e staff estimate                                                                                                        o -
not available                                                 - nil or negligible
... not available separately, but included in total              -- less than half the smallest unit shown
September 15, 1975                                     5



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1975)-
Loan                                                           (US $ million)
No.      Year            Borrower            Purpose   Amount (less cancellations)
Bank          Undisbursed
J-i!ne loans fully disbursed                              123.7
712       1971   UTE                          Power        18.0             0.3
940       1973   Rep. Oriental del Uruguay    Agriculture 13.5              3.7
!  155.2          4.0
Total of which has been
repaid to Bank and others                81.3
Total now outstanding                     73.9
Amount sold                    3.3
of which has been repaid       3.3       -
Total now held by Bank                    73.9
Total undisbursed                                          4.o
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of _eptezDer 30, 1975)
None have been made.
* On October 15, 1975, a Fifth Livestock Development Project of
TU3$17.0 million was signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
1/
C.    Projects in Execution and Notes on Compiled Projects
Loan 712     Power Generation and Distribution, US$18.0 million,
November 25, 1970. (Date of effectiveness: June 19, 1971)
1.       Because of delays in procurement and supply difficulties, the installation
of Battle Unit No. 6, which is the main part of the Project, was completed in July
1975 after a delay of about 18 months. UTE has obtained additional financing from
the suppliers for the cost overruns.  Progress has bcen achieved in improving the
financial situation of the institution, particularly through a reorganization of
its financial and bill collection procedures. Other organizational problems are
in the process of being resolved.
Loan 940     Fourth Livestock Project, Second Stage. US$13.5 million, October 25,
1973. (Date of effectiveness: January 22, 174)
2.       Originally, this project was designed to finance part of Uruguay's
livestock development program for 1974. In view of the depressed international
beef market, however, by the end of 1974 only US$8.3 million had been disbursed.
The remaining portion will be committed by the end of 1975, although some disburse-
ments spill over to early 1976. To permit the Borro-wer to utilize the undisbursed
balance, the closing date of the Loan was extended to uune 30, 1976.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They sholuld be read it this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesse: in
pro,ect. execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
URUGAJAY
INDIJSTRIAL DEVELOPME!T AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUPHARY
Borrower:           Republic of Uruguay
Beneficiary:        Central Bank's Industrial Export Promotion Fund
Amount:             US$35.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in lo years, including 5 years of grace at
6.5% interest per annum
Relending Terns:    The Central Bank would onlend the proceeds to commercial
banks which in turn would lend them to selected export
enterprises for the following purposes and on the below
specified terms: (a) loans in US dollars for imported
workcing capital items with a minimum maturity of six
months at an annual interest rate equivalent to the
LIBOR rate (London Interbank Offered Rate for deposits
for 180 days) plus one-half percentage point; and (b)
loans in US dollars equivalent for imported capital goods
for four to ten years including one to three years of grace
at 8 1/21 per annum. The commercial banks would lend
the funds to enterprises for imported working capital
items with a spread of three percentage points; in the
case of subloans for imported capital goods a two-and-
one-half percentage points spread would prevail.   The
Government would assume the exchange risk, if any,
betweeni the US do'lar and the currencies used in Bank
disbursements.
Project Description:  The project wonld support a lending program to
industrial export enterprises to finance the cost of
importing working capital items and machinery and
equipment. The project would also include technical
assistance to assist the Government in the evaluation
of sub-projects, and in the preparation of an export
expansion program and studies on the effective level
of protection for domestic industries.   The loan would
have three components, namely: an imported working
capittal component of (JS$2h.5 million, a medium- and
long-tern investment financing component of US$10 million
and a techr.ical assistance component of 1I.SO.5 million.



AI\EX ITI
Page 2 of 2 pages
Estimated Disbursements:
(in US):3 thousands)
FY76    FY77    iY75      7      Y80
Incremental   15,000  11,000    2,800   4,700   1,500
,urmulative   15,000  26,000  25,800  33,500   35,000
Procurement Arrangements:   Since imports for the imported workirng capital
component will consist of a large number of small items
purchased bv individual firms, international competitive
bidding would not be required. Procurement under the
impor-ted working capital financing component would be
made through regular cormmercial channels in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the 3ank. For goods
under the investment financing component, procurement
wculd be the same as under normal DFC operations.
For the technical assistance component, consultants'
contracts would be awarded in accordance with the
overnment's practices, which are consistent with the
guidelines on "The Uses of Consultants by the World
3ank and its o3rrowers" issued in April 1974.   Eligible
consultants would be from member countries of the Bank
and Switzerland.
Consultants:        The project would finance the hiring of individual
consultants and/or firms experienced in export marketing
and analysis, appraisal of industrial projects, and
studies related to the effective level of protection
for domestic industries.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 15 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
Brief Description of Major Exporting Subsectors
1.        Below is a brief description of the subsectors comprising the
core of manufactured exports. There are also attached tables giving
information on industrial production, value added, exports, imports and
financing requirements for machinery and equipment.
Leather Clothing
2.        Leather clothing is produced in a few dozen small plants; it
has become an important manufactured export (US$10.7 million equivalent in
1974). Production is basically labor intensive, with cutting and sewing
by skilled workers dominating the process. The expanded export activity
has placed increasing pressures on the firms for a larger level of
inventory of raw materials, working capital and equipment. To overcome
this problem, some firms have resorted to vertical integration with
finished leather producers. A great majority, however, are seeking credit
on appropriate terms to finance their growing needs for working capital
and machinery and equipment. In view of the high number of orders already
received from North America and Europe, the industry foresees a very good
year in 1975. Success in meeting the export sales, however, will heavily
depend on the availability of finished leather in the domestic market. As
a result of the depressed international beef market,slaughtering has
declined sharply and hides are scarce; therefore, hides and finished leather
will have to be imported,
Leather Accessories
3.        Production of leather accessories is carried out by hundreds of
small shops and homes. Only a few of these produce directly for export.
Most depend upon intermediaries to secure export orders and finance working
capital. Invested fixed capital is small and production is labor intensive.
Success depends on the quality of the finished product and, in turn, this
depends on labor skills. Production at near productive capacity prevails
in most of the subsector, and firms are expanding as fast as the avail-
ability of short-, medium- and long-term credit permits.   At present,
market demand far exceeds supply. Exports have grown to abou-t US$1 million
and there are reasonable expectations for a rapid increase in the future
The major markets are again North America and Europe. As in the case above,
the availability of finished leather could be a constraint to the expansion
of these products for export,



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 15 pages
Leather Shoes
4.        Manufacturing of leather shoes for export (at present about
500,000 pairs per annum) is carried out by 15 to 20 firms, while produc-
tion for the local market (some 3 million pairs per annum) involves ten
times that number of small operators. While production is largely labor
intensive, equipment still is considerable. Much of the equipment,
however, is obsolete and does not allow output of the quality required
by export markets. In the larger firms there has been a growing inte-
gration with foreign enterprises, particularly West German and Brazilian,
which are in close touch with export markets and modern technology. Shoe
exports, mainly to Europe, have enjoyed rapid growth since 1970 (about
US$2 million total export sales in 1974). Good possibilities exist for a
further expansion, provided the industry develops stronger links with
institutional buyers abroad; these can assist shoe producers in production
techniques and in recommending style changes. Again in the short-run the
availability of leather can be a limiting factor to their expansion and
over the near-term the supply of credit to finance plant renovation and
expansion.
Finished Leather
5.        Finished leather is produced by more than twenty plants but four
or five firms dominate export sales. The industry is relatively capital
intensive, demanding spacious structures, vats, pumps and finishing equip-
ment. Since late 1973, excess capacity of about one-third has appeared in
tanning as a result of the currently depressed international beef market,
which forced sharp reductions in slaughtering. Due to increased imports
of unfinished leather, finishing facilities are operating at 80% of installed
capacity. Much of the industry's equipment is approaching obsolescence.
While this has not prevented rapid export growth in the past, existing
plant and equipment will have to be renovated so as to improve quality
standards required in export markets.
6.        In value terms, leather and by-products of finished leather
provided nearly US$26 million in export earnings in 1974. Over the short-
terms leather exports will be limited by the sharply diminished cattle
slaughtering resulting from the unfavorable export prospects for beef.
As the export of manufactured leather products increases exports of finished
leather should decline. In anticipation-of this trend, the leather industry
has already started to integrate with producers of manufactured leather
goods.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 15 pages
Wool Textiles and Yarns
7.        The production of wool textiles and yarns is carried out by
dozens of firms but exports are dominated by four or five enterprises,
each having several hundred employees. The exporting enterprises are
integrated with the wool scouring and preparation stages and are in con-
tact with important foreign buyers. The industry is old and well-established,
producing principally for the domestic market but intermittently exporting
10-15% of output when favorable world market conditions prevail.
8.        Fixed capital needs  for yarn and weaving machines, are relatively
large as half of its equipment is considered obsolete and unsuitable for
export trade. Despite this obstacle, the industry was able to respond to
increased world demand for wool products and in 1974 substantially expanded
exports, devoting nearly 30% of output to foreign markets.  Only a minor
part, about 15%, of total domestic wool production is normally used by the
industry and, therefore, the availability of raw material supplies should
not be a problem. The major constraint to expanding output and exports has
been the difficulty in finding sufficient financing at the time of the
annual wool clip to assure the availability of adequate supplies for the
season. With a gradual resolution of this problem and continued export
incentives through sound economic policies on the part of the Government,
the industry should be able to sustain increased exports.
Vehicle Tires
9.        Rubber tires are produced by two firms in Uruguay. Compared with
most other manufacturing enterprises in the country, they have high fixed
capital requirements, sophisticated technology and are characterized by
high value added in processing basic imported raw materials. The regular
upgrading of technology with foreign firms' assistance allows export quality
products, representing about 25% of total production0
10.       There is growing demand in both domestic and export markets,
(largely Brazil and Argentina) for radial tires; this calls for shifting
rapidly from traditional to radial tires in the near future. To accomplish
this, the enterprises must invest promptly and heavily in new facilities.
Tire exports in 1974 reached US$5 million, having quadrupled in two years and,
with market opportunities in Brazil continuing to increase, significant
further growth appears in prospect.
Cement
II.       Cement production is concentrated in three major enterprises.
Production is capital intensive. The industry is securely based on high
quality raw materials located in northern Uruguay and is in a strong position
to supply neighboring markets. Recent plant expansions have raised the



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 15 pages
overall level of efficiency and provided for the recent substantial
export growth. The sharp increase in exports in 1974 was largely due to
a substantial order from South Africa and it is unlikely that such rate
of growth can be maintained in the future. Nevertheless, if construction
activity continues in Brazil and resumes in Argentina, rapid export growth
can be anticipated.
Ceramics, Tile and Glass
12,       Ceramic ware, tile and glass production is based upon deposits
of basic sands and clays of excellent quality. Five or six plants, one
employing 700 persons, dominate the field and produce over 90% of the
estimated 50,000 tons output per year. Fixed capital requirements in
mixing, moulding and oven equipment are relatively high; the industry is
highly sensitive to fuel costs. Starting with the crudest of raw materials
and proceeding in an integrated operation to highly finished products ready
for installation and use, the ceramic tile industry ranks among the highest
in domestic value added.
130       During the past year, the ceramics and tile industry has been
operating at near full capacity as a result of increased export sales,
which in 1974 amounted to US$3 million. Provided the availability of
imported complementary products such as metal-mesh and other reinforcements
is increased, the industry should be able to maintain increasing exports.
Over the near-term however, renovation and expansion of plant capacity
will be necessary.
Fertilizers
14.        Mixed fertilizer  production, a long standing import substitution
industry with considerable excess capacity, reacted quickly during the last
two years to unusually high foreign demand. In 1974, some US$2 million in
foreign sales, largely in Brazil, were made. The four or five plants involved
use domestic ingredients for the inert portion of the mix but active ingred-
ients are largely all imported. The process is a relatively simple mixing,
although careful control is required for acceptable quality. Fixed-capital
requirements are relatively high and value added rather modest. Provided
world supply and demand conditions for fertilizers return to normal, the
industry should be able to increase its sales to neighboring countries.
Automobile Parts
15.        The production of auto parts is extremely fractionalized. At
the urging and with the assistance of firms engaged in auto assembly, some
seventy enterprises, basically engaged in casting, moulding and machining
metal, rubber, glass and plastic for other uses, are devoting a part of
their installed capacity to producing several hundred auto-related itzins
for use in local assembly or for export under complementation agreements     I
within LAFTA. The raw materials are, for the most part, imported. While
the great diversity of the products involved defies generalization,



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of '5 pages
usually they are labor intensive. The industry is an important employer,
particularly in the Montevideo area.
16.        Arrangements within LAFTA provide a limited preferential market
for Uruguayan auto parts and subassemblies, especially in Argentina and
Brazil. In addition, the Government now requires that auto assembly firms
use 25% local component in autos for sale in Uruguay and arrange for sales
abroad of auto parts and tires equal to the value of auto kits imported for
local assembly and sale.  In 1974, the export of auto parts amounted to
about US`)4.5 million.
17.        The overall economic benefits of the auto assembly industry are
being investigated by the Government. While some modifications in govern-
ment policies affecting the industry are in process, Uruguay's commitment
to LAFTA arrangements and the excess capacity in most enterprises is likely
to result in the near future in increased exports.
Fruit and Vegetable Canning
18.        Canned fruits and vegetables are seen as contributing importantly,
within the near future, to Uruguay's total manufactured goods exports.
There are at present some 35 food processing plants, primarily for the
domestic market. Their equipment is generally obsolete and deficient for
adequate quality control. Where portions of plants are serviceable, there
is great need for suipplementary balancing equipment. Many operations now
performed by hand could be mechanized. Only three firms have engaged in
export marketing and have achieved substantial success in exporting canned
fruit pulp to Brazil (in 1974 over US$1.1 million).
19.        Different studies conducted by several international organizations
in cooperation with the Government highlight the possibilities for Uruguay
to further develop vegetable farms and orchards of temperate zone products
for export, particularly to Brazil. Seventeen firms are interested in
developing projects along these lines and are seeking medium- and long-term
financing. The existina enterprises are also anxious to renovate equipment,
but their most immediate need is imported tin plate for canning.
Fish Processing
20.        Processed fish products also appear to have good prospects for
becoming a significant and growing export. At the present time, nine firms
led by a state-controlled enterprise market some 20-25,000 tons of fish per
year, principally in fresh form. About 10% of the total has been marketed
as fresh fillets to Argentina, Italy and the United States. Recent FAO
studies indicate abundant fish supplies off-shore. The IDB plans to assist
through credits the procurement of appropriate fishing vessels to permit
increasing the total catch to 120,000 tons by 1978.   The Government and
its state fishing agency are programming investments in wharves, unloading



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 1l pages
and storage facilities. Private firms have also plans, most of them
still requiring financing, for some US$15 million in storage, freezing
and processing facilities. Even allowing for a substantial increase in
domestic consumption which might be generated by a greatly increased
availabilicy of fish and fish products, it is estimated that at least
90%3 of the potential production would be exported.
Stone Quarrying
21.        Worked stone from the abundant deposits of granite and marble
near Uruguay's principal port are another domestic resource based product
which the Government wishes to promote in export markets. The industry at
the moment is at a very rudimentary stage. About 20 quarry operators and
six stone-finishing firms produce 15-20,000 tons of blocks, slabs, and
polished products (Floor and wall surfaces, monuments, grave markers,
tables, etc.) per year. The firms are inadequately capitalized and have
insufficient equipment to handle export orders. Only 31 stone saws were
operating in mid-1974. Although over the past few years small export
orders have been filled from Japan, Italy, Spain, the United States and
Argentina, there has been no real upward trend in exports (an average of
about US$100,000 per year). Industry spokesmen indicate that for lack of
equipment and capacity they have often been unable to bid on interesting
international offers. The leading firms have indicated their willingness
to make investments that would enable them to reach a scale of production
compatible with the size of order placed by regular international buyers.
Consistent with thbs, they are preparing expansion plans and are seeking
appropriate term financing.



Table 1l   Gross Domestic Product by Sector of Origin 1960, 1965 and 1970-74
1960           1965          1970           1971          1972          1973           1974
(in million of 1961 pesos)
Agriculture                         2,142         2,501          2,872         2,839         2,560          2,659         2,679
Industry                           3,464          3,577         4,030          3,956         3,942          3,912         4,054
Trade and Commerce                  2,278         2,298          2,593         2,479         2,342          2,392         2.468
Transportation                     1,200          1,213         1,203          1,236         1,166          1,207         1,260
Construction                          920           613            755           800           811            656           698
Services and Other                  5,001         5,442         6,045          6,017         5,929          6,082         6,061
Total                      15,005         15,644        17,498         17,327        16,750        16,908         17.220
(in percent of total)
Agriculture                          14.3          16.0           16.4          16.4           15.3          15.7           15.6
Industry                             23.1          22.9           23.0          22.9          23.5           23.1          23.5
Trade and Commerce                   15.2          14.7           14.8          14.3          14.0           14.2           14.3
Transportation                        8.0           7.7            6.9           7.1           7.0            7.1            7.3
Construction                          6.1           3.9            4.3           4.6           4.8            3.9           4.1
Services and Other                  33.3           34.8           34.6          34.7          35.4           36.0          35.2
Total                       100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0
1961-65        1966-70       1970-71        1971-72       1972-73       1973-74
(rate of growth, in percent)
Agriculture                             -           3.2            2.8          -1.1           -9.8           3.9            0.8
Industry                                -           0.6            2.4          -1.8           -0.4          -0.8            3.6
Trade and Commerce                      -           0.2            2.5          -4.4           -5.5           2.1            3.2
Transportation                          -           0.2           -0.2           2.7           -5.7           3.5           4.4
Construction                            -          -5.8            4.3           6.0            1.4         -19.1            6.4
Services and Other                      -           1.7            2.1          -0.5           -1.5           2.6           -0.3
Total                           -           +0.9          +2.3           -1.0          -3.3           +0.9          +1.8
Source:  Central Bank of Uruguay.
0 c0



ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 15 pages
Table 2    STRUCTURE OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, SELECTED YEARS
(In percent of total value added)
Sub-Sectors                   1955     1960      1965     1970     1974
Food                               23.3      19.1     21.4     22.5     21.5
Textiles                           15.7     12.7      14.2     10.3     10.0
Beverages                           7.7       7.6      8.2     11.1      9.6
Non-metallic Minerals /a             5.5      8.0      5.5      7.8      9.8
Chemical Products and Fertilizers   5.3      6.1       5.8      6.6      7.8
Petroleum                            5.1      4.8      5.5      4.7      4.9
ShoeE and Clothing /b               4.8       5.3      6.3      5.0      3.9
Tobacco                              2.5      3.2      3.7      3.6      4.0
Printing                             2.6      2.5      2.8      2.8      2.7
Paper and Paper Products             0.9      2.0      2.2      2.3      2.3
Leather Finishing /c                1.5       1.1      1.3      1.5      2.6
Rubber ProductE                      1.0      3.5      1.6      1.7      2.2
Electrical Apparatus                3.6       4.1      4.0      3.0      2.1
Metal Fabrication                    4.2      3.4      3.0      1.7      1.4
Basic Metals                        1.5       1.3    1          1.3    1
Machinery                           3.6       4.0    1          2.5    1
Transport Equipment                 6.2       5.3    115.8      6.5    117.3
Wood and Furniture                   3.9      2.7    1          2.5    1
Others /d                            1.1      2.3    1          2.6    1
Totals                       100.0     100.0   100.0     100.0    100.0
/a  Includes construction materials.
7E Does not include leather clothing.
T7 Does not include leather clothing, accessories and articles.
7   Includes leather products and others.
Source: Planning and Budgeting Office.



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 15 pages
Table 3 : INDEX OF VALUE ADDED IN MANUFACTURING BY SUB-SECTORS,
1958, 1963, 1968-74
(1961 = 100, based on data at 1961 prices)
1958   1963   1968    1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
Food                       104     104    120    131    137    122    121     122    131
Beverages                    94    125    109    137    153    155    145     134    134
Tobacco Products             98    120     94    110    133    151    149     148    146
Textiles                   120      96    111     98     92     84     93      87     89
Clothing and Shoes         127     103    145    129    114    108      96     89     91
Paper Products              108    112    141    153    172    198     189    216    216
Printing                    112     80    102    111    114    106     107    122    109
Rubber Products             121     59     58     62     77     70      78     86    107
Chemicals                    96     89    103    112    123    135     125    138    145
Petroleum Products           90    110    106    115    115     117    118    113    118
Non-Metallic Minerals       116     74    127    118    150     159    160    174    188
Metal Products              104    112     68     72     72      74     72     69     62
Elec. Machinery &
ApparatuF                  64     71     56     62     59      63     57     51     50
Other                        90    102    108     93    118    116     115    112    120
All Industry Groups         104    100    108    113    118     116    114    114    118
Annual Change (Percent)      -      -      -    +5.0   +4.7    -2.1   -1.2   -0.4   +3.3
Source: Planning and Budgeting Office.



ANNEX IV
Page lo of 15 pages
Table 4 : DOMESTIC VALUE ADDED IN SELECTED
INDUSTRY SUB-GROUPS, AVERAGE 1968, 1970-71
Value Added
as Percent
Sub-groups                                               of Final Sales
Construction Tile & Brick                                           79
Ceramics & Decor. Tile                                              71
Moulded Rubber Products                                             66
Glass                                                               64
Vehicle Tires                                                       58
Electrical Equipment                                                57
Cement Products                                                     56
Motor Vehicles & Parts                                              53
Shoes                                                               48
Textiles                                                            46
Worked Stone                                                        46
Metal Fabrication                                                   45
All Industry Average                                                44
Leather                                                             44
Secondary Chemicals                                                 44
Paper Carton & Packaging                                            44
Leather Clothing & Apparel                                          43
Leather Articles, Non-Clothing                                      39
Wood Processing                                                     38
Cement                                                              35
Basic Chemicals, Incl. Fertilizers                                  31
Canned Fruit & Vegetables                                           30
Dairy Products                                                      29
Other Food Products                                                 28
Meat Processing                                                     22
Source:  Ministry of Economy & Finance, Office of Statistics and Census.



ANNEX IV
Page U1 of 15 pages
Table 5     EXPORTS, BY VALUE, SELECTED COMMODITY GROUPS, 1965 and 1971-74
(In millions of US dollars)
1965         1971        1972         1973         1974
TOTAL EXPORTS                                        191.2       205.7        214.1        321.5       382.2
TRADITIONAL                                        164.8       147.4        162.8        235.7       238.0
Meat, Chilled and Frozen                         52.7        65.7         99.3        121.6       138.2
Hides, Crude and Semi-Processed                  10.2         3.9          3.6          3.9         1.3
Wool, Crude and Semi-Processed                   91.8        66.0         57.0        102.0        90.0
Grains, Oil Seeds and Oils                       10.6        11.9          2.9          8.2         8.5
NON-TRADITIONAL                                     26.4        58.3         51.3         85.8       144.2
Non-Processed                                      5.3         6.9          4.7          7.4        16.5
Stone, Sand and Minerals                         0.4         1.4          1.4          0.9         1.1
Live Animals (Pedigree)                          1.3         2.8          2.0          1.4    .    4.0
Fresh Fish                                       ---         0.5          0.3          0.7         1.1
Misc. Agric. Produce                             3.6         2.2          1.1          4.4         10.3
of which (Fruit)                              (---)       (0.9)        (0.7)        (3.4)        (4.5)
Semi-Processed                                     0.1         7.1          6.1         15.3         28.5
Rice, hulled                                     0.1         7.0          5.9         15.0         28.2
Granite and Marble Blocks                        ---         0.1          0.2          0.3          0.3
Manufactures                                      21.0        44.2         40.6         63.1         99.2
Processed Meat and By-products                  8.0          5.()         3.6          5.8         6.5
Processed Agric. Products                        1.6         4.3          2.5          4.2          5.6
Prepared and Preserved Foods                     0.2         0.8          0.6          0.6          1.2
Leather, Tanned and Finished                     5.7        17.6         19.3         22.0         22.7
Leather Products (Clothing, Shoes, etc)          ---         3.5          4.4         10.4         19.4
Textiles (Cloth, Yarn and Clothing)              2.7         4.4          3.1          7.1         11.8
Paper, Pulp and Wood Products                    ---         0.1          0.1          0.3         2.1
Chemical Products, Including Fertilizers         0.4         2.1          1.7          1.9          5.1
Portland Cement                                  0.7         1.8          1.2          2.6         4.5
Glass and Ceramic Products                       0.3         1.6          0.8          1.7          3.3
Electric and Electronic Products                 ---         1.2          0.9          1.1          1.7
Metal Manufactures                               0.3         0.5          0.5          0.7          1.5
Auto Parts                                       ---         0.3          0.5          2.9          4.5
Vehicle Tires and Tubes                          0.6         0.2          0.9          1.4          5.3
Other Manufactures                               0.6         0.8          0.6          0.6          4.1
Source: Central Bank of Uruguay.



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 15 pages
Table 6    DISTRIBUTION BY VALUE OF TRADITIONAL AND NON-TRADITIONAL
EXPORT PRODUCT GROUPS
(In percent of total)
1965      1968       1971      1974
Traditional, Crude and Semi-Processed
Products (Meat, Hides, Wool, Grain &
Oilceeds)                                 86.2      81.9      71.7      62.3
Non-Traditional, Crude and Eemi-
Processed Products (Live Animals,
Fresh Fish & Fruit, Hulled Rice,
Construction Materials)                   2.8        4.0       6.8      11.7
Non-Traditional Manufactures             11.0       14.1      21.5       26.0
of which
Finished Leather & Products        (3.0)      (5.5)    (10.2)    (11.0)
Total                             100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
Total Value of Exports
(MillionE of US$)                        $191       $179      $206      $382
Source: Central Bank of Uruguay.



ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 15 pages
Table 7:   DISTRIBUTION BY VALUE OF HIDES & LEATHER EXPORTS
(In percent of total)
1961-62   1965-66   1967-68   1969-70   1971-72    1973-74
Hides, Crude & Semi-Processed   81        58        h8         2h        15         7
Leather, Tanned & Finished      18        41         49        66        70        55
Leather Products, Semi-
Finished                       0          0         2         4         4        13
Leather Clothing and
Articles                        1         1         1         6        11        25
Total                     100       100       100        100       100       100
Total Value (millions of
US$) (averaged for each
period)                        $17.1     $16.9     $16.0     $26.8     $26.2     $39.9
Source: Central Bank of Uruguay.



ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 15 pages
Table 8:   MERCHANDISE IHPORTS, (CIF), 1970-74
(Amounts in US$ million)
1970      1971      1972     1973      1974
Consumer Goods                23.9      25.          8      46.5      40.6
Wheat                        -        -
Other Non-durables          8.8       8.7       6.5      10.3      13.3
Automobile Kite              9.5     11.3      13.3      15.9      18.2
Other Durables              5.6       5.5       3.2       4.5       4.8
Oil and Derivates             33.7      32.2      43.1      54.7     160.6
U     TffME rl--            Ml7.1   -3W1l3 3IE           44.1     130.4
Derivates                   6.6       0.9      11.7       9.9      30.2
Raw-Material & Intermediate  108.4     104.3     107.7     147.8     239.6
Chemicals -                  6        9.        9.1 -1.CI          13.7
Construction                7.0       6.4       4.7       7.9       9.3
Primary Materials           89.3     84.1      82.9     120.8     208.8
Other                       3.3       4.4      10.3       7.7       7.8
Capital Goods                 65.8      60.2       0.1      35.8      45.9
Machinery and Equipment     26.      21.3      12.6                24.5
Transport                  26.6      26.9      12.0      12.3      16.9
Other                      11.4      12.0       5.5       8.7       4.5
TOTAL (CIF)           230.9    222.1     211.6     284.8     486.6
Source:  Central Bank of Uruguay.



ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 15 pages
Table q:   REQUIREMENTS OF IM4PORTED MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT IN
1975-76 BY SELECTED INDUSTRY GROUPS
(In thousands of dollars)
Balancing   Renovation &       For
Industry Sub-groups           Total   Equipment   Modernization    Expansion
Textiles, Cotton & Synthetics       7,000       --           3,000         4,000
Textiles, Wool Yarn & Cloth        5,700       500           2,700         2,500
ZipperE                              800       100            300            400
Leather Tanning                    6,350        50           3,100         3,200
Shoes                              .2,800       -            1,h00         1,h00
Leather Garments                     900        100            150           650
Leather Handbags & Articles           750       --             --            750
Secondary Chemicals                4 ,100       100          2,000         2,000
Fertilizers                        1,600        --             --          1,600
Auto Parts                          3,h00       300          1,000         2,100
Vehicle Tires                       4,000       --             --          4,000
Other Rubber Products                 500       100            200           200
Ceramics                              700       - -            700           --
Brick & Tile                        1,000       --             500           500
Stone Blocks & SlabE                1,620       --             620         1,000
Canned Fruits & Vegetables          1,080        80            400           600
Totals                       42,300      1,330         16,070        2h,900
Source: Survey of May 1975 by Planning and Budget Office.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
TEMPORARY ADMISSION REGIME
Background
1.        The "Temporary Admission Regime" (Admision Temporaria) was
established by Laws Nos. 3816 and 4268 of July 15, 1911, and October 12,
1912. The procedures and regulations governing "temporary admissions"
were approved by decree on May 25, 1961. "Temporary admissions" did not
become operational until late 1971, when the Ministry of Industry and
1Unergy began to promote manufactured exports.
2.        "Temporary admission" is an export promotion scheme permitting
the importation of raw materials and sub-assemblies, free of taxes, with
the condition that they are substantially processed and re-exported within
a predetermined period of time. Eligible for "temporary admission" are
imports of raw materials, containers and packing materials to be used in
export products, and dies and molds to be used temporarily to produce
metal and plastic articles for non-traditional exports. Also included
are spare parts, sub-assemblies and motors for industrial plants, and
a few other categories of imports of non-industrial products. Only imports
of raw materials, spare parts, sub-assemblies, containers and packing
materials would be eligible for financing under the proposed Bank loan.
Procedures and Administration
3.        An industrial export enterprise must demonstrate that the raw
materials and parts it proposes to import under "temporary admission" are
going to be substantially processed into an export product. Before importing,
the firm must obtain a license from the Laboratory of Technological Analysis of
Uruguay (Laboratorio de Analisis Tecnologico del Uruguay) of the M4inistry of
Industry and Energy, declaring in a sworn statement the nature of the material
to be importued; quantities; c.i.f. value of imports; import costs; proportion of
value of imported mnaterials in the composition of the article to be exported; pro-
portion and value of local materials in, the finished product; time required
for production and sale abroad; percentage of waste and reusable waste;
industrial capacity; estimated internal consumption; f.o.b. value of exports
resulting from the items imported under "temporary admission"; ctuntry to
which products are to be exported; and status of previous "temporary admission"
for the same product when the new application is made.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4 pages
4.        The Laboratory of Technological Analysis is responsible for the
supervision of the operation. In October, 1974, the Ministry delegated
the authority to approve and deny permits for "temporary admission" to
the President of the Laboratory of Analysis and Testing. Technicians
from the Laboratory supervise closely the fulfillment of the obligations
of each enterprise benefitting from "temporary admission". The costs of
this supervision are covered by a charge of one percent on the value c.i.f.
of "temporary admission" imports, which must be deposited in the Bank of the
Republic prior to the presentation of the import document and credited to the
Laboratory's account.
5.        If the firm has not made the agreed upon export within a specified
period of time, the Ministry orders the imports nationalized and the respect-
ive taxes paid. To this effect, the enterprise must deposit a guarantee in
cash or in bond of 5% of the value of the operation in the Bank of the
Republic, which is refunded upon presentation of a certificate from the
Ministry that the operation has been satisfactorily concluded. Partici-
pating firms are required to carry separate books for recording transactions
under "temporary admission", which are reviewed periodically by staff of the
Laboratory of Analysis and Testing. Inventories of raw material imports
under "temporary admission" should be clearly identified from others and
be available for inspection.
6.        When raw materials or parts for which "temporary admission" is
requested are available in the domestic market in similar conditions
(quality, quantity and price), the opinion of the Chamber of Industries
is sought before approving the application. This is designed to give a
fair chance to local producers to bid on the orders. This is a relatively
expeditious process because the Laboratory has on its Board of Directors
several representatives of the private industrial community.   In fact, the
Laboratory is funded entirely by the private sector, through the services
it provides to industrial enterprises analyzing the quality of their products,
providing certification of export quality, and supervising "temporary
admission" operations. The technical competence and integrity of the staff
of the Laboratory is highly regarded by the industrial community. Only in
very rare cases (less than 1% of the products involved in "temporary
admission") firms are denied the application and forced to buy domestic
products. The average time to process an application for "temporary
admission" is less than 10 days.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4 pages
Table 1: DISTRIBUTION, BY VALUE, OF INDUSTRY DEKAND FOR TEMPORARY
IMPORTS DESTINED FOR RE-EXPORT
(In percent of total)
Industry Sub-group                           1973      197h       1975
Leather and Leather Products                      35         31        55
(of which, imports of leather & hides)        (--)      (03)       (29)
Vehicle Tires and Rubber Products                   6        17         9
Textiles                                          11          8         8
Auto Parts                                         10        10         5
Packaging, Containers & Glass Products              5         8         5
Metal, Paper and Other                             13         4         5
Chemicals and Fertilizers                          6          2         5
Auto Assembly                                       2         7         1
Electric & Electronic Equip.                        5         8         2
Meat Packing & Processing                           7         5         2
Total                                         100        100       100
Total of Applications
(in millions of U.S. dollars)                 $13.9     $23.8      $4o. a
/a  Estimated on basis of applications filed during first semester 1975.
Source:  Laboratory of Technological Analysis of Uruguay, Ministry of Industry
and Energy.



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4 pages
Table 2: A.PPLICATION FOR AND IMPORTS UNDER
TEMPORARY ADHISSIONS SYSTEM
1971-75 AND PROJECTED 1976
(in millions of US dollars)
Approved                Actual
Applications              Imports
1971                             n.a.                     7.7
1972                             n.a.                     8.9
1973                            13.9                      9.9
1974                            23.8                     22.1
1975 (estimated)                40.0 a/                  32.0 b/
1976 (projected)                58.0                      52.0
a/ Estimated on the basis of first semester approvals. Includes some $11
million of approvals to import finished or semi-finished leather to
supplement domestic supplies.
b/ Estimated on the basis of trade data; January-April 1975. It assumes
that only some $5-6 million of requests to import finished leather will
actually take place, the rest being supplied by domestic sources.
Note: The value of applications increased from US$23.8 million in the whole
of 1974 to over US$24 million in the first semester of 1975. The latter figure,
however, contained applications to import some US$11 million of crude and
finished hides and leather while this type of import had been negligible in
1974. Due to the low volume of cattle slaughter in early 1975, domestic
supplies of hides became limited and, with governent approval, leather goods
producers sought raw materials abroad. On world markets, however, leathers
of the required quality and cost are not in good supply. An allowance for
this was made in estimating total temporary admissions imports for 1975. For
1976, it ls expected that leather products manufacturers will bid for and
receive a larger share of their needs from domnestic suppliers, reducing their
need to import.
Source: Ministry of Industry and Ehergy and trade data of Bank of the Republic
of Uruguay.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PROCEDURES OF THE INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROMOTION FUND
A. PURPOSE
1.        An Industrial Export Promotion Fund, (hereinafter called the
Fund) will be established in the Central Bank of Uruguay and will be used
exclusively for the financing of:
(a) The importation of raw materials and other components
by non-traditional export industries under the
"Temporary Admission Regime";
(b) The procurement of imported machinery and equipment and
permanent working capital for specific investment
projects of non-traditional export industries;
(c)  The procurement of domestic equipment, machinery,
permanent working capital, and associated services
required for investment projects of non-traditional
export industries; and
(d) Technical assistance related to the appraisal of export
projects and to the preparation of export promotion
programs and sector studies.
B.  SOURCES AND USE OF THE FUND's RESOURCES
2.        For the operations financed out of the Fund, the following
resources will be available:
(a) Proceeds of the Bank loan for financing "Temporary
Admission" imports and medium- and long-term credits
in foreign currency for the renovation and expansion
of plant capacity.
(b) Interest and principal payments stemming from the Fund's
outstanding loan portfolio;
(c) Resources provided by the Borrower or the Central Bank
to finance medium- and long-term credits in local currency
for plant renovation and expansion; and
(d) Any other resources provided by international or bilateral
external sources'for financing industrial export projects.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8 pages
3.        The Fund will be divided into four subsidiary accounts, as
follows:
(a)  Account "AA" (in US dollars).  A revolving line of
credit exclusively for the financing of imports under
the "Temporary Admission Regime".
(b)  Account "B" (in US dollars equivalent). A line of
credit to provide medium- and long-term credit to non-
traditional export industries to finance imported
machinery and equipment and permanent working capital,
and associated services for the renovation and expansion
of existing production facilities and establishment of
new ones.
(c)  Account "C" (in local currency).  A line of credit to
provide medium- and long-term credit to non-traditional
export industries to finance local currency costs related
to project implementation and start up, purchase of
locally manufactured machinery and equipment, industrial
premises, and permanent working capital.
(d) Account "ID" (in US dollars). A record keeping account for
aih technical assistance consisting of experts on short-
term assignments and consultants' services to: (i) provide
special expertise in connection with the evaluation of
specific project proposals for which exporting industries
are requesting medium- and long-term financing; (ii) assist in
the formulation and implementation of an export promotion
program and, (iii) undertake specific studies to assist the
Government in relation to the economic liberalization program
and the reduction of the effective level of protection to
domestic industries.
C. THE ADMINISTRATION OF THiE FUND
4.        The Fund will be located in and administered by the Central Bank
of Uruguay. In its administrator's capacity the Central Bank will be respons-
ible for handling all of the Fund's financial transactions and will have the
following functions:
(a) To be the depository of the resources of the Fund;
(b) To establish and maintain an accounting system to record
and itemize government contributions to the Fund, domestic
and external loans and any other resources paid into the
Fund.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8 pages
(c)  To keep the accounts of loans made with the Fund resources,
noting in each case the details regarding the source and
use of the funds, and commissions, fees and interest
received.
(d) To make the routine collections of principal and interest
due by the participating commercial banks.
(e) To establish, in coordination with the Coordinating
Committee, the Advisory Group, the Laboratory of Analysis
and Testing and the National Planning Office, systems for
approving, recording and controlling the various operations
financed out of the Fund. As part of this function the
Central Bank will prepare quarterly operational and
financial statements of the Fund (copy of these state-
ments will be furnished to the Bank no later than 45 days
after the end of each such quarter).
5.        On account of its services the Central Bank will pay itself out
of the Fund's resources a commission of one-half percent per annum of the
loans outstanding under Account "A".
D. PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND AGENCIES
6.        To carry out the Fund's objectives, the Central Bank will be
assisted by the Laboratory of Analysis and Testing, the Coordinating
Committee, the Advisory Group in the Ministry of Industry and Energy, the
commercial banks, and the National Planning and Budgeting Office.
7.        The Laboratory of Technolog-ical Analysis of Uruguay (hereinafter called
the Laboratory) will administer the importati-on of raw materials and related
goods under the system of "Temporary Admissions". In that capacity, the
Laboratory will be responsible for the technical implementation and super-
vision of the operations financed under Account "A". Its President will
have the attribution to extend or cancel the operation of "Temporary
Admission" imports for which financing will be or has been provided by the
Fund. The Laboratory's technicians will supervise closely and report on
the fulfillment of the requirements of the processing and export obligations
by each of the enterprises benefitting from the scheme. The costs of this
supervision will be covered by a charge of one percent of the C.I.F. value
of the importation made, accruing to the Laboratory and deposited by the
importer in the Bank of the Republic prior to the presentation of the
import documents.
8.        The Coordinating Committee (hereinafter called the Committee)
will be the executing agency for the operations carried out under the Fund's
Accounts "B" and "C". In that capacity, it will exercise approval authority
on all projects submitted for its consideration by the Advisory Group and will
authorize ultimate beneficiaries through the commercial bank of their choice



AMrNEX VI
Page 4 of 8 pages
to draw from the above accounts.  The Committee will be composed of a
representative each from the Central Lanl, who would act as Chairman,
the tfinistry of Industvry and Energy, the Ministry of Econormv and Finance,
and the Planning and Budgeting Office. The Committee's members and their
alternates will be appointed for renewable two-year terms and will be
required to meet minimum professional and technical qualifications giving
particular emphasis to their experience in both the industrial and financial
sectors. A quorum for the committee meetings will be three members. Minutes
will be drawn up of each Coordinating Committee meeting and the Advisory
Unit's appraisal reports related to proposed loans will have to be available
to participat ng members at least three days prior to such meetings. Comm-
ittee decisions will require at least three affirmative votes. Detailed
terms of reference will govern the responsibilities and procedures of the
Committee. Reports required by the Committee will be treated as confidential
and, accordingly, will not be divulged outside the Committee. As part of
its functions and with the assistance of the Advisory Group the Coordinating
Committee will prepare quarterly operational statements (the format and
scope of these statements still have to be agreed with the Bank; a copy of
them will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of
each quarter).
9.        The Advisory aroup in the Ministry of Industry and Energy will
be given responsibility for (i) assessing the technical, financial and
economic viability of export projects for which capital goods and permanent
working capital financing will be sought under the Fund's Accounts "B" and
"C"; (ii) making written recommendations to the Coordinating Committee on
the terms and conditions under which such projects should be financed under
the Fund and supervising with the assistance of the commercial banks and
other government agencies, as appropriate, the export projects financed
under the Fund's Accounts "B" and "C"; and (iii) To carry out these functions,
the Advisory Group will be assisted by the Technical Assistance Unit in the
Ministry of Industry and Energy which will be placed under its direct
authority for that exclusive purpose.
10.       The commercial banks (Bank of the Republic and other private
commercial banks) will act as the Fund's financial intermediaries for all
onlending operations approved under the Fund's Accounts "A", "B", and "C".
To participate under the Fund's financing schemes, commercial banks will be
reouired to be in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks and to
agree to assist the Advisory Group and its techmical assistance unit, when-
ever appropriate, in appraislng and supervising projects financed under the
above accounts. Loans made by commercial banks out of Fund's resources will
be (i) exempt from the 8.2< tax on banking activity and from the ceilings
imposed on bank lending; and (ii) under Accounts "B" and "C", be covered
up to a maximum of 60.J of their total by an insurance credit scheme.



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8 pages
11.       The Planning and Budgeting Office.   The Planning and Budgeting
Office will administer the Technical Assistance Component of the Bank loan.
In that capacity, it will have responsibility for   (i) reviewing and
approving all technical assistance projects; and (ii) authorizing and
requesting reimbursements through the Central Bank for the cost of specific
technical assistance projects.
E. OPERATING PROCEDURES
12.       Account A: A non-traditional exporting enterprise will request from
the Ministry of Industry and Energy (Laboratory of Analysis and Testing)
authorization to import needed inputs under "Temporary Admission". In so
doing, the enterprise will make a sworn statement about the nature of
material to be imported; quantities; c.i.f. value of imports; importation
costs; proportion and value of imported materials in the composition of the
article to be exported; proportion and value of imported materials in the
finished product; time required for production and for sale abroad; percentage
of waste and reusable waste; industrial capacity; estimated internal con-
sumption; f.o.b. value of exports resulting from the items imported under the
"Temporary Admission"; country to which products are to be exported; and
status of previous "Temporary Admission" for the same product when the new
application is made. Upon the Ministry's authorization, the enterprise will
arrange a US dollar credit with a commercial bank to pay for the imports.
Once the import takes place and the foreign supplier is paid, the commercial
bank will apply for a rediscount from the Fund's Account "A". To this end,
the commercial bank will furnish the Central Bank with:
(a) a properly endorsed debt instrument;
(b)  a copy of the resolution of the Ministry of Industry and
Energy authorizing the "Temporary Admission" import;
(c)  import shipping documents; and
(d) evidence of payment to the foreign supplier.
Once the operation is approved, the Central Bank will credit the commercial
bankts foreign exchange account with the amount of the debt instrument.
13.       If a firm importing under "remporary Admission" has not carried
out the agreed upon export within the specified time (normally 6 to 13 months
after importation), the Laboratory will order the imports nationalized and
the respective taxes paid. To this effect, the enterprise will have to deposit
a guarantee in cash or in bond of 5 percent of the value of the operation in
the Bank of' the Republic, wThich vi]l be refunrdled uLpon presentation of a
certificate of the Laboratory that the operation has been satisfactorily
conc'luded.  Barticipating finns wilJ be required t.o carry separate books
for recordirg transEctions made under "remporary Admissiont", which wi,3 be



ANNEX vi
Page 6 of 8 pages
reviewed periodically by the LiboratoD     Inventories of imported raw
material imports under "Temporary Admissitn" will be kept separate from
others and be available for inspection by the LTboratory.
14.       When raw materials or parts for which "Temporary Admission" is
requested are available in the domestic market in similar conditions
(quality, quantity and price), the Chamber of Industries will be asked to
give an opinion about the suitability of the locally produced inputs for
the requirements of export products.
15.       Accounts "B" and "C".  Export enterprises seeking medium- and
long-term financing for plant renovation and expansion will submit a project
proposal to a commercial bank. In reviewing the project proposal the commercial
bank will ensure that it meets the eligibility criteria discussed in para-
graph 16 below, including financial soundness and credit risk of both the
project and the sponsor. Once the commercial bank is satisfied that the pro-
posal meets the above, it will pass it to the Advisory Unit in the Ministry
of Industry and Energy for review. The Advisory Group, through its
technical assistance unit, will assess the technical, economic and financial
viability of the proposal. Based on the outcome of this evaluation, the
Advisory Group will submit a complete appraisal report to the Coordinating
Committee, including inter alia,internal financial and economic rates of
return calculations, and recommended terms and conditions for the proposed
financing. The Coordinating Committee will review all projects, and after
approval, it will authorize commercial banks to draw from the Fund's Accounts
"B" and "C", as required.  The Advisory Group will be responsible for the
supervision of the project as it is being implemented.
16.       Projects eligible for financing will be those that   (a) create
new capacity or rehabilitate existing capacity for the production of non-
traditional exports (defined as all exports with the exception of unprocessed
meat, crude and semi-processed hides, greasy wool, grains, and in addition,
automobile assembly operations);  (b) generate enough net foreign exchange
earnings to repay the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, machinery,
an.d permanent working capital prior to the four-th quarter of their estimated
economic life or seven years, whichever is lower; and (c) export at least
40&5 of their output after the second year of operation.
17.       The Fund's aggregate financial assistance to any industrial export
enterprise for fixed improvements, both in foreign and local currency, will
not exceed 85% of total individual investment cost or US$1.0 million equivalent,
whichever is lower. The Fund will only finance export projects in the private
sector.



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8 pages
18.       Account "D". A Government agency interested in obtaining
financing for technical assistance will be required to submit a request
to the Planning and Budgeting Office, including the following information:
project background and supporting information, project objectives and organ-
ization, work plan, project cost and financing, and detailed terms of
reference. The Planning and Budgeting Office will review the application
and, after approving it,    will submit all pertinent documentation,
including a statement of approval, to the Central Bank for action. The
Central Bank will advance the necessary funds to initiate the work. The
Planning and Budgeting Office will be responsible for supervising the
ongoing technical assistance programs and for preparing progress reports
about each of them.
F. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LOANS
19.       Loans made out of the resources of the Fund will have the follow-
ing financing terms:
(a) Subloans for "Temporary Admission" Imports (Account "A")
(i) Payments of principal and interest will be made in
US dollars.
(ii)  Maximum amortization period:  completion of export
cycle.
(iii)  Maximum grace period:  Nil.
(iv) Annual rate of interest: 3-1/2%above London Inter-
bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for 180-day deposits pay-
able in US dollars, inclusive of all commissions,
taxes and any other charges.
The repayment terms will reflect the sub-borrower's esti-
mated foreign exchange flow position in accordance with
its export program, and will be for a period of not less
than 180 days. Principal and interest payments not
required to service external loans (IBRD) will be
retained in Account "A" and will be used exclusively to
make subloans under such Account.
(b) Subloans for the Importation of Machinery and Equipment
(Account "B")
(i) Payments of principal and interest will be made in
local currency on the basis of the US dollar
exchange rate prevailing on the official commercial
market at the date of each maturity.



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 8 pages
(ii) Maximum amortization period: 10 years.
(iii) Maximum grace period: 3 years.
(iv) Annual rate of interest: 11% inclusive of all
commissions, taxes and any other charges.
Principal and interest payments not required to service
external loans (IBRD and others) will be retained in local
currency in Account "C" and will be used only to make sub-
loans under such Account.
(c) Subloans in Local Currency to Complement Those for Imported
Machinery and Equipment (Account "C")
(i)  Payments of principal and interest will be made in
local currency.
(ii)  Maximum amortization period:   10 years.
(''') Maximum grace period: 3 years.
(iv)  Annual rate of interest: 11   inclusive of all
commissions, taxes and any other charges, plus monetary
correction.
Monetary correction will be based on the US dollar exchange
rate on the commercial market at the time of each maturity.



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMEIT AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
rHE BANKING SYSTEM
A. INTRODUCPION
1.        The Uruguayan banking system consists of five Government-owned
banks and 27 private cornnercial banks, eight of which are branches of
major foreign banks.  Of the Government banks, the most important ones
are the Central Bpnk (CB) and the Bank of the Republic (BIROU). The other
three are the Mortgage Bank, the National Postal Savings Bank, and the
State Insurance Bank. There is no comprehensive banking law in Uruguay;
BROU operates in accordance with the organic law of January 1939 and the
many additions and modifications thereto, while CB functions in accordance
with the Constitution of 1967 and its further legal amendments and
additions. Proposals to provide new laws for both BROU and CB have been
completed and await Government approval.
2.        In Uruguay there are also several "Casas Bancarias" which cannot
accept deposits but can make loans and have foreign credits, and "Caja
Popular" which cannot operate in foreign currency.
3.        Accelerated inflation, deterioration of the economy, general
decline in bank deposits, and restrictive credit policies have caused
private commercial banks considerable problems in recent years. Since
early 1970, 21 private commercial banks have declared bankruptcy, closed
business or have been liquidated or absorbed by CB and BROUo At present
there are 27 private commercial banks left and, perhaps this is still a
high number considering Uruguay's population of around 3 million people
and a GDP of US$2,500 million per annum.
B. THE CENTRAL BANK
General
4.        The CB was established in 1967 when the new Constitution required
that the Issue Department of BROU be separated from its parent organization
and set up independently as a central bank. Since that time, CB has taken
over various regulatory functions from BROU, such as the handling of most
official exchange transactions and the custody of commercial banks' reserve
deposits, but at the time the appraisal mission visited Uruguay, the
Government had not yet approved a unified organic law for CB so that it
still is governed by a great number of legal dispositions, including the
1939 organic law of BROU.



ANNEX VII
-Page 2 of 5 pages
Organization and Management
5.        CB is directed by a three-member Board of Directors appointed by
the President of the country in agreement with the Council of Ministers.
A General Manager, a General Auditor and Legal Department comprise the bank's
executive level, with five divisions reporting to the General Manager:
(a) the Financial Administration Division, divided into three Departments--
Credit, Treasury, and Public: (b) the Foreign Business Division; (c) the
Economic Studies Division; (d) the Accounting Administration Division; and
(e) the Banking System Controller Division. The CB is still in the process
of consolidating its organization and has not yet settled the patrimonial
accounts derived from its separation of BROU.
6.        Besides its responsibilities in connection with money issuance,
supply and control, CB is empowered to conduct all the functions typical
of central banks. Main activities, however, are related to stabilization
measures such as (a) control of interest rates to be paid for deposits or
charged for institutional credit;   (b) changes in the legal reserve requirements
of the banks; (c) foreign exchange rates and transactions; (d) financing
through rediscount operations; and (e) depository of funds derived from
the Bank-financed Livestock Development Program. CB is organizing a
division for the control and external audit of the banking system, with
the intention that it will replace the Tribunal de Cuentas (State Audit
Board) in such duties.
C. THE BANK OF THE REPUBLIC (BROU)
General
7.        BROU, established in 1896, is the most important credit bank in
Uruguay. It has 73 branches in the country and five agencies in Montevideo,
where it also has its headquarters. As an all-purpose bank, BROU provides
banking services and finance to all Government entities and finances the
private sector for the development of agriculturfe, industry, fisheries,
commerce, tourism and almost any other type of undertaking. One of its
major activities is related to foreign credit and foreign business
transactions connected with import and export commerce.
8.        As of the first of January 1974, BROU began operating under a
new organizational structure and a new organic law, largely approved by
Government although minor issues concerning division of functions with CB
remain to be solved. Over 75% of BROU's assets and liabilities repres2t
Government transactions.   Except for resources from Plan Agropecuario,..
funds to finance the private sector are of a short-term nature.
1/ An organization established in 1959 by the Government for the purpose
of implementing a program to improve technology in agriculture. Its
work started in 1961 in conjunction with the effectiveness of Bank
loan 245-UR and it has since administered all five Bank livestock
development projects in Uruguay.



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5 pages
9.        The BROU performed the role of the CB until this was created in
1967, and still continues some of those functions. It is not subject to
reserve requirements for official deposits and it has to keep a minimum
fixed reserve of 20 percent for private deposits--in lieu of the normal
reserve requirement regulations issued by the Central Bank. The BROU also
received on behalf of the CB, until July 1, 1975, import deposits made to
obtain an exchange rate guarantee during the six-month period of foreign
financing required for most imports. These deposits provided the BROU
with an important source of loanable funds.
Credit to Industrial Sector
10.       BROU provides funds to industry through three of its Departments:
(i) The Development Division/Industrial Credit Department is concerned
with the financing of working capital requirements and local raw materials
of the industrial sector. The operations of this department follow a
strict commercial banking approach. No technical assistance is provided
to clients; (ii) The Development Division/Credit Promotion Department
which provides term financing of industrial projects which produce sub-
stantial benefit to the country. Processing of loan applications is
usually exceptionally slow due to excessive bureaucracy. IDB had to
cancel in 1974 its US$6 million small and medium industry development
loan made in 1970 for channeling through this Division due to unsatis-
factory performance; (iii) The Banking Business Division/Foreign Trade
Department is concerned with the financing of import and export transactions.
Existing lines of credit are limited by the Government's budgetary alloca-
tions, special requirements and restrictions of BROU itself, and by the
current stabilization program ceilings on domestic credit expansion.
D   PRIVATE BANKS
11.       Overall, the 27 private commercial banks have 162 offices in
Montevideo and 158 in the rest of the country, or a total of 320 banking
establishments. The number of private banks has declined steadily in the
past nine years. In 1963 there were 81 banks with 590 branches, but the
number was reduced to 67 in 1966. Since its establishment CB has encouraged
bank mergers and the reduction of branches. During the past four years,
the private banks' participation in total lending to the private sector has
been of the order of 50%. Practically all lending by private banks is now
for the private sector. It is also all short-term credit; 90% of the loans
are for under 180 days and a great number for only 30 days. From 25% to
30% of the loan portfolio is classified as loans to the agricultural sector,
about 50% to the industrial sector and the rest to commerce and various
other activities. In reality, practically all lending by the private banks
is to finance marketing and commercialization of the production of the
different sectors and cannot be considered as production loans.



ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 5 pages
120       Five private banks in financial difficulties were intervened
by the CD during 1971 and 1972. They have been receiving special assist-
ance from the CB, and minimum reserve requirements do not apply to them.
Three are administered by the BROU and it is planned to rehabilitate them;
the other two will be closed down.
E. INTEREST RATES
13.       Most interest rates have been considerably lower than the rate
of inflation in the past three years. Because of the jump in the rate of
inflation during the final months of 1974, even the sharp increases in
interest rates late in the year were not enough to bring about positive
real interest rates.
14.       Effective September 25, 1974, the maximum annual interest rate
(payable in advance) which commercial banks can charge on peso loans was
raised from 24 percent to 32 percent. Maximum authorized bank commissions
(also payable in advance) were reduced from 10 percent to 6 percent. The
effective cost to the borrower thus increased from a maximum of 51.5 per-
cent (66.6 percent including the 6 percent tax on financial transactions)
to 61.3 percent (78.6 percent inc'uding the tax). The annual interest
rate for loans in foreign currency was reduced from 16.5 to 14 percent in
July 1, 1975. Based on the rate of devaluation in the previous year, the
cost of borrowing in foreign currency was well in excess of 100 percent.
Interest rate for savings and time deposits was increased by 10 to 23
percentage points, and ranged up to 48 percent for time deposits of one
year or over.
15.       In October 1974 the BROU increased its general rates for lending
to the private sector from a range of 20-24 percent to a range of 24-32
percent payable in advance (an effective rate of 42.9-706 percent, includ-
ing commissions and the tax on financial transactions). The BROU has
promotional rates for financing exports (15-17 percent) and special rates
for financing meat-packing houses (17-21 percent).
F. RESERVE REQUIREMENTS
16.       Effective October 1, 1974, reserve requirements for local
currency deposits were reduced from 40 percent to 30 percent on demand
deposits, and from 20 percent to 10 percent on savings deposits and time
deposits up to 360 days. Requirements for local currency deposits of more
than 360 days and for foreign currency deposits were not changed, remaining
at 10 percent and 20 percent, respectively. Effective February 1975, banks
have to keep an additional 40 percent reserve on the excess of deposits
over their average December 1974 level. This additional reserve must be
deposited with the Central Bank, either in the form of special demand
deposits yielding 20 percent interest or national currency denominated
Treasury notes. Effective October 1, 1974, the permitted ratio of each
bank's local currency deposits (excluding deposits of over a year) to
capital and reserves had been increased from 15 times to 16 times--
deposits beyond that limit being subject to 100 percent reserve require-
ments.



ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 5 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
Accounts of the Commercial Bankas/
(In billions of Uruguayan pesos)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974_/
Net foreign assets                     -13.0      -3.7     -10.7     -12.8     -15,1
Foreign assets                         Y.1     -7.3       13.9 T. 7
Foreign liabilities                  -22.1     -11.0     -24.6     -35.0      -46.3
Claims on Central Bank, net              3.8      -0.7       8.3      25.6      39.7
Currency                               3.d       4.1      5WT       167       30.4
Deposits                               6.3       9.7      26.6      53.7      96.2
In local currency                 ( 4.9)    ( 7.4)    ( 12.2)   ( 28.2)    ( 43.7)
In foreign currency               ( 1.4)    ( 2.3)    ( 14.4)   ( 25.5)    ( 52.5)
Other claims                           0.3       0.5       2.1       3.1       5.2
Liabilities (-), of which             -6.6     -15.3     -28.5     -47.9      -92.1
Rediscounts                       ( -1.8)   ( -2.9)   ( -5.6)    (-16.0)   (-31.8)
Special aid                       ( -2.4)   ( -8.8)   ( -8.1)    (-10.2)   (... )
Net domestic credit                     58.1      73.5     128.3     211.6      374.2
Central Government                     2.9       5.3       F.6      13.9       20.7
In local currency                 ( 0.4)    ( 3.0)    ( 3.6)     ( 5.9)    ( 7.5)
In foreign currency               ( 2.5)    ( 2.3)    ( 5.0)     ( 8.0)    ( 13.0)
Rest of public sector                 -0.5      -0.4      -0.5       -1.0      -1.8
In local currency                 ( -0.5    ( -0.4)   ( -0.5)    ( -1.0)   ( -1.8)
In foreign currency                  - - )     --_  )  (  -- )   (  -- )   (  -- )
Official banks, net                    1.5       2.6        3.6       7.9      13.3
In local currency                 ( 1.4)    ( 2.6)    ( 3.6)     ( 709)    ( 13.3)
In foreign currency               (0.1)      (-- )     (-- )     (-- )     (-- )
Private sector                        47.7      58.8     129.4      209.3     380.0
In local currency                 ( 28.8)    ( 46.0)   ( 84.4)   (160.4)   (280.8)
In foreign currency               ( 18.8)   ( 12.8)   ( 45.0)    ( 48.9)   ( 99.2)
Unclassified                           6.5        7.2     -12.8     -18.5     -37.8
Monetary liabilities                    48.9      69.1     125.9      224.4     398.8
Demand deposits-                      17.4       28.0     55.       105.8     174.2
Time deposits                         24.0      33.0      45.0      83.0      131,4
Foreign currency deposits              7.5       8.1       25.7      35.6      93.2
1/ Domestic assets-and liabilities in foreign currency are valued at the exchange
rate at the end of period.
2/ Preliminary.
Source: Central Bank of Uruguay and International Monetary Fund.



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5 pages
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EPORT EXPANSION PROJECT
DRAFT R:ESOLUTION OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
GUARANTEE F1JND
The Government of Uruguay proposes to set up, through the Central
Bank, an industrial Credit Guarantee Fund (hereinafter called "the Fund")
for the purpose of covering part of the risk that private and public
commercial banks would assume in granting medium- and long-term loans
to manufacturing enterprises which do not have suitable access to instit-
utional credit because of inadequate collaterals.
I. THE FUND
1.1 Duration: The Fund shall be of indefinite duration unless the Central
Bank, by prior agreement with the Government of Uruguay, decides to discon-
tinue its efforts and to terminate the Fund.
1.2 Amount and Composition: The capital of the Fund shall consist of con-
tributions made by the National Government through the Ministry of Finance.
Under such a capitalization the Fund shall initially comprise commitments
of the Government of Uruguay for not less than US$h million in gold or con-
vertible currencies which shall be increased as and when necessary in order
to maintain a minimum ratio of 1 to 3 between the resources of the Fund and
the amount of loans guaranteed. In addition to these commitments the F,und
shall comprise:
(a) the guarantee commissions referred to in Article 2.2 of this
Resolution; and
(b) amounts recovered against delinquent loans in cases in which the
Fund has paid up the amount of the guarantee to the commercial
bank (hereinafter called Participating Bank).
1.3 Use of the Income and Resources of the Fund: The entirety of the Fund's
annual income shall be used to defray the administrative costs and obligations
incurred by the Central Bank in its guarantee operations. The accumulated
surplus of the Fund may be invested at the discretion of its management in
highly profitable investments in the Republic of Uruguay. In addition, to
avoid possible falls in the value of the %und, the resources referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Article 1.2 above shall be converted immediately
after they have been received into convertible currencies.



ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5 pages
II.  THE GUkRANTEE
2.1 General: Subject to the provisions described herein, the Central
Bank may extend to Participating Banks against a guarantee commission
described hereinafter, a credit risk coverage of up to 60% of overdue
principal and interest (hereinafter called "the loan") which shall have
been continuously delinquent (hereinafter called "delinquent loan") without
complete payment of the prescribed principal and interest amounts for a
period of time as specified hereunder. Nevertheless, in order to diversify
and minimize the risk borne by the Fund, the maximum guarantee given by the
Central Bank for individual loans made by the Participating Banks shall not
exceed 15% of the resources committed by the Government of Uruguay to the
Fund. In addition, only loans to finance projects evaluated and approved
by Technical Assistance Agencies indicated at the time of authorization
or opening of lines of credit covered by the Fund may be guaranteed.
2.2  Guarantee Comnission:  To safeguard the effectiveness and liquidity
of the Fund, a minimum guarantee commission of 2.5   shall be charged by the
Gentral Bank on the amount of each loan guaranteed. In the case of loans
made in foreign currencies, the commission shall be collected in Uruguayan
currency at the selling exchange rate prevailing on the commercial market
on the day of its payment.
2.3  The guarantee commission shall be paid by the Participating Bank
simultaneously with the first or sole payment that will be made by the
Gentral Bank, in accordance with the disbursement procedures prescribed
in the respective lines of credit covered by the Fund.
2 .4 Terms and Effectiveness of the Guarantee: The guarantee granted by
the Central Bank shall enter into effect on the date specified by the
Central Bank in the letter notifying approval of the guarantee request
submitted by the Participating Bank and shall extend for the maturity
period of the loan guaranteed.
2.5 In the event of default by a borrower, within 30 days after the maturity
of the loan or of its amortization instalments, the Participating Bank shall
notify the Central Bank of that fact so that the Central Bank, acting through
the appropriate Technical Assistance Agency, may check whether any deviation
exists in:
(a) the execution of the project and/or in its operation, management
and economic return, and
(b) the use of the proceeds of the loan.
2.6 If the default is beyond the control of the borrower, the Central Bank,
upon receipt of a refinancing proposal from the Participating Bank, may --
subject to the prior advice of the appropriate Technical Assistance Agency
-- approve new repayment formulas between the ultimate beneficiary and the
Participating Bank. If an unpaid amortization instalment is included in the
refinancing granted, the amount thereof shall be refunded to the Participating
Bank in accordance with such regulations as shall be issued for that purpose.



ANImEX VIII
Page 3 of 5 pages
2.7 For the purposes of Article 1.2 of this Resolution, the term
"Delinquent loan" shall be understood to mean a loan which has not been
repaid, or any amortization instalment which has not been paid in full,
after a lapse of six months following the maturity date of the loan or
of any instalment thereof, as the case may be.
2.8 Payment under the guarantee shall be made by the Central Bank within
five (5) working days following receipt-of the written request for guarantee
payment by the Participating Bank. In the case of loans made in foreign
currencies, the guarantee payment shall be made by converting the dollars
necessary to cover it into Uruguayan currency at the buying exchange rate
prevailing on the commercial market. For any payment request, the Partici-
pating Bank shall describe the delinquent loan, shall give precise details
of the arrears and shall certify that:
(a) the Participating Bank has initiated legal proceedings, using all
legal and other remedies available to it to recover the loan, if
the default is attributable to the borrower;
(b)  the Participating Bank has not received any repayment of principal
of the said loan during the delinquency period;
(c)  in the opinion of the Participating Bank, after careful study of
the situation of the borrower, the latter does not possess the
necessary resources to make full or partial repayment of the
delinquent loan.
2.9  Termination of Guarantee: The Guarantee may be terminated at any time
upon prior written notification by the Central Bank. However, such termination
shall apply only to loans for which:
(a)  statermnts made and commitments entered into by the Participating
Bank in a participation request are untrue or incorrect; or
(b) the Participating Bank violated any obligation entered into in
relation to its participation in the guarantee system.
2.10 Niature of the Guarantee: The Guarantee is an obligation of the Central
Bank. In accordance with the widest interpretation permitted by law, payments
made by the Central Bank under the provisions of the present document shall
not be subject to any rights, claims or pleas other than those that may arise
out of this Resolution. The Guarantee gives protection against partial loss
in the form specified herein and is not an insurance policy, a bond or a
payment guarantee. Consequently, the Participating Bank is obliged to pursue
its claims against the Borrower through the judicial process and with the
Guarantee Fund as beneficiary.
2.11 Limitations of the Guarantee: This Guarantee does not cover losses
resulting from fraud, false statement or negligence on the part of the
Participating Bank, its employees and/or its agents.
2.12 Recoveries against Delinquent Loans: Recoveries against delinquent
loans that have already been covered by the Central Bank in the circumstances



AM: -X VIII
Page 4 of 5 pages
provided for in this Resolution shall be applied as follows:
(a)  Legal costs and other expenses incurred in recovering the loan
shall first be defrayed; and
(b) Any residue shall be applied to the Fund and the Participating
Bank pro rata to the guarantee coverage.
2.13 The Participating Bank shall pay within forth-eight (48) working days
following the date of payment by the borrower the share of loan recoveries
due to the Guarantee Fund; in the event of delay in complying with this
obligation, a monthly surcharge shall be levied upon the amount of such
share which shall be equivalent to the maximrum effective rate in force for
placements within the banking system and shall be payable by the said
Participating Bank.
2.14 Representations by the Participating Bank: For the purposes and
objects of the guarantee, the statements made and agreements or obligations
entered into by a Participating Bank in writing in a guarantee proposal
shall be understood to imply acceptance of all the terms and conditions
of this Resolution.
III. THE LOAN
3.1 Loan Eligibility Criteria: A loan is eligible to be guaranteed and
may be included under the guarantee provided that:
(a)  it is granted by the Participating Bank to finance investment
projects considered to be of priority for Uruguay's economic
development;
(b) the ultimate beneficiary is in a position to offer the Participating
Bank real security for at least the equivalent of 1.2 times the
amount of the loan requested. Exceptionally, the Fund shall
guarantee loans for which the real security offered to the
Participating Bank exceeds 2.0 times the amount of the loan
requested; and
(c) it does not entail refinancing of an existing loan, except as
stipulated in Article 2.6 of this Resolution.
3.2 Assignment: The Participating Bank may assign or endorse any loan
included under the guarantee provided that the Participating Bank continues
to guarantee compliance with all the obligations contracted by the borrower
in relation to such loan.
IV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
4.1  Inspection of Loan Files and Pro.jects:  The Participating Bank shall
maintain the books and files related to the loans included under the
guarantee and to any additional real and/or fiduciary security for such
loans.



AL TEX VIII
Page 5 of 5 pages
4.2  Penalties:  In the event of delay by ar. ultimate beneficiary in
complying with his obligations under the Dund, the Central Bank may
prohibit all credit assistance to it within the banking system for so
long as that situation subsists.
1.3 Any Participating Bank that fails to initiate the legal proceedings
referred to in Article 2.8, or that grants loans in violation of the
provisions of Article 4.2, shall be barred fram all operations with the
Fund, without prejudice to any penalties to which it may be liable under
the provisions of Part I of Volume VII of the Digest of Foreign Trade and
Exchange Regulations (Recopilacion de 14ormas de Comercio Exterior y Cambios).



AEMIEX IX
URUGUAY
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EXPORT EXPANSION LOAN
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan (Us$'000)
Capital Goods
Financing and
Bank Fiscal          Imported Working     Technical          Cumulative      Balance
Year and Quarter       Capital Financing   Assistance       Amount Disbursed   of Loan
1976
March 31, 1976            10,000                               10,000           25,000
June 30, 1976             15,000                _              15,000           20,000
197
September 30, 1976        20,000                100            20,100           14,900
December 31, 1976         24,500                400            24,900           10,100
March 31, 1977                                  900            25,400            9,600
June 30, 1977                                 1,500            26,000            9,000
1978
September 30, 1977                            2,200            26,700            8,300
December 31, 1977                             2,800            27,300            7,700
March 31, 1978                                3,500            28,000            7,000
June 30, 1978                                 4,300            28,800            6,200
September 30, 1978                            5,000            29,500            5,500
December 31, 1978                             6,500             31,000           4,ooo
March 31, 1979                                7,500             32,000           3,000
June 30, 1979                                 9,000             33,500           1,500
1980
September 30, 1979                           10,000             34,500             500
December 31, 1979                            10,500             35,000             -



,>---  9    @es                                 ~U RUGUAY-
Moan Roods
Secondary Roods                       /
t   h   /  S at                                 L   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads*1
} \\ v / \ % * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moin Airports i
:   Secondory Airports
s})j; asUtuarnA<,,  s_>_>)/ _y_ ~~~~~~~~~t  X J  #) \<  @ ~~ Ports                      A.
-- - - Department Boundaries
Zt/ c         <>t,            J \> / (      \ 9R'                 |   -Internotional Boundaries                   /
N~~~  S A l T 0<   t   1 )   \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Rivers                  f     o 
A L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Vrhoe.ro+  K    ~~~KILOMrtfEs
>. \\ \l /<>J R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                         V  * /'r-- <
32-
< < \| --' <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     Bonco5 '        I ,, 
12'  rr_  )  -X A Y S A N D U      Si                       ,-9'             ,                                            32
U-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
)1~nio~  SO.  NO  Tn~~OdRIO*-R. 13-
%\ _ W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                   ACUAR   E   I   N   C1T i< 
Xt        ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ me norr /'pd
'- ''    O          C..JDO            F O   ID    d e        S  e cD     e /  4  Ci4                 0/         I         by _ h
COLONDA -,  i  SE  A ZN      T,,    i Tai             e .ieorao                                 r
R E                                                 ChMn  /                0 ime-ica
-en,      soi~,,    ii              3          /            e    CBO  PCF  ONt
an ~~~~~~~                                    sr                                52    '2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S- 



