Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(<~lq V43- (J5
Reqt No. P-3691-UG
REPON! MND lEDA5IED3IO
or TME
PRESXDENT OF THE
IliTID  DEVELOPUEtIT ASSOZO
TO TIM
EXECUTI  DIRECTORS
PROCFSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.2 IMILLOBiI
TO THE
REpuBLC OP UG_ND
FOR A
SECOUD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJCT
December 5, 1983
I  M  dmuut   a restid  ihedm  md my be moed by rec_lmlumb. im the Pfmmme O  i
,'ir oIla idi  lb mhamb mimy ng dbwu be ilicimi witbeu Werd Bak _mihahi.



Currency Equivalents
Currency uit               -Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$ 1.00                   -               lSh 150 (First Window)
US$ 1.00                   -               lSb 280 (Second  idow)
USh 1.00                                   U 1S$ 0.0067 (First Window)
USh 1.00                   -               US$ 0.0036 (Second WLndow)
SDR 1.00                   -               US$ 1.05928
From October 1975 to May 1981, the Ugandan shilling as tied to the Special
rawingW Right (SDR) of the IMP (SDR 1.00 - USh 9.66). Hoekver, the Ugandan
shilling was devalued by 9O1 in June 1981 and has subeqUeutly been
floating in relation to a basket of currencies. Since August 1982, the Bank
of Uganda bas operated a dual ezchange rate systes, including a second
window at which foreign exchange ist traded mre freely.
Abbreviations
CPTC          '            Coolth Pnd for Technical Cooperatiot
EDI           -            Ecomic Developmat Institute
ESAT                       Z Eastern and Southern African NMaagement
Institute
IPA           -            Institute for Public Administration
liPID         -Ministry of Planing and Economic Development
NIM           -            M1nistry of Power, Posts and Teleications
OPE           -            Office of Project Exection of lJDP
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
-i-.
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUffARY
Borrower:             Republic of Uganda.
Anount:               SDR 14.2 (US$ 15.0) million equivalent.
Terms:                Standard.
Project Objectives    The project aims at:
and Description:
(a) strengthening the Government's decision making,
planning, project preparatiou and
implementation capabilities through external
assistance; and
(b) transferring skills to Ugandans through
training.
To achieve these objectives, it would finance
technical expertise provided by expatriate advisers
or consulting firms, training and equipment.
Risk:                 The main risk facing the project is possible delays
resulting from the Government's weak administrative
apparatus which hampers dec.sion making. The project
addresses this risk directly by providing technical
assistance in key areas of economic management. A
second risk is the difficulties encountered in
recruitment of long-term experts due to the difficult
living conditions and security situation in the
country. The project is therefore designed to break
sub-projects, where appropriate, into phases
utilizing more short-term experts which are easier to
hire.
Estimated
Project Costs:                                   Local  Foreign  Total
- US$ Million-
Technical Assistance                          1.6      8.8    10.4
Training                                      0.3      3.2     3.5
Vehicles and Support Equipment                0.2      3.0     3.2
Total Project Cost                       2.1     15.0    17.1
(net of taxes)
Ihis document has a resuicted distnbution and may be used by reipients only i te performnce of
theiir ofrica duties. Its contents may nototherwise be dicosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Financing                                            Local  Forein  Total
-in US$ million-
Plan:
Proposed IDA Credit                               -      15.0      15.0
Government of Uganda                             2.1       -        2.1
Total Project Cost                         2.1      15.0      17.1
Estimated                                  FY84   FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88
Disbursements:        Annual               0.20   2.50   5.30    4.50    2.50
Cumulative           0.20   2.70   8.00   12.50   15.00
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:    None.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for SDR 14.2 (US$15) million
equivalent on standard IDA terms to help finance a second technical
assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in May-June 1983 and its
report, entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" will be distributed
to the Executive Directors shortly. A summary of social and economic data
is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
(a) a favorable climate, fertile soils and rich mineral base for
economic development;
(b) an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
(c) a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
{d) a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzania under the East African Common Service
Organization (EACSO) which later on became the East African
Community (EAC);
(e) an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f) one of the most advanced education systems in East Africa.
The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real GDP grew by 4.8% per annum from 1963 to
1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at least 2% per annum.
The country was also able to maintain a reasonable savings rate (averaging
13%) which permitted implementation of an ambitious investment program
without undue pressure on domestic prices or the balance of paymeuts.
Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly, export earnings were more
than adequate to cover import requirements and the country maintained a
current account surplus in most years. The Government's budgetary position



was also sotmd: revenue increased faster than recurrent expenditure during
the latter half of the 1960s and, together with non-bank domestic borrow-
ing, helped finance a significant proportion of development outlays.
4.        However, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tion were eroded. On top of these largely self-imposed problems, the
Ugandan economy was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise
in petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the
damage and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war.  As a result of
these developments, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the
next three years. Import levels had to be cut by 50X from 1970 to 1979,
due to lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the
coffee boom years of 1977-79) and dwindling aid receipts. The Government's
budgetary position also became increasingly untenable, as the revenue base
was undermined and expenditure control collapsed. The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
and price inflation (averaging 74% per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large share of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
..magendo".
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constrained by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses
and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the ad-
verse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100% per annum. Then, in mid 1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Ugandan shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the IMF and other donors, further policy reforms
have been introduced over the past two years (see paragraphs 7 to 10). As
a result, there has been a marked improvement in economic performance,
despite the negative impact of internal security problems and adverse
conditions in the world economy. The difficult security situation results
from the disintegration of law and order during the 1970s and the need to
rebuild the security forces after the 1978-79 war. Although most of the
country is now at peace, periodic incidents of violence continue to occur,
especially in the areas surrounding Kampala, disrupting production and
transport activities and diverting budgetary resources for security-related
activities. As regards the world economy, although Uganda's terms of trade
have improved since 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks
achieved during the coffee boom years of 1978-79, and only 60% of the level
in 1970. Equally important, Uganda's export earnings are now constrained
by the quotas on coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee
Agreement (ICA). During 1982/83, for example, Uganda's estimated coffee
production was 40% higher than the quota limit; the balance was either
stocked or sold on non-quota markets at discounts of up to 50%. The
combination of economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed



countries has also affected the availability of external assistance.  For
Uganda, aid mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy
of international isolation imposed during the 1970s and the continuing
concern overseas about the security situation in the country.
6.        The economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators.
(a)  GDP grew on average by 5% per annum during 1981 and 1982, and
this growth rate was probably sustained into 1983. The recovery
was initially concentrated in subsistence agriculture but has
been more generalized over the past two years.
(b)  Export volumes rose by an estimated 57% from 1980 to 1983, and
would have recovered even more without the coffee quota con-
straint. This export growth, together with improved aid utiliza-
tion during 1983, has helped to finance a much-needed expansion
of import volumes since 1981.
(c)  Government revenue has increased more than fourteenfold over the
past two years, from 1.1% to 6.1% of GDP. Expenditure growth on
the other hand has been less rapid, because the Government has
restricted cash release to ministries in order to remain within
the IMF ceilings. Consequently, the budget deficit was held to
less than 2% of GDP during 1982/83.
(d) The resultant restraint on bank borrowing by the Government has
reduced the rate of monetary expansion. This, together with
falling import prices, has helped to control general inflation,
which is down from an estimated 100% per annum in 1980-81 to 45%
in 1982 and about 30% in 1983.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially be'.ow the peak levels achieved in the early 1970s. As a
result, per capita GNP is still only two thirds of the 1970 level. The
burden of this income loss falls most heavily on wage and salary earners,
especially in the civil service, who often have to resort to secondary
employment or improper activities in order to survive.
The Government 's Policies and Programs
7.        The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this,
however, is the goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first
step towards rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program
for 1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs during 1982/83 and
1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by arrangements
with the IMF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from the First and
Second IDA Reconstruction Credits (providing US$145 million after June
1981) and assistance from other donors. Major actions taken by the
Government are summarized below.
(a) The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh 8 to USh
78 per US dollar in June 1981, and has subsequently been steadily
depreciated further to USh 150 per US dollar on July 1, 1983.



-4-
Since August 1982, the Government has also opened a second window
where foreign exchange is more freely traded in an auction
system. The rate established at the second window has fluctuated
between USh 240 and USh 300 per US dollar over the past year, and
was at USh 280 per US dollar on July 1, 1983. These exchange
rate adjustments have led to a substantial reduction in the
premium and importance of the unofficial market for foreign
exchange.
(b)  The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were for
producer prices of traditional export crops, retail prices of
petroleum products and utility tariffs. For these controlled
items, significant price increases have been introduced over the
past year. Petroleum prices have been increased by more than
twentyfold since December 1980 to reflect fully the impact of
window-one exchange rate changes. Producer price adjustments
have been more moderate, with increases of about tenfold for most
major export crops. However, these increases are still substan-
tially higher than general inflation and net returns from the
production of all major export crops are now positive. The most
serious lags in price adjustments have been for utility tariffs.
Although most major tariffs have been increased by at least 1002
since 1980, these adjustments are inadequate to reflect present
costs of supply, to provide resources for future development and
to encourage efficient utilization of services.
(c)  Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary and
fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money and
allocate credit, most interest rates have been nearly doubled
over the past two years (although they still remain negative in
real terms). As part of its obligations under the IMF stand-by
arrangements, the Government has agreed to and met ceilings on
the growth of net domestic credit and net credit to the Govern-
ment.  On the fiscal side, a number of measures were taken in mid
1981 to streamline and improve the elasticity of the taxation
structure. Strict control has also been maintained over cash
releases to ministries, although this has sometimes been at the
cost of underfunding critical functions and the accumulation of
domestic arrears.
8.        The Government's Recovery Program, released in April 1982, was
intended to provide a broader framework for the development of the economy
during 1982/83 and 1983/84. It includes proposals for further policy and
institutional reforms, as well as a project-specific investment plan. The
total cost of the investment plan is US$737 million (including a "tail" of
expenditures in 1984/85), of which about 80% is in foreign exchange. This
cost is barely one third of the original project submissions and could have
hardly been cut further without jeopardising the Recovery Program's modest
goals. The basic strategy of the Recovery Program is also well suited to
present conditions in Uganda, focusing on the short-term revival of the
economy's productive sectors. While the Recovery Program recognizes the
importance of the social sectors, on both humanitarian and developmental
grounds, actual allocations to these sectors have been sharply curtailed,



- 5 -
pending progress on rebuilding the productive base of the economy.  In all
sectors, priority is given to rehabilitation and improved utilization of
existing capacity, with expansion limited to certain well-defined areas,
such as production of agricultural implements and balancing investments.
There are, in fact, very few new projects included in the investment plan.
Consistent with this strategy, appropriate criteria have been used to help
screen and select projects. For the productive sectors, primary emphasis
has been given to projects which promise rapid foreign exchange benefits
through either improved export performance or judicious import substitu-
tion.
9.        Participants at the last Consultative Group meeting for Uganda,
held in May 1982, endorsed the Recovery Program both as a framework for
government action and as a vehicle for mobilizing and allocating external
assistance. At that time, the World Bank had estimated that new commit-
ments of loans and grants would have to reach US$400 million in 1982 and
US$450 million in 1983 for the Recovery Program to be implemented on sched-
ule. Actual commitments averaged about US$360 million per annum over these
two years, an encouraging response but still short of requirements. Aid
utilization also has been slower than expected. As a result, net disburse-
ments of loans and grants during 1982 and 1983 will be only about 70% of
the levels projected at the Consultative Group meeting. It therefore is
not surprising that the overall pace of implementation has fallen short of
the Recovery Program's targets, and many projects included in the invest-
ment plan are still to be started. The Government, for its part, has
recognized that economic recovery will not be fully completed by June
1984. It has therefore decided to revise and extend the Recovery Program,
as a two-year "rolling plan", for the 1983-85 period.  The revised Recovery
Program will comprise a mixture of rehabilitation projects carried over
from the existing investment plan and a limited set of new projects select-
ed with the sole objective of consolidating the recovery process. The
Recovery Program has been adopted by the Government to be distributed to
the next Consultative Group meeting, scheduled for late January 1984.
10.       A decisive start to the process of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengthen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forwara and making them more effective. In some cases, strengthening
means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in others, it
means developing new institutions and policies relevant to today's real-
ities. The administrative weaknesses faced by Uganda (and many other
Sub-Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and
progress will be slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not
be allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms.
The Government has already initiated action in this area: the Report of
the Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besides
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is presently under review by
the Government; the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act in
February 1983 to provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and
is about to start a series of financial and accounting studies on major
parastatal organizations; various measures have been introduced over the
past two years to improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing



- 6 -
procedures; and, the Agricultural Policy Committee was established in
August 1982 to advise the Government on prices, marketing and resource
allocations for the agricultural sector. Not surprisingly, given the
severe erosion of the country's productive base and infrastructure during
the 1970s, much remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be con-
sidered complete. But, the Government's Recovery Program and evolving
policies are headed in the right direction, and merit support from the
international community.
Sectoral Priorities
11.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communica-
tions infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, build-
ing materials and agricultural inputs by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilita-
tion. But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be
limited to the extent of their potential contribution to the recovery
process. Improvements in medical services, the repair of damaged class-
rooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for example,
may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable, incentive to
producers.
12.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic food short-
ages as a result of low rainfall and insecurity. The rehabilitation of
agriculture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA quota constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs and fertilizers)
to neighboring countries. The revival of cotton and other agricultural
production would also supply some domestic industrial needs. During the
rehabilitation phase, the Government has decided to give top priority to
improving incentives, including changes in producer prices and the market-
ing system. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, implements,
spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the
production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
13.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production did begin to



recover during 1982, performance of the sector remains very uneven, with
many enterprises still closed down and average capacity utilization of only
about 30%. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange. However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which are re-
emerging as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (res'lting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline and, more recently, the Impact of devaluation on costs), and over-
expansion and political interference in the management of the parastatal
sector.  The Government has now declared its intention to follow a "mixed
econDmy" strategy, with only essential public services reserved exclusively
for the public sector. In other areas, domestic and foreign private enter-
prise is to be encouraged, either wholly owned or in joint ventures with
the Government. The Government expects to close down or sell off a number
of the existing industrial enterprises, while the financial viability of
the remaining parastatals is to be restored through increased tariffs,
asset revaluation and injections of new capital. Actions initiated by the
Government in this area, including the Expropriated Properties Act and a
program of financial and accounting studies, were noted in paragraph 10.
However, the modalities for restructuring the parastatal sector are still
to be worked out fully.
14.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the sane general reasons outlined ear-
lier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes. As a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania.  This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost. Transport was moreover the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which followed.  The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the transprort system and
sector institutions, thus becomes a key requirement for eccnomic recovery.
15.       The World Bank recently completed an assessment of Uganda's
energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on electricity, petroleum and
woodfuels. At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity is
underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more
expensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. As a result, the Government has
initiated two studies on the power subsector, one on the rehabilitation of
the Owen Falls Station and the other to help prepare a least-cost power
development program. As regards petroleum, the Government has succeeded in
reducing the cost of imports over the past two years, through the impact of
higher retail prices on domestic consumption and smuggling as well as
improvements in supply arrangements. Preliminary work to ascertain the
extent and economic viability of petroleum resources in the Lake Albert
area has also been started, although local oil production remains very much
a longer-term and uncertain prospect. Woodfuels are estimated to account



for 95Z of total energy and 71% of commerclal energy consumption in
Uganda. There is therefore mounting concern that uncontrolled cutting will
eventually deplete the most accessible forest resources and lead to further
soil erosion problems.
Aid and Debt
16.       Under the base-case scenario presented in the recent Country
Economic Memorandum, Uganda's GDP is projected to grow by 4.7% per annum
through 1985 and 3.6% per annum over the subsequent five years. Thes.
projections assume a steady improvement In the internal security situation
and continued progress on economic reforms. However, 2he viability of this
scenario is also critically dependent on the availability of foreign ex-
change to finance recurrent imports and priority rehahilitacion projects.
Although the recent recovery in export performance is expected to contlnue,
the current account deficit stays around Its present level in real terms
for the remainder of this decade. This has major implications for external
financing requirements.
(a)  Commitment levels are required to increase by about one quarter
during 1984 to US$430 million and then to continue rising with
international inflation (i.e., constant in real terms) through
1990. As debt relief and private loans are expected to fall,
other forms of external assistance will have to increase by as
much as two thirds during 1984.
(b)  The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves. Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next two
to three years. However, project aid will become Increasingly
important during the second half of the decade and even has a
role to play in the short term, provided it is consistent with
the rehabilitation priorities in the Recovery Program. Technical
assistance, while not as large in dollar terms, is important for
improving public administration and making other forms of aid
effective.
(c)  The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon be
eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms. This does
not preclude the possibility of utilizing some  -mercial bank
loans or suppliers' credits for projects which generate substan-
tial net foreign exchange earnings to cover debt obligations.
However, arrangements which involve prior claims on foreign ex-
change, such as coffee barter deals, should generally be avoided.
On the Ugandan side, efforts are underway to strengthen aid coordination
and administration. In particular, the Government has allocated
responsibility for coordinating aid mobilization, signing aid agreements
and authorizing disbursements, and monitoring aid utilization and project
implementation. Appropriate staff, facilities and technical assistance
might need to be provided to the responsible units, so that they can
operate effectively.
17.       Uganda's external debt outstanding and disbursed had reached an
estimated US$620 million by the end of 1982. Of this amount, 4.0% was due
to IBRD (for Uganda's notional share of EAC loans) and 15.5% to IDA.



- 9 -
Fortunately for Uganda, the terms of new aid commitments since 1979 have
been highly concessional, with about half being grants and the balance of
loans having a grant element of 60%. However, other debt obligations, such
as war-related assistance and IMF purchases, have helped to raise the
overall debt service ratio to around 50% during 1981-83. Under the
base-case scenario in the Country Economic Memorandum, the debt service
ratio is projected to fall back to 40% in 1984 and 32% by 1990. This,
however, is still cause for concern. Further, the down-side risks are very
real: Uganda's export structure is still heavily dependent on coffee,
earnings from which could be constrained by further quota restrictions and
unfavorable price movements; the Government may find it difficult to reduce
the import requirements of security-related activities; and adequate
amounts of assistance, on concessional terms, may not be forthcoming to
support the recovery effort. This outlook reinforces the importance of
external debt management. Progress has been made over the past year in
improving debt recording and an External Debt Management Office has been
established. The real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing
program for Uganda and ensure that it is adhered to by centralizing the
authority to contract debts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which
were extended for the development of the common services and the East
African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
through their association in the former East African Community (EAC).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations. IFC's
first investment in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the
Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national
parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC approved new
investments in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company and in the Lugazi Sugar
Factory in FY83.
19.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program Credit of US$72.5 million
(including a participation of US$17.5 million by the Netherlands) and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Nos.
983/983-1-UG and 54-UG). The Association also acted as Administrator of a
Can$3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0 million
program loan from the OPEC Fund. The Reconstruction Credit originally
experienced delays and disbursements were slow; it is now fully disbursed.
About 26% of the Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0 million equivalent
(No. 1252-UG), approved in May 1982 has been committed. In addition, the
Association has provided US$178.0 million through the First Technical
Assistance Credit (No. 1077-UG), a Water Supply Engineering Credit (No.
1110-UG), a Phosphate Engineering Credit (No. 1228-UG), an Industrial
Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1248-UG), an Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit
(No. 1328-UG), a Third Education Credit (No. 1329-UG) and a Posts and



- 10 -
Telecommunications Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1367-UG). Progress in
the implementation of the First Technical Assistance Project is discussed
in detail below (see paragraphs 32-36).
20.       A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that the disbursement rate in Uganda has been higher than in the
Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments from 43% in FY80
to 30% in FY83 (compared with 19% and 262 in the same years for the Region
as a whole). Disbursements under the Water Supply Engineering Credit are
continuing and have started satisfactorily under the Phosphate Engineering
Credit. There are no disbursements yet from the Industrial Rehabilitation
Credit due to the time needed to appraise sub-projects in detail. Progress
under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is good and disbursements are
satisfactory. The two credits for the Third Education, and the Posts and
Telecommunications Projects have been declared effective recently;
disbursements have not yet commenced under these credits.
21.       The Bank Group also administers an Agricultural Reconstruction
Program (INo. 80-UG) of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development and a UNDP financed Planning
Assistance Project (UGA/79/011) (see paragraphs 30-31).  In the immediate
future, Bank Group operations will remain focussed on rehabilitation pro-
jects. Besides a Third Reconstruction Credit, rehabilitation projects are
under preparation for roads, power and water supply. The emphasis will
shift gradually into traditional projects in the agriculture, industry,
transport and energy sectors.
22.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM8O-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank - one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the Mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting In Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. Negotiations
which started in December 1981 and continued through 1982 and 1983
focussed on details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it
was generally accepted that both location of assets and the principle of
equal rights of all former BAC partners should be taken into account, the
weight to be attributed to these principles was a major issue. On November
15 and 16, 1983 the negotiations culminated in a meeting of the three Heads
of State in Arusha in which full agreement was reached on all outstanding
issues, including the prominent weighting question. The agreement follows
the recommendations of the Mediator and provides equity shares of 42% for
Kenya, 32 X for Tanzania, and 261 for Uganda. As a result of this formula,
Kenya and Tanzania have excess assets over their equity shares, while
Uganda has a shortfall. The Presidents agreed therefore that Kenya and
Tanzania will pay compensation to Uganda. The method of payment of this
compensation is to be worked out at the ministerial level by March 31,
1984.



- 11 -
PART III. THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
23.       The Government has made considerable efforts over the past three
years to improve its economic performance. However, given the severe
erosion of the country's productive base and infrastructure during the
1970s, much remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be considered
complete. As indicated earlier, the principal elements for recovery are
the policy reforms started in mid-1981, and the rebuilding and strength-
ening of the institutional structure of the Government. The need for tech-
nical assistance arises out of the loss of much of Uganda's skilled and
trained manpower during the 1970s and the shortage of specific skills in
the areas critical to recovery.
24.       The Government in its efforts to achieve recovery has to work
with an administrative machinery that has been seriously affected by abuse
and neglect for close to ten years.   The civil service's internal
situation is characterized by: manpower constraints in the higher levels
and an expansion in the lower levels; financial constraints; low pay and
low staff morale; weak management and organizational problems; poor records
and data systems; inadequate training and broken down equipment. The
Government appointed a Public Service Salary Commission which reviewed
these issues. Its report, presented to the Government in November 1982, is
still under review within the Government. In the interim, the Government
increased average wages for civil servants by 20% in April 1983 and by
another 50% in July, and imposed a partial freeze on declared vacancies.
Some improvement in the statistical services is evident and a start is
being made- on job evaluation in the public service. However, the major
issues indicated above have not yet been comprehensively tackled.
Technical assistance will help define the approach to be taken, in
conjunction with the recommendations of the Bank Group Public
Administration mission and various sector missions which studied the
agriculture, transport, education and energy sectors, urban development and
the health and nutrition situation. The respective memoranda are in
various stages of preparation and will be discussed with the Government in
the next few months. All reports deplore the effects of the above outlined
situation in their respective sectors and reiterate the critical shortage
of trained personnel. A common theme is the recommendation to alleviate
the difficulties which face Uganda's economy by providing technical
assistance and training.
25.       The status of planning illustrates the situation.   Overall
planning responsibility rests with the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development (MPED).   However, NPED's ability to carry out its functions is
limited. The few skilled staff in the Ministry are fully occupied with a
multitude of ad hoc tasks with the result that neither macroeconomic
planning nor project appraisal and monitoring are carried out effectively.
At the same time, most sector ministries have no or only a few skilled
planners and therefore cannot prepare sector policies and investment
projects.   Combined with MPED's lack of planning capability, the result is
a general absence of sector policy development and planning, and project
preparation.



- 12 -
26.       Similarly, there are no, or only a few, accountants in the
ministries. The Government accounts are therefore in a poor state and have
not been audited since 1973/74. As a result expenditure control is
extremely difficult; accountability for the use of public funds cannot be
ensured and essential information on the use of fuads is lacking.
Accounting in the parastatal sector, which is of major importance to the
economy, has broken down too; many public enterprises have not produced
accounts for many years. Reliable statistics are also lacking. While some
ministries and agencies prepare some statistical information, the
Statistics Department in MPED has not been able to produce the statistical
data required for monitoring economic developments.
27.       The Government's activities have been uncoordinated vis-a-vis aid
donors. Three ministries, (Finance, MPED, and Foreign Affairs), and the
Bank of Uganda have offices concerned with aid coordination. There is an
overlap of functions and a diffusion of responsibilities. There is no
effective system to collect data about donor aid programs and procedures.
To remedy this situation the Government has now decided to give overall
responsibility for aid coordination to the Ninistry of Finance and has
appointed a Permanent Secretary for Aid Coordination who will be supported
by about six staff members.
28.       The Recovery Program places heavy emphasis on strengthening the
central 'control' ministries (Finance, MPED, Public Service and Cabinet
Affairs, Local Government, and the Office of the President). This effort
is central to the Government's strategy for improving its ability to manage
the economy. A start already has been made with the UNDP - Planning
Assistance Project (see paragraph 30) which is intended to help to
strengthen NPED, and in the Second Reconstruction Program (Cr. No. 1252-UG)
which initiates measures to strengthen the Government'6 capacity to
formulate and implement policies and programs in those areas which are
critical for the country's economic recovery. As part of this effort, the
Government, with the help of IMF advisers and Bank staff, has prepared a
program to strengthen the Ministry of Finance, and a major study of the
accounting situation of key parastatals (see paragraphs 41 and 42). The
project would assist in these areas.
29.       The project would thus continue the support provided by the Bank
Group and other donors to address critical manpower constraints through
technical assistance. Bilateral donors have been a source of technical
assistance to Uganda, mostly in the years immediately after the war in
connection with food aid or disaster relief. In subsequent years, funds
have been provided, but mainly for project preparation and only in small
amounts. Other sources of technical assistance have been the EEC, UNICEF,
and UNDP, the former two with respect to specific project activities, the
latter also providing general technical assistance through one of their
projects, the UNDP-financed Planning Assistance Project (UGAl79/011) which
is being executed by the Bank (see paragraph 30 below). UNDP has provided
a total of about US$36.6 million for technical assistance over the past
five years. This is about 2Z of total aid commitments to Uganda.
However, UNDP funds are now becoming more scarce. The Government
therefore, requested the Association to finance high priority requirements
for technical assistance in the area of economic management.



- 13 -
The UNDP Planning Assistance Project
30.       To address one area of weak ecoaomic management, UNDP agreed to
provide US$2.5 million for a Planning Assistance Project to help strengthen
MPED. The UNDP Project signed in January 1982, after a one year
preparatory period, finances seven experts (two macroeconomists, three
sector economists and two statisticians) and short-term consultants,
together with training and equipment to support MPED. The Project's
objectives are to strengthen MPED's capacity to monitor the implementation
of the Government's Recovery Program and to develop a medium-term
development program consistent with available resources. However,
implementation of the Project has been slow. In addition to the security
and housing situations, which make life and work in Uganda difficult and
frustrating, recruitment has been hampered by slow decision-making in
Kampala. The difficulties facing this Project were discussed at a
tripartite review between the Government, UNDP and the Bank in early
November 1983 at which it was agreed that the objectives of the Project are
still valid, if not more so in view of MPED's continuing weakness.
31.       During the review, the terms of reference for some of the expert
positions included in the UNDP Project were redefined, which, together with
the gradual improvement in living conditions in Uganda, should alleviate
recruitment difficulties. Moreover, agreement was reached to place greater
emphasis on short-term experts who by and large have proven easier to
recruit. Should renewed efforts by the Bank to recruit the necessary team
prove fruitless, other means of recruitment including the use of a
consulting firm or an international organization such as the Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) would be considered. The Government
has also agreed to act more expeditiously on appointment proposals. It has
further been agreed that MPED needed to take urgently steps to strengthen
its own capabilities including implementation of long delayed recruitment
and promotion plans. Moreover, agreement has been reached on a training
program for staff of MPED and the planning units of sectoral ministries.
Once these changes have been implemented, MPED would be in a better
position to fulfill its statutory responsibilities.
The First Technical Assistance Project
32.       As an early part of its efforts to assist the Government to
strengthen the planning capacity of ministries and other agencies and to
help prepare and implement projects, the Association made available a
credit of SDR 6.4 (US$8.0) million equivalent in December 1980
(Cr. 1077-UG). The credit was to be allocated in agreement between the
Government and the Association for specific sub-projects. These were to be
prepared by Government ministries, parastatal enterprises or other public
and private entities, then reviewed and evaluated by MPED before being
presented to a Review Committee. All sub-projects costing US$10,000 or
more required prior approval of the Association. Implementation of
sub-projects is the responsibility of the respective ministries and
agencies while NPED is required to report on progress to the Association.
33.       After a slow start, the first major sub-project was approved in
February 1982. As the procedures were established, the pace of approvals
increased and the credit is now fully committed as follows:



- 14 -
(a) about 30Z for project preparation, mainly for the Third
Education Project and the proposed Third Highway Project;
(b) about 68% to support institutions involved in key areas of
economic development through:
(i) long-term experts supplementing existing manpower as
in the Agriculture Secretariat (which is responsible
for providing the economic and analytical basis for
policy-making in the agricultural sector, including
pricing, marketing and resource allocation), or in
the Central Tender Board (to help improve procure-
ment practices and procedures which have been
identified as deficient under the Second
Reconstruction Program); and
(ii) short-term assignment of experts to fulfill specific
tasks such as helping MPED to up-date the Recovery
Program, the 1Ministry of Finance to improve and
centralize the Government's accounts; and
(c) about 22 for training, mainly for individual fellowships at
various training institutions abroad.
A complete list of sub-projects financed under the Credit is given in
Annex IV. All sub-projects are either completed or well underway.
Implementation through vasrious experts and consulting firms has been
satisfactory.
34.       Disbursements follow the course of the sub-projects some of which
require two years or more to implement. The credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by the original closing date of December 31, 1985.
35.       Experience with sub-project preparation and review has been
mixed. All sub-projects which were finally approved by the Association
were prepared by Bank staff in the course of sector work or project
preparation. Sub-projects which were prepared without involvement of Bank
staff show that the capacity of the proposing agencies to prepare, and of
MPED and the Review Committee to subsequently review and analyze them,
needs to be improved. It is expected that the revised UNDP-financed
Planning Assistance Project will strengthen MPED to help it to fulfill its
tasks under the project. In addition, the proposed project addresses this
problem through phasing arrangements under which short-term experts would
be hired to prepare sub-projects in appropriate cases (see paragraph 52).
Nevertheless, the Association would have to continue to devote considerable
efforts to the review of sub-project proposals.
36.       The training component of the First Technical Assistance Project
has met with limited success. Only about one eighth of the funds originally
allocated for training have been finally committed for training purposes,
mainly for individual fellowships at various training institutions abroad.
While the courses taken have undoubtedly been relevant to the work
performed by the individuals, the effectiveness of this kind of training
remains doubtful in the Ugandan context and is in any



- 15 -
case difficult to measure. The design of the project takes this experience
into account (see paragraph 48).
37.       Despite these weaknesses, the First Technical Assistance Project
proved to be a flexible and effective instrument to help meet a broad range
of urgent technical assistance requirements, most of which were not
foreseen at the time of appraisal. However, while obvious needs are being
met, many remain to be addressed and new requirements are continually being
identified by the Government in the course of the Recovery Program's
implementation, Bank economic, sector and project work, and the work of
other agencies. Although there are other sources of technical assistance,
including UNDP, the Bank Group is particularly well placed to provide this
kind of broad and flexible assistance because of the range of its
experience which is made available to Uganda in the course of sub-project
preparation and approval. As a multilateral institution it is also better
suited to provide technical assistance in sensitive areas such as economic
management and public administration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was appraised in April 1983 and negotiations were
held in November 1983 in Washington; the Ugandan Delegation was headed by
Mr. J.W. Okune, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development and included representatives of the Ministries of
Finance and Justice. A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this
report and Annex III contains supplemental project data.
Objectives and Description
39.       The objectives of the project are to:
(a) strengthen the Government's economic decision making,
planning, project preparation and implementation
capabilities through external assistance; and
(b) transfer skills to Ugandans through training.
40.       To achieve these objectives the credit would finance high prior-
ity sub-projects selected in agreement between the Government and the
Association. They would address the most important areas of the Govern-
ment's economic management. Sub-projects would have to be consistent with
the Government's Revised Recovery Program for 1983-85. As a matter of
priority, they would concentrate on:
(i) the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Economic Develop-
ment, and Public Service and Cabinet Affairs to improve
their capacity to manage the Ugandan economy;
(ii) sector ministries to strengthen their planning and project
preparation capacities; and
(iii)  the Institute of Public Administration to enhance its
ability to provide training in Uganda.



- 16 -
Assistance to Central Ministries
41.       The Ministry of Finance already receives technical assistance
from the IMF through an expatriate expert who is acting am Deputy
Commissioner of the Budget Department. CFTC assists the Income Tax and
Customs Departments and Uganda Computer Service (which Is part of the
Ministry). However, the Ministry needs further assistance and has thus
requested help to strengthen the Government's accounting system and
procedures, the first phase of which has been approved under the First
Technical Assistance Project (see Annex IV). Recruitment efforts are
underway for two accountants, one to act as Deputy Commissioner, Treasury
Officer of Accounts and the other to head the Inspectorate Section of the
Treasury Department. Their terms of reference (see Annex VII) include
preparation of a comprehensive program for improving the management and
organization of the Accounting Department which would be financed as a
second phase from the credit.
42.       According to the program as agreed under the Second
Reconstruction Program, the Ministry of Finance has requested assistance by
consultants to reconstruct the accounts (or where appropriate prepare
statements of affairs) of a number of important parastatal organizations
including the agricultural marketing boards, the public service
corporations, financial companies and major production companies. Terms of
reference for this work (Annex VI) have been agreed and negotiations are
underway with the selected consulting firm. The study would be undertaken
in two phases: during the first (diagnostic) phase, the work to be done
under the second (substantive) phase would be more clearly defined and a
detailed work program prepared. The first phase would be financed under
the First Technical Assistance Project (see Annex IV), while financing of
the second phase would come from this project.
43.       The rehabilitation of the Statistics Department in MPED has high
priority. The first task of the statistical adviser, financed under the
UNDP Planning Assistance Project (see paragraph 30), will be to help
prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation program suitable for financing under
the project.
44.       The Bank's Public Administration mission (see paragraph 24) has
prepared recommendations designed to strengthen the Ministry of Public
Service and Cabinet Affairs and the Office of the President. Technical
assistance would support the mission's recommendations, including a review
of ministerial functions, efficiency audits, improved personnel management
and salaries. The mission's report and recommendations will be discussed
with the Government and details of a sub-project would then be agreed.
Assistance to Sector Ministries and other Technical Assistance Needs
45.       The Government has decided to establish new planning units or
strengthen existing planning units in all sector ministries and several
ministries have prepared sub-project proposals for technical assistance to
help their efforts. Terms of reference for one of these advisers to the
Ministry of Animal Industries and Fisheries are in Annex VIII. Similarly,
the Bank's Energy Assessment mission (see Energy Sector Report, No.
4453-UG, of July 1983) discussed with the Government the recruitment of an



- 17 -
energy planner who would review proposals for an energy department in the
Ninistry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications (MPPT), prepare a program
for implementing institutional reforms and develop job descriptions for
manpower requirements. His terms of reference are currently under
preparation and would include, in turn, preparation of a proposal for a
follow-up assignment as well as terms of reference for an energy adviser
who would provide technical support in moaitoring energy trends and
developments, and advise on policies and programs for the energy sector
(power, petroleum and wood resource management).
46.       While efforts are made to strengthen the central ministries and
the planning units of the sector ministries there are many tasks that need
to be carried out urgently and for which technical assistance is required.
These include preparation of projects included in the Recovery Program and
implementation of ongoing projects. A number of proposals for feasibility,
rehabilitation and capacity utilization studies in industry, mining,
agriculture and transport have already been presented to MPED and are being
reviewed; several proposals for assistance in project implementation have
also been prepared. Other technical assistance needs arise out of the
Energy Sector Report (No. 4453-UG of July 1983), other sector reports and
ongoing Bank Group financed projects. The credit would be available to
finance high priority studies and technical assistance needs of this kind.
Assistance to the Institute of Public Administration (IPA)
47.       The Institute of Public Administration (IPA) would be
rehabilitated. The Institute, founded in 1968, is intended to be the
Goverinment's high level training institution for the public service. After
several successful years, the quality of its instruction has suffered
because of budgetary constraints and low morale both among its staff and
trainees. Although the Institute appears to have escaped large-scale
looting during and after the war, it suffers from a small and shrinking
cadre of experienced trainers, lack of books and teaching materials and
deteriorating physical facilities. The first phase of assistance designed
to make IPA an effective teaching institution would follow the proposals
prepared by the Bank's Public Administration mission.   Subsequently, a
comprehensive rehabilitation program would need to be prepared and could be
presented to external donors for financing.
Assistance in Training
48. Training under the project would take three forms:
(a) Sub-projects designed to strengthen ministries or other
organizations would include, as appropriate, provision for
training, mainly in Uganda, specifically geared to the
objectives of the sub-project.
(b) Freestanding training sub-projects could be designed to
upgrade the skills of an individual or a group of individuals
either from one organisation or representing one professionel
category. Such training proposals would form part of
comprehensive training programs for the organization or
organizations involved on the basis of which the Association
would give its approval (see Annex V/Part B (c)).



- 18 -
(c) Training courses in various aspects of the project cycle to
be held in Uganda would be arranged; EDI and/or ESAMI could
help organize and run such courses.
In view of the experience under the First Technical Assistance Project
preparation of training proposals could be phased, if necessary, like other
sub-projects. Implementation of training proposals could be sub-contracted
or "twinning" arrangements made, i.e. an expatriate partner organization
found which would advise on and subsequently implement a single training
proposal or entire training programs. Such "twins" could be universities,
other institutions with training capabilities acceptable to the Association
or similar operating entities such as Electricity Boards or even
ministries. Training could be in the form of fellowships, special courses
and - most important - on the job in Uganda or at a "twin's" headquarter.
Organization and Implementation
49.       MPED is responsible for coordinating the selection of projects
for inclusion in the Recovery Program and the development budget, and for
coordinating externally provided technical assistance. It was chosen to
administer the first Technical Assistance Project because of its
responsibilities and should continue with the administration of the second
project. Its weaknesses have been addressed under the Second Reconstruc-
tion Program and with renewed efforts to implement the UNDP-financed
Planning Assistance Project its capacity to administer the second project
should be greatly enhanced.
50.       Under the first project, a senior economist in MPED was appointed
project coordinator. This position, with the same terms of reference
(Annex V/Part A), would continue to be filled under the project by a
suitably qualified senior official (Section 3.04(b)(i) of the Development
Credit Agreement). However, since this has not proved sufficient under the
first project, it has been agreed with the Government that an expatriate
adviser would be employed by June 30, 1984 to assist MPED in carrying out
its technical assistance coordination functions, including the overall
implementation of the project (Section 3.03(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). One of his tasks would be to closely liaise with the Project
Coordinator.
51.       Sub-project proposals would be prepared by Government ministries,
parastatals or other Government agencies or the private sector following
the same procedures as under the First Technical Assistance Project (see
Annex V/Part C). Due to the weakness of preparation work, as shown under
the first project, sub-projects would be phased in appropriate cases and
assistance provided through consulting firms or short-term experts to help
with sub-project preparation. The Project Coordinator would review the
proposals, together with appropriate staff of MPED's sectoral planning
department, and summarize the conclusions of the review in a report to be
submitted to the Review Committee for final approval. The Review
Committee, made up of the Permanent Secretary of MPED, the Secretary of the
Treasury and officials from MPED and other Ministries and agencies, would
continue within MPED (Section 3.02(c)(i) of the Development Credit
Agreement).   Its terms of reference are in Annex V/Part B.  All
sub-project proposals would be submitted to the Association for prior



- 19 -
approval and allocation of funds under the credit (Section 3.02(d) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Sub-projects would be implemented by the minLstry, parastatal
organization or enterprise concerned in accordance with the approved pro-
posals. Counterpart staff are expected to be assigned to the various sub-
projects prior to the employment of consultlng firms or experts (Section
3.03(f) of the Development Credit Agreement). Implementation arrangements
for any sub-project could include where appropriate "twinning' with or
sub-contracting to organizations acceptable to the Association to provide
advice, operating assistance and training. Fellowships for study abroad
would be administered with the assistance of the Office of Project
Execution of UNDP or a similar organization under a contract acceptable to
the Association. Sub-project accounts, which would be audited, would be
maintained by the Implementing agencies (Section 4.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement). MPED would monitor project implementation, including
disbursements, and report to the Association regularly.
Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost would be about US$17.1 million.  The
credit would finance all foreign exchange cost or 88X of total cost. The
Government would contribute the remaining US$2.1 million. Internationally
recruited consulting firms and experts would be exempted from identifiable
taxes and duties.   Costs of locally hired consulting firms and experts, of
equipment and vehicles have been estimated taking account of local taxes;
disbursements have been calculated accordingly (see paragraph 55). The
approximate project budget is provided in the Project and Credit Summary at
the front of this report.
54.       Sub-projects would be undertaken by long- or short-term
expatriate advisers or consulting firms, and include equipment and
training. The estimated average cost per man-month including allowances,
international travel and subsistence is about US$10,000 for individually
hired experts and US$15,000 for foreign consulting firms. The terms and
conditions for study abroad, if any, would be those of fellowships financed
by UNDP. Local costs would consist of counterpart staff salaries, office
space and support. These costs would be borne by the Government and the
implementing agencies. The credit is expected to be fully committed by
December 31, 1985, and the project completed by December 31, 1987. The
closing date would be June 30. 1988.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Consultants and experts to be financed under the project would be
selected and hired in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the
Employment and Use of Consultants (Section 3.03(c) of the Development
Credit Agreement). Procurement of equipment and supplies would be in
accordance with the Bank Group's Procurement Guidelines and would be
awarded on the basis of Limited International Tendering procedures.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$15,000 would not attract
international interest and would be awarded on the basis of the Central



- 20 -
Tender Board procedures (Schedule 3, Part B of the Development Credit
Agreement) which require that all purchases exceeding USh 200,000
(equivalent to about US$700) for any single ministry In any fluancial year
be made on the basis of either competltive biddlng or at least three
quotations from different suppliers and be approved by the Central Tender
Board. The credit would be disbursed against 1OOZ of foreign expenditures
for internationally recruited, and 70X of locally recruited consultLng
firms and experts; 1002 of foreign expenditures and 90X of local
expenditures of equipment and vehicles; and lOOZ of the cost of trainlng.
All expenditures would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The project would assist the Government to address some of the
major weaknesses in its capacity to manage and rehabilitate the economy.
If the project helps to reconstruct the accounts of major parastatal
organizations and recommends ways to improve their financial management,
the Government's control and supervision over their activities would be
improved. Accurate Government accounts in the Ministry of Flnance and
vital statistical information in MPED would be important prerequisites of
sound Government economic management. Policy formulation and project
preparation would be isproved through various forms of assistance expected
to be provided under the project. Publlc administration would also be
Improved through the assistance to the Ministry of Public Service and
Cabinet Affairs, and especially through the improvement of IPA. Finally,
the pipeline of development projects suitable for external financing would
be Improved through the carrying out of feasibility and other studies.
57.       The main risk facing the project is possible delays resulting
from the Government's weak administrative apparatus which hampers decision
making. However, the project's objectives are directly geared to this
risk. The experts to be hired would help to lay a basis through Improved
management, data collection and feasbillty studies for the Goveroment's
decisions. A second risk is the difficulties specifically encountered In
recruitment of long-term experts, due to the difficult living conditions
and security problems in the country. The project Is therefore designed to
break subprojects, where appropriate, into phases utilizing sore short-term
experts which are easier to hire. In addition, sub-project implementation
would be sub-contracted to consulting firms or other appropriate
organizations which are in a better posltion to recruit and hire
expatriates than the Government. The risks are thus satisfactorily
addressed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executlve Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                                 By Ernest Stern
December 5, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-22-                                                   Page lo  5
mu   (IMOUBMw. att )U6    1:1k 
IIU$RT        tUN  t$JW                 MIIILeIMUH
Iiaeoeat     Iu07ied   RHINTIJT        AIINCA  B. OF StAHARA     AFItA  N. UPSAA
TUTAL                                                            11,
RJIICULfURAL                            63.3         68.6        104.0
IP NUo CITA (ONO                             .,           ..        lII.,a              1b4.                        lAi,
61135  WIUIMPYOU N   CAPITA
(XU RAN r OF COAL IQUIVAI.RT)           39.0         5.1        U4.0                 II'st                      124
OSLAflOtM-  VITA  STATISIU               72 0                     13047.U
PUPe LlATION.Mh1IURA0 (TIIUNIANI)S     21.0       97.          1    .U
113ahm PoPULtION (a of tTom)             $4            UL                             1152,
OUPLATION PROJUKCTIONI I
pOPULAT ITt   IN YKAN 2000 (MILL)
STATIONARY PUPULATION (HILL)                                   Q2.                    .
VlAL BTATIUIAlBY Par. RKACHI                                 214U
PuOULATIUN IIIIUHITY                                                                                              %6 % 4i.i  5b  121.3
PKM Au. lOG.                         W50.5.
VVA EQtl. VA. AURI. LAND              7.1         97.1 t      IIJ.J                 34.1.
rupULATWoN AUg NTSKUCTURK  IL) t                                                      0.                          04
Q-L4 Vis4.3Rd.14.
IS'S4 YUle                           510           3.6         bI"5.
nl AND AOVK                              1    .1    .           31                   2.9
pul'ULATION GROIliWT  RATE (Ct)           ..t                      3                   2.                           .
TOTAL                                   .            .            .
uRBAN                                 7.1                         .'                 oa                          5.
CRUDE BLTHl eATK (rPeK THOLU)          49           4.l          4,.                  47.                         4.70
CRUDE DEATH RATE (Nik rHoUN)           22.o         Is.7         tv.U                 l9.2                        1i.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATI                3;4            3.4          3.4                 3.2                         3.2
VAMIL  P'LANNINGC2
ACCPTUORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..          3.6          10.15.
USERS (3 OPr MAUlD WUOEN)              ..           ..
lOaD AN UITRITSlt
INDEX or FOOD PFiD. PER CAPITA
it949-71-W)                           107.0         99.0         83.0                 67.6                        95.
pEB CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REqUIR     Ts)        9b.0         96.D         61.U                 t.0                         97.1
PuOeTINS (CGRS PER DAY)              51.0         55.U         IO.U                1.4                         50.0
or StilCH AtHAL AND PULSE           21.0         24.0         47.DJ               16.1                        17.2
CHILD CGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             25.5         2Z.3          17.4                25.7                        2i.0
LIFS EXPECT. AT DIRTH (YEAAS)          41.2         4b.3         47.b                 47..                        51.9
INFANT MO.T RATS (PEtR 7110B)         13D.S        113.2 3          .                120.5                       117.0
ACCESS TO SAYZ WATER ('POP)                         ll.              o                                            25.4
TOTAL                                                         Lou2.0  I.Of          24.7                         5.
UKRAH                                  .          8.0         10.                   50.1                        70.5
RURAL                                   ..        17.0          2                   18.3                        12.1
ACCESS To EXCRITA DISPOSAL
(Z O1 POPULATION)                                   76.0                              28.
TOTAL..                                           7.           9.0c21
URBAN                                  ..          4.0          Z.o7                05.7
RURAL                                   ..        70.0         93.0                 21.9..
POPULATION PER PNTSICIAN           1050.0        9100.0/.   20613.014             27420.0                     1216.0
pop. P NUKRSING PLIOW               10030.0       5120.07;   4to.aO.:               3426.2                      2292.0
PoP. PEE IE3SPITAL ECD
TOTAL.                              710.0        640.0        61O.4s.             1163.2                      1075.4
URAN                                 50.0         60.0        1ON0                 360.4                      402.3
RURAL                              1710.0       1820.0       1600.07W             3177.5                      3923.7
AOMISSIONS PrR aOSPITAL  ED               ..       154.1/f
IIBLUU
AVERAGE SlZE or HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..         4..
URSAN
RURAL
AVERIAE NO. or PERESNSIROOH
TWTAL                                   ..          ..
URAN.
RURAL                                   ..
ACCESS To ELECT. (Z OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..
URUN.                                                ..              ..                   ..
RURAL



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-23-                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
UCANDA                 - SoCAL DIDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                              REFERERE GRUPS (SESGETID AVERAGES) 1.
MOST                    (HoST ReCENT ESTINAP) lb
i9~0'   19;011    E b      LOW INCOME            MIDDLE fCitE
196tl!!    1970/   ESTIATE-       AFRICA S. OF SAKARA    AFRICA S. OF SAAA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED NOLLNEST RATIOS
PRLIMAY:  TOTAL                   49.0       39.0        50.0              63.9                      97.2
.1ALE                  65.0       48.0        58.0               73.6                    103.1
kiALE                 32.0       31.0        42.0              51.6                      61.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  3.0         4.0         5.0              12.5                      17.2
.4ALE                   4.0        6.0         7.0               16.7                     23.5
VENALE                  1.0        2.0         3.0               5.1                      14.2
VoCATIOnAL (2 OF SECOmDARY3         11.6        7.4         5.0               7.3                       5.2
PUPIL-TEACNE RA'TIO
PRIMARY                           31.0       34.0        34.0              46.4                     42.9
SECONDARY                         [8.0       20.0        21.0              25.1                     23.7
AWLT LITERACY RATE (:)             25.1/g        -.        52.3              36.5                     37.1
PASSESCER CAaSITOSASD POP           3.5         3.0         2.51h             3.3                     18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND FOP        1'.4       23.6        Zl.6              45.3                     97.8
TV RtECEIVERSITIlUSASD POP          0.1/i       1.4         5.5               2.2                      18.6
NE4sPAE  (DAIL'Y GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THouS=D POPULATIOS             7.3         8.5         1.6               4.7                     18.2
CltENA ASSUAL. ATMANCECAFLT         0.3         ..         0.114             1.0                      0.6
ToTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         3255.0     4157.0      5281.0                .                      3
FEM.ALE (PERCENT)                 35.1       34.6        33.6              34.5                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            d9.0        86.0        83.0              76.9                     56.8
INWSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.0         5.0         6.0               9.8                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             44.7       42.9        40.5              40.9                     37.0
IIALE                             58.b       56.8        54.2              53.0                     47.1
FEUALE                            31.0       29.3       Z2.1               Z8.9                     27.0
ECOMIC DEPESDENCf RATIO             1.0         1.1         L.2               1.2                      1.3
[1M  DLIREBUTIOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ISCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS            -         20.0
H'ICGEST 20 OF WSEHDLDS                      46.6
LO4ES? 2O2 OF HOUSEHOLDS                      6.2
LaMEST 6* OF HOUSEHOLDS                      16.6
ESTIMTED ASOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBIN                                                                     165.9                     534.2
RURAL                                                                      87.4                    255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTy INaE
L,VEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                     100.8                   491.5
RURAL                              ,,                    87,S70/d          64.6                   188.1
ESTIMATED FOP. BELOW ASOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL. Z)
URBAN                                                                      39.5
RURAL                                                                      69.0
NMr AVAILABLE
..xr  Mn^ICAaE
NOT srAPPLICABNE
I O T E S
/s The group averages for each Indlcater are poPulatnnweighted  richmetic means. Coverge of countries aUg the
indicators depends on availabl1ity of data snd St not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, -ats for 1960- refer to an  year between 1959 end 1961; -Dsts for 1970- betwen 1969 mad
1971; and data for -Mot Recent Esticnet between 1979 and 1961
/c  1975; Id 1977; /I Registered, not all practicing in the country; /f Governmet hoepital ettabllslinnts only;
La 1962; /h 1914; /S 1963.
May 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                           ____
- 24 -                                                              Page 3of 5
COMMiITluts Cc oCtALe tOlCATeeS
Siteal   -te0 ted . d.slereCt                                                    ...el Jd    tee~     clricils  -d vlele   it  hsud  t.1   . he  ctd chcter-    e eesetat
re.erhtehaais  a  the tact at  U.taeae-rd 4eltatles  *5  .cepte  -at by dif tes-ti  sentiesI.  te ce1tict i  the dat. 11he detssMe  setbtis    . tea.) a
jesaI'll  aidarat ci ealutmu. blSl-.c  tred. .s.d Cbe-teetcti  canals amjdllra    betse   earl.
lb.he  rlase  as-p. tre (I) the e   ce.tcl jra-g  fi the abect csetrp cd (2)       -    a.e. . " re  tuit e-that kiahar areyse  a-e. the  the fcp ar-" at th
ishiet rente  t(-pt tar 'tab t.--'t Ill Eererar` ea.. us... 9siddciee. -   Itnt UtIca  - aid Iddle  -test  L. Che-- beta.. .1 imtrea           -r st-eu irt
cif'Wttiel.  I. the ref cn  Mew date the enrae  at Fpedtase -ighted aeSthetIc es               I.a far ca    liicte  as ches aiR "I, . .J.rtry ar the M-isuse isa
grew  he. dat  Mtt thtIIdcae,  See  the eeer    .1 -el-tie.               the Ldicce.-  iee.d  -  the aesiabtLlt t  4.1dt  ant, an  -It-t.a  aat.1 a-L he
seeLitd Is-L ceettt  -ese.  .r       t Wadisce  Is easth. the.- -ergaaeIsi  slut I. -mpsie.A h a *l.  at te  estae.    atte I.m   th  e.cp a
Yuii -Nea  etrfta  eatceerite  ld  eea    teecneretis                              jlilrtaiI1.              aetia  ehe ci etaf-ettp late.
tilTs is  hitS da.                                                                    PeLatwla Msr saatev teePre - Papelatler disided by eseher at p       kestra
brt;:Itre                                                                               --elaeShrelaa   rsesdieealpe   eer,eI. an eseal reseat. see. atWLetaC e-.rs.  practical -ras  Mai
fec0 crpe pltow      ittta   cte   at..        i  eis  tis.-ette  aelarc..
erhs, an ruraL) dIte   7 hi  esetw              a   at bieptll hid.
awPSCstflUf GN P pat cpita a  e           u at -rrre  earht Prt.e.                     cetabe. whIle.5 paSsdt ga-ML sad ipirl1aite  heepree  WE
~Stillji~be tesereee sebsi  tarid te       I.St.  1if9-itt beatti;                rebh-it.i- Castr.  tepitle. s.- ae itaie-eect  pi-eiselp etatE
IiO    ie   e   ft  deea b-                                                            a tleas  -. pbert        Pt-AllWaisti preidlee stLeipetip resiald
ata aM es" 1ielude. Bere tapiteal.                   ""ee, iid  health ed
teea Coiiucqts Pos eaprra - Ae_-I  -plsc  eestiea a-ert                                       ite  C-sar  -C per-sa-t ITa cfed bhy a epete(bbyaiIl
.5d asetet-a eletestty  te .tlsee  .1 s-i e.tals   r -cpti-;                               eresit  a tiettad ra-e .1 eadlea  larit tis.  Fee  athsttctlea  warLes
lets. ein. as   MIs.. dt.c.   heeplcela titus  fl prtaipltgee-ers  bupitatee  "a  WaMd
teepteti tis  -e nelteptii  a -0i1ee  an aeteceity CMale.. 
tatec recalttas. kid-ear ctb.-~.) - - ef itr I; 1010 1970. aedlet  edet-ias  -        CMa 1ita  ted - Tha  asterfef ateei Cie te.ddt.gbrte
ace.Ire  Meai i1itlde.byEhelsoeratted.
d   P.retdt"et te. ef. et. -. a .-R ef e -Ilerabiit  ....Jet.                    Insit-
I.-X. .__WL Lit. -p--Y - blnb       -lao .1th-t"'.  -r ha-hal P.,                  te     agea Mieiteae   be.lvI    saer
cetee   Prejes i.  -reste-ycleI              ha  ewta.  ie                           ineeee-aec 9Ptess.. pe eas   teed  er. ft ad rua wera    a
lasi raee -i tl  scretes  at hict ieeeacle  etc  aece ab p.r                      CsL ptia- pa  vt. LIe elih er1Cie. as nea  eta d              P-aea -s
cataIss   cUet. aS seat lferLtI tepaeer  etbeiasee cc- WIM-                     sall-    . repietp.   s--idu  eqa. tidsp..1-L.pee.a   tetr
s-isataisa!ilills   al fettcc  tcsa  arPreete   eria                        fa)-ei.   sna "dasitiaga  reases                 -Lt.   -.a 
elat  tie    - rem te sisal-  t-LErbt  rats, as~ si        --rthe ag..I Ee-jid
etIretto 1 -aes  cet-tast     - tic  a- ecice  t.sl  -j.9tarfetit  rare              W n-E, teest-lees tatleew     h"    q                               -I
each   tea.rsctts at   tie.  alae  tesr Zesestly. flu etaiasr1                            ea teas  ci, a_tiase c. i ste WIc   es      pyetg.atre ta
sealtis  la-atetde  h  bs   ttepeetdtettt'pls,eteec  peeai-; tasll  latde   biseadbt
FPItear et ttse raeassc   ere     Ssys   M cter                                             es-  is-  peptc et be.teee  be  the at Prta  irheel e-..         tl
Lepta& eeee. wt c   sared                                                              Isedc  eet-ett,el  e   rse-Captdase;aed
W.              W.eta0 ttee9 bestemoet. tIe   esur.  et tea 1     s   st  9apsedptspteesis
iota; 100. ItlO 55 if  at-                                                     recatlasa  rsatetc(trss C         scedcy  -VealeatNteta
MWIys,asetre   etpce  s er    persecees 51  td-yi[SeWlp -                             1:711-c  dipsreia a  ttier  etcieI.
pa. r~ilhta  fa  191.0,  ..0lU  ead taM-eL                                      soeadla  1eaa--
fttid Wa   tare (er thsiad  - ~lbah  per-tihi  ad ate-pearftaieecCa.-(e  tte.i  sele) - U                                           eseee.e-  case ceat. eseW
tees teIdtistT1b         wre.airl   Kaldbegtre es--s usul hec aWaicc   al
l9tL                                                                                    itaiseed rea,e-`e"Ia ta-erie aidIa  ear-a re -arel-aat tdle
tt.paet-E "I"esA-M. at.ai  Crelal d-gbasl   i  .19 secepre.                          eatU a- t etact  aafersa  er  spa   egeael lea
athrti         . -setaidlasae Ietee t 1 iseta Vaitly  -plsealagae  ete  betei  tIc-t                                3. -)-ALtp     1- -                    U
It rater -eLr thme  esratattaut t y--  rsare ltar hate   a C
PseUcllante - brs (aecassat arled sAt)-Peaig,fesld                            patl. pEste  4.rs5iaei   --r.tat-ts:  ea tid . e      rpaatt oei       .caa
dl sectied eisa. It tee. he. erass.                               .sq,aerr~~~~IT-11-9 Cl-rctte  tir  seIsIS  seee -  bar- t, te-  etergs
-f  _1.d            S~~~.-irla  cee   Jest ese    M. tecre   eetelar. dat ted aTVaisla
Mvita, ieet, Tat --a
feed adI.a.cate  war beate.Csdta  cater reasr  -W.d (s.a.                             Cta-sea  nai  atea.  er tse  e i   - Said- es t               ,- aira
tatS  7ea)htch are sdtIb  eW se-t  eatelt. (s.,.                      tikteiedea"tepa, slde  netSe   dis-ta rtn aid
set- Is. as  -c ev-nes)    trg    pradeatt  at eas etr  L.                               -bitt. site,
tea  -maste    .sa  Pemca  prtce etalte;  I-sitt. late, IsdI tiat
percase mtal efat -te  Itecee  at eeee      .e   - Ceasta trs-  parUr. ?res(ceesS. -  ieelel- saIapeci,tetd. C a..WIe
s-P-.- SaibleiwLi. .-ra  iita  rdc ta  aptete.fatpepe--Itattns _                               .-  Ia    . al  ea   teeaeaerles emegee  a. i
-pa.  a  regei tack   Set FAD    pisb   Ie-std Wfeed,1.-1-W    esd              eeeba-iO 1t7Joas teat ate,                  n   ,    y lW ee
ap a   e  dccthdle  f rerea-s-. ad 4ltcst  to reree  fee-ea-ltrerac.tagsetet,af es g
atheild les;  ih-e. 190aiisdm,cdettrct, ia                                                                       e  -setea."cata9-Ca eitete  tabs trse;ti.
tsrteta  asl.ef  rect (ectee-  is   - frt"t  ee.Ceat-  .1 pee ante.19,70.tttdae
6t0aiee.  See-  at teal preStP. pEr  a ea  ts eal-   1 eatm  ad1psetesat'If  at tetal' aiL, aS fasale pepsctatla at dl  e  -aetMLta-p
Wal_ prcee .9ida.1 te Asen skeel he asti   p-Wtai.  U-se.ties  1970  aId tIlt deta  This-  -   teas -  KIte- prttCAtn-  eat.
etsse   tta  tai the. .2 73 gres at teed ec-tai as 1) are                         ccl teett"' ag-ea  tatr  et th   epttee  idh            ce t         A
.d ate.) pseae     W    seee  tar the isI   sep        by JIa ts theI.atertaefr.ataa  ssa
Ibisd :,if.rteFd usisY; tll-S  170 as t19t ace                                        lcesltppiagyaa- Soat. at Pip.1ea.11  -is..  -i as   -A ~sae  a
Per -seesst   se.I- scs -i et els -  r.e't" eapaty of Cas
ate.                                                                            tarn ou-c, ,ccecytJal
eg.Cr-P 1-.  ev. ccattc    it th           ag s-aP;.a   a  deaT-tepe                      etr,dts  opss   sca  0p a.a   peacIs 40 peratod at
resets  a  4ccssIce tttli. tabI-; till, tita    itdce                                esbls
seraci larteita lassleer tieseed  - neatdeathsal l.fctc eidr s-   tttaita   *eaatehear-I ss  clyre  jo-- air  1ice)- edrbee ai Wmat"
pea a ae  er hesed  te  Itei:   t, I'ltl,   94 d"Lata                         Selc  9551   t-e   ss  Cte   et-lcihlaec      tt
ceas s c   .. acsr leee.s sl. pite - tita. sea, a  na                                  'iserteeell  adaqes  ike Pa-. saisetL e--efee  r        r--ta ta -n
jaels  ~  panic eta.l seis. aieaL) -lt vee.stt acsea  We eas fe bs
eater -eed,   bt.Ceetsd earfec   ase   srss   sttcrdtlti   ssrlielr!(S -te ceelte)- ehstd  ea
ses aes  illr la-ca   as .t-P-.t ta-td -  r-r  fthe  l  sta                       lae  aIth adjeesa  ICy, blater -te  ci iletag A. -ear.
f-e.i  ba ea.; er.  eates-hlW b.tce   Ite.dlaply  bt. the htaefer aJt                       neat- F--   at-  at.1                        I--,te trta  crt    I tabas
sh_ diL. tec1b --g the fsplpt estee se1d.
r    ch.   ~   at  ept (s. -  erea  as   urs) ives  b eacre
a perIsese ah te.      taittepplies  rraeiees
petata. -ad cl1aUse tesattt-      l-  tes



EM*ac IELO        r DATA - LXCAND
GW MR CAPITA N 1982 a/ - UM240
QM  NAIWAL IUCI IN 1982 b/                                  IAL RAE OF a1  (M, Gc.stant Prices)
US$ M lln      %               1970-75    1975-81    1Iq
WI at Huket Priem              7,338      100.0               -          -3.2       7.8
Gross D=wtic Investment          609        8.3             -11.9        -4.7      26.9
Grws National Savlma             340        4.6             -16.9       -12.5     59.6
Oawrt Accunt Balane             -269       -3.7
Export of CGOo, tS               337       4.6              -11.3        -7.3     35.9
Import of Goods, WS              557       7.6               -9.2       -5.4      15.3
VAUE AMED IN 1982 (At 1966 Pries) c/                       ON4EM         FDW
Centrml Gwrnit
US$ Million     X                                              QSh Millio)        lX of CDP)
1981/S2    1981_2    1971/72
Aglcultuwe                       536       56.8             arrant Recpts                      28,057        4.9       13.5
austtry                          44        4.6             OArrent EMture                      35,728       6.3       13.5              1
Services                         363       38.6            Cwrent Surplus                      -7,671       -1.3       -                N
Total                          943      1O0.0           COqitai   iq Eiiiture                 7,429        1w3        8.6             U
MUZY, QIMLT AND A1I 1E                     1977    1978      1979       1980       1981     1982 d/
(USh HItUon0Oitarga   Eud Period)
1Mu  SUPply                               7,40U    9,585    13,166     17,435     30,849    38,512
am*Credit to Gownut                       5,522    7,288    9,485      14,848     29,332    34,175
Sank Crait to Otter Sectors               2,885   3,221     3,371       5,951     11,459    23,42B
1977    1978      1979        1980      1981    1982 d/
(PeraFv4e or ld.  utRbers)
lbuy as X of GDP                           13.9    13.1      11.9         8.0        6.9       5.5
Gaural Price IraK (1966 u 100) e/           706     917     1.702       3,527      6,800     9,851
Amum  pjrcmtqp dm,ue  In:
Gaura]l Price Indec                       117.9    29.9      85.6       107.2       92.8      44.9
Bank Credlt to Pubilc Sector               15.3    32.0      30.1        56.5      97.5       16.5
ant Credit to Private Sector              48.9    11.6        4.7        76.5       92.6     104.5
mc.s
0
a/ Callkated by the sm comesaian tecimiqe as the WAorld Bart Atlas (adJutit  for the overvalued exdaz  rate but not fDr
any wderrecordirg of 'mado" trasactions).
b/ Calezintel at tm official wiuiim   etap rate. lT  estimtes of GW  at wariet piice  ane tturefore hidter than the per
capita OW estliute (iAkh is audjuted for thm cvrvaluad  adlhe rate) titm  PaIAtlOn.
c/ Up-to-date fte  an  nploynmt ad prductivity arewiaialable.
Fat tes.t.
e/ (MP deflator.
7    &t iupllcabla.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



BEST COPY RvAIL,WIE
BOtNIC DVEVmO4Wi DATA - UGANDAA
BALANC OF PAhMMNI ISM                                                                    IS EfR    (AeAge 1979-82)
U$ MiUion  Z d/
1979     1980      1981     1982a1
(US$ HiIJion)    -            Coffee                          337      97.3
Cotton                           4        1.2
Exports of Gbods, NFS                    412       332      248       337       TIa                                1        0.2
ImportS of Goods, NFS                  -391      -572      -524      -557        Tobacco                           1       0.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                21      -240     -276      -220        Other Exports                     3        1.1
Factor Seryices ad Transfers (not)       -28       -8       -17       -49         Sub-Total                      346      10D.0
Balance on Current Account                -7     -248      -293      -269        Adjusbments el                  324       93.7
Total                        34        9.
Offiecia Grants                           32        93       99        79
Public MS&LT Loam (net)                  109        82       -3       114           EC     MR, E     R(   31, 1981
Disbursemnts                          (150)    (134)    (107)    (218)                                            US Mlillion
Amortization                          (-41)    (-52)   (-110)   (-104)
Use of Furd Credit                        -4        27      125        82        Public Debt, incl. Giarane               577 f/
Other Itws  n.e.i. (net)                -195      -108       143      114    N hrCmranteud Private Debt                    .I
Overall Balance of Paymunts              -65      -154       71       120        Total Outstandrg and Disbud              577
Reserves (erd year)                       17        4        15        64        NEr Mr    J(CEZ RATW FM 1982 iL/
Payment Arrears (end year)               116       257      196       125                                                   X
Petrolm  Imports                          63       124      116       101        Public Debt, inl. Qartel                  46.1
Petrolem Exports                           -         -        -         -        Non-Gurantesd Prite Debt
Total Outstardir  ad Disbuedx           46.1
RAIE OF EXCHAN  c/                                                               IDD/IDA LWD    (June 30, 1983) (US$ Hillion)
- ---    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDX f/ MA
Amwal Averas          Eat Perlod
1980     1981      1982   Ar.1993        OutstandLrg and Disbursed          16     113
US$1.00 - U.Sh.                         17.4      W.2      94.5    124.5         Udisburul                           -      238
USh L.00 - US cents                     13.5       2.0      1.1       0.8        Outstandtg, incl. Undebured        16      351
a/ eatlmtes.
b/ Excludes official grants.
/ At wvLdow m. Ihe idhdW -two acharie rate wi USh 270 - US$1 at the end of April 1983.
Z of uiadjusted merchdadie aprts.                                                                                                          x  3
e/ Inclies errors and onlssio, ard adjustmuents for aluation, coverage ad timig.                                                             ,
fI includes Ugda's notiamial share (Lfl) of EAL loam.
if  Debt service payumnts (iuditr 1UT oblgatiom) as a percentae of exports of Sods and servces.
so Not avaLlable.                                                                                            Sqept 11 r 30, 1983             u,
I                                                                      .    



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower      Purpose                      Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                  8.40    120.531/
1077-UG   1981     Uganda      Technical Assistance                    8.00        7.08
1110-UG   1981     Uganda      Water Supply Engineering                9.00        6.34
1228-UG   1982     Uganda      Phosphate Engineering                   4.00        2.43
1248-UG   1982     Uganda      Industrial Rehabilitation              35.00       35.00
1252-UG   1982     Uganda      Second Reconstruction                  70.00       60.82
Program
1328-UG   1983     Uganda      Agricultural Rehabilitation            70.00       68.38
1329-UG   1983     Uganda      Third Education                        32.00       32.00
1367-UG   1983     Uganda      Posts and Telecommnnications          22.00        22.00
Rehabilitation
Total                                             8.40    370.53       234.05
of which has been repaid                        8.40     19.69
Total now outstanding                             0.00    350.84
Amount sold:                        8.32
of which has been repaid          8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    0.00    350.84
Total undisbursed                                 0.00    234.05       234.05
1./Includes exchange adjustment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1983 *
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan       Equity      Total
1965    Mulco Textiles, Ltd.         Textiles and        2.80       0.71        3.51
Fibers
1972    Tourism Promotion            Tourism             1.11         -         1.11
Services (Uganda) Ltd.                                                   -
Total gross commitments                          3.91       0.71       4.62
Less cancellation, termination,                  3.91      0.71        4.62
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held                         -          -
by IFC
Total undisbursed                                                        -
*     Two new investments for 1983, the Toro and Mityana Tea Company
Limited (TAMTECO) and the Sugar Corporation of Uganda were
approved by the Board on November 23, 1982 and April 26, 1983,
respectively; both are yet unsigned.



ANNEX II
- 29-                      Page 3 of 3
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year     Borrower       Purpose                  Bank 1/       Undisbursed
Nine loans fully disbursed                                 204.65
1204-EA  1976      EADB           Second Development        15.00           0.15
Finance
Total                                             219.65           0.15
of which has been repaid                         87.15
Total now outstanding                             132.50
Amount sold                         24.36
of which has been repaid          24.36           0.00
Total now held by Bank                            132.50
Total undisbursed                                   0.15          0.15
I/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
page 1 of 1
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
a) Date of first presentation to
the Association and date of
first Associatlon mission.         October 1982
b)  Date of appraisal mission          April 1983
c) Date of completion of
negotiations                       November 1983
d)  Planned date of effectiveness      March 1984
Section I1:     Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
a) Employment of a technical assistance coordinator by
June 30, 1984 (paragraph 50);
b)  Continued eaployment of the project coordinator
(paragraph 50);
c) Continued maintenance of a Review Commlttee to approve
subprojects (paragraph 51);
d) Adherence to procedures for review and approval of
subprojects (paragraph 51).



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
page 1 of 2
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS APPROVED UNDER CREDIT 1077-UG
(in SDR's)
Project Preparation
PP-1        Preparation of Third Education       344,000      Completed.
Project for IDA financing.
PP-2        Preparation of Third Highway         223,025      Completed.
Project for IDA financing.
PP-3        Petroleum Exploration Promotion      357,000      Consultant in
Project, Phase I (Airmag survey,                 fleld.
equipment)
PP-4        Feasibility Study and Detailed       230,375      Contract
Engineering Kampala-Jinja Road                   signed.
PP-5        Feasibility Study and Detailed        175,100     Contract
Engineering Nbarara-Ntungano-                    signed.
Rubaare Road
PP-6        Feasibility Study and Detailed       267,225      Contract
Engineering Nbarara-Ishaka-                      signed.
Katunguru Road
PP-7        Feasibility Study and Detailed       202,725      Contract
Engineering Masaka-Lyantonde-                    signed.
Nbarara Road
Technical Assistance
TA-1        Audit of Uganda Development           20,765      Completed.
Bank
TA-2        Four Expatriate Advisers in   )
Ministry of Works for period )
of nine months.                )     112,800     Completed.
)
TA-2A       Supplement                     )



- 32 -                        ANNEX IV
page 2 of 2
TA-3        Assistance to Uganda Tea              116,650     Experts In
Grower's Corporation                              field.
TA-4        Consultancy Services to carry         375,000      Experts in
out Project Appraisals for                        field.
Uganda Development Bank
TA-5        Assistance to Uganda Development  1,607,250        First four
Bank (cost-sharing with UNDP;                     experts In
Bank is Executing Agency)                         field.
TA-6        Assistance to Central Tender          297,000     Experts in
Board                                             field.
TA-7        Assistance to Agricultural          1,299,000     Experts In
Secretariat in Bank of Uganda                     field.
TA-8        Assistance to MPED In                 150,000      Completed.
reviewing the 1982-84 Recovery
Program
TA-9        Assistance to Ministry of             285,000      Experts
Finance Treasury Department                       being
recruited.
TA-10       Parastatal Accounting Study            95,0001/   Contract being
(Phase I)                                         negotiated.
Training
TR 1-8      Individual fellowships for             80,775      Six completed.
study overseas                                    Two in
progress.
TR-9        Participation by 11 Ugandan            14,700      Completed.
officials in Bank organized
Procurement Seminar in Arusha
1/ Estimated - final allocation will be made following completion of
contract negotiations.



- 33 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PART A: TERMS OF REFERENCE OF PROJECT COORDINATOR
The project coordinator in the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development will under the direction of the Permanent Secretary and in
close cooperation with the Technical Assistance Coordinator undertake the
following duties:
1.   Generation of Requests for Using the Credit
The project coordinator will keep all government ministries,
departments, parastatals and other agencies likely to utilize the credit
informed of the procedures for applying for funds, and the terms and
conditions of utilization of funds. He will perform such other tasks as
are necessary to ensure that all potential users are fully informed about
the availability of the credit.
2.   Processing of Requests
The Project Coordinator will, in consultation with the Technical
Assistance Coordinator:
(a) prescree"n all requests for technical assistance, studies,
and training to ascertain their eligibility for financ-
ing under the project and to ensure that all information
required for their review by MPED has been provided;
(b) arrange, in consultation with the technical staff of NPED,
for the technical review of these requests by the appropriate
sector specialists vithin MPED and other specialists from
other Government or non-government agencies, and the pre-
paration of review reports with recommendations on the
requests;
(c)  in consultation with the Permanent Secretary of MPED who is
the chairman of the subproject review committee, schedule
meetings of the committee to consider the reviewed requests.
The project coordinator will serve as the secretary of the
committee; and
(d) submit subproject requests approved by the coMmittee to the
Association for approval and allocation of funds,
communicate the Association's comments and decisions to the
committee members and the applicant ministries or
parastatals, and follow up on additional information
requirements from the Association.



- 34 -
ANN= V
Page 2 of 7
3.   Implementation of Approved Subprojects
The Project Coordinator will:
(a) assist the ministry, department, parastatal or Government
agency responsible for implementing any approved subproject
in flnal selection of the experts, consultant firms, training
institutions and candidates, in the award of contracts for
equipment and supplies, in negotiating the terms of contracts,
and generally in the Implementation of the subproject;
(b) assist as necessary in organizing the work of consultants
in the field;
(c) follow-up on behalf of MPED the progress in execution of
all contracts under the project including disbursements to ensure
that subproject objectives are being met;
(d) ensure that final reports of all studies financed from the
credit are submitted to the Association and appropriately
distributed within the Government; and
'e) maintain records adequate to record and monitor project
implementation and prepare and submit semi-annual reports
to the Association.
PART B: TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE SUBPROJECT REVIEW COMNITTEE
1.  Membership
The Committee will consist of the following:
(a) the Permanent Secretary of the MPED as chairman;
(b) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the Chief Government Development Economist of MPED; and
(d) four members of the Borrower's ministries and agencies.
2.   Responsibility and Procedure
The Committee will review the reports and recommendations of the
technical staff of MPED on all subproject proposals and decide whether to



- 35 -
ANNKX V
Page  3 of 7
submit them to the Association for final approval and allocation of funds
under the credit. In carrying out thl responsibility the committee will
take into considerationi
(a) the development and rehabilitation prioritles of the Goverrment;
(b) other possible sources of financing for the requests under
consideration, and their availability and timeliness;
(c) for feasibility and rehabilitation studies, the likelihood
of funds being available for implementing projects studied;
and
(d)  such other factors as will ensure that credit funds are used
for high priority activities.
The Comittee will meet regularly as determlned by the flow of applications
and will keep adequate records of its discussions and decisions.
PART C: PROCEDURES FOR SUBPROJECT PROCESSING
A.   Introduction
A subproject under the project would be either:
(i) a technical assistance proposal consisting of i.a. long- and
short-term experts and consultants, training, both formal and on
the job, as well as associated equipment and supplies; or
(ii) a study to be carried out by consultants and, in appropriate
cases, training and equipment for the implementing agency; or
(iii) proposals for individual or group training mainly in Uganda.
Subprojects will be proposed by Government ministries, departments,
parastatal institutions and other public or private bodies and will be
submitted to the project coordinator in NPED.
B.   Preparation of Subprojects
The institution proposing a subproject will be responsible for
preparing it in such detail as will facilitate its evaluation. The
following guidelines should be used in preparing such requests:



- 36 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
(a) technical assistance proposal
(i) dosecription of the background, scope and justification for
the proposed assistance;
(11) description of technical assistance provided or to be
provided to the Implementing agency from other sources;
(lii) detailed subproject description, preferred source of
expertise such as experts and consultants, (including
their draft terms of reference), similar operating entity
or University, description of proposed training programs
and on the job training as well as list. of equipment and
services;
(iv) detailed description of the contribution to be made by
the staff of the implementing agency (including their
terms of reference) as well as of any assoclated action to
be taken by the implementing agency to ensure or enhance
the success of the subproject;
(v) detailed cost estimates showing details of manmontha of
expert and consultant services, of national staff from the
implementing agency, cost of training and equipment all
broken down into foreign and local costs and showing any
taxes payable by consulting firms or experts or in
connection with procurement of equipment and supplies;
(vi) amount of financing required from the credit Including
details of Items to be financed as well as descriptlon of
how local costs would be financed;
(vil) proposed Implementation procedures including those to be
used for recruitment of experts, selection of consulting
firms (including shortlist of firms to be invited to
present proposals), design and 1-o,lementation of training
programs including selection of trainees as well as
procurement of equipment and supplies.
(viii) in the case of revenue-earning parastatals and other
public institutions, a statement '.y MPED on possible cost
recovery in approprlate cases.
(b) studies
(i) justification and scope of the study;
(li) draft terms of reference;



- 37 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 7
(iii) cost estimates showing details of projected manmonths
of consultants' services, requirements of expendable
and non-expendable equipment as well as any training,
formal or on the job, and a breakdown of these costs into
foreign and local costs;
(iv)  indication of staff from the implementing agency
(including their curriculum vitae) to be made available to
work with the staff of the consulting firm;
(v) amount of financing required from the credit detailing
items to be financed;
(vi)  other possible sources of financing for the study, and
the status of applications t3 these sources, if any;
(vii) short list of suitable consultants for the type of study;
(viii) timing and phasing of the study;
(ix)  possible or intended sources of finance for any invest-
ment projects which may arise out of the study; and
(x) statement by MPED on possible cost recovery in
appropriate cases, where the studies are expected to lead
to an investment.
(c) training
(i) training program for the organization or, at least, for
the organizational unit for which the training is proposed
setting out i.a. objectives and functions of the
requesting organization, its staffing requirements and
present staffing, qualifications of its staff and their
training needs as well as a plan for providing the
necessary training;
(ii)  proposed curriculum for individual fellowships and
proposed course content for seminars to be organized in
Uganda, or proposed on the job training assignments
supervised by a similar operating entity;
(iii)  justification for proposed training with specific
indication of how it will help improve the requesting
organization;
(iv)  cost estimates broken down into relevant subcategories
i.a. travel, tuition, stipends, teachers, reading
material, or supervision costs for on the job training,
etc., and divided between local and foreign costs;



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
(v)  amount to be allocated from the credit and indication of
how remaining costs would be financed;
(vi)  iuplementation arrangements, e.g. whether arrangements
have been made with institutions abroad for individual
study, how seminars will be organized, where and by whom;
and
(vii)  in the case of revenue-earning parastatals and other
public institutions, a statement by MPED on possible cost
recovery in appropriate cases.
C.   Evaluation of Subprojects
MPED's technical staff will be responsible for evaluating sub-
projects and recommending their approval for financing from the credit, or
their rejection. The technical staff will follow these guidelines:
(a)  the accuracy of all information contained in subproject
requests wilU be reviewed and evaluated;
(b)  the justification of the subproject will be evaluated
against Government's overall sector and investment plans; and
(c)  the availability of other sources of financing for the sub-
project will be explored.
After evaluation, the technical staff will prepare an evaluation report
with recommendatious. The recommendations should:
(a) specify whether the subproject should be approved, rejected, or
modified;
(b) specify the amount to be approved from the credit; and
(c) specify any special terms and conditions for the approval.
D.   Approval of Subprojects
Approval of subprojects will be the responsibility of the
subproject review committee in MPED, and the Association.
(a)  Role of Review Committee
The subproject review committee will consider all recommendations
of the technical staff and make its decisions on the basis of
these recommendations. It may approve the recommendations as
submitted or request further information and evaluation.



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
(b) Role of the Association
The Association will be responsible for final approval of all
subprojects. The project coordinator will submit copies of all
evaluation reports and recommendations, and the decisions of the
subproject review committee to the Association, as and when these
decisions are made.
E.   Implementation of Subprojects
Subprojects will be implemented by the institution which proposed
them, with assistance from MPED as necessary. The implementing institution
will:
(a) invite proposals from the approved shortlist of consultants,
evaluate such proposals and select the consultant in
accordance with Government procedures and Section 3.03 (c)
of the Credit Agreement;
(b) where staff are to be recruited, advertise, recruit and
select candidates;
Cc)  apply to training institutions for approved candidates for
training;
*d) make arrangements for seminars and other training courses
to be held in Uganda;
*e) procure equipment of supplies that form part of an approved
subproject in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Credit
Agreement and Central Tender Board procedures;
*-) execute all contracts relating to subprojects;
(g) prepare all documentation required for applying for
disbursements under the credit for submission to the
project coordinator, who then formally submits disbursement
applications to the Ministry of Finance for forwarding to
the Association;
(h) follow up on the performance of consultants, expatriate
staff and trainees;
(i) ensure that copies of final consultants reports are made
available to MPED; and
(j) prepare and submit to MPED periodic reports on the
implementaton of subprojects and, at the completion of the
subproject, a completion report setting out i.a. the costs
and benefits of the subproject.



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
page 1 of 2
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PARASTATAL ACCOUNTING STUDY
The objectives of the program for all selected organizationsl/
are:
a) to assist in up-dating the financial statements, including
preparation of up-to-date inventories of assets, or in the
preparation of Statements of Affairs where this is a
satisfactory alternative;
b) to identify and recommend to Government and the organizations
on financial policy issues requiring resolution before
financial viability can be sustained;
c) to identify and briefly detail (including terms of reference)
any technical, marketing or management studies which may be
required to re-establish profitability and financial
viability;
d) to recommend to Government mechanisms for Government
regulations and financial control of these organizations;
e) to recommend on and assist in the introduction or
strengthening of financial management, accounting and
financial control systems; including recommending measures to
be implemented following completion of this assignment;
f) to review the demand and supply of accounting personnel and
the needs to improve the use of, or access to EDP facilities;
g) to identify office equipment, machinery and computer spares
which may be suitable for funding by IDA, which will be
required by the parastatal organizations in the implementation
of financial and accounting work programs.
In addition, the following matters should be addressed:
A. The Public Service Corporations
To assist in the preparation of income and cash flow
projection, supported by appropriate cost analysis, necessary
to support recommendations by the corporations for tariff
levels and service charges through 1984.
1/ For a list of the organizations that could be included in the
study see Attachment 1.



- 41 -ANNEX VI
page 2 of 2
B. The Production Companies
To assist in the preparation of income and cash flow
projections, as well as cost and other analysis necessary to
assess their profitability and financial viability, either
individually, or by activity groupings (e.g. textiles, steel)
and recommend appropriate policy measures, such as financial
restructuring or mergers, or technical, economic marketing or
management studies to establish possible policy options,
necessary to achieve financial viability in two/three years.
Before initiating the full program of studies, a small team of
consultants would spend about two months in Uganda to prepare a detailed
work program including an activity chart for the consulting team
specifying the tasks to be studied, their timing and relative priority
within the manpower likely to be available and the logistic constraints
(especially accommodation and transport for the consultants). This advance
team will also review with Government the number and appropriate grouping
of the corporations to be studied. In recommending the relative priority
of the organizations to be studied, the consultants should take account of
the urgent need to determine the costs of the major export marketing
organizations (e.g. the Coffee Marketing Board) and to revise the tariffs
of the major public service corporations. The work program would in
particular address the question of the number of parastatals to be
studied, the depth of each study, and the time by which results could be
produced. It would be desirable to organize the work so that preliminary
or practical results can be made available at an early date for the
priority organizations.
In this context, the consultants should also consider if the work
of the two teams proposed should be carried out simultaneously or be
phased. The work program would be presented to the Steering Committee and
IDA for approval before the team's main assignment commences. The advance
team will also prepare the budget for the studies.



- 42 -
Attachment I
page 1 of 3
1. AGRICULTURAL MARKETING BOARDS AND CORPORATIONS
PRODUCE MARKETING BOARD
COFFEE MARKETING BOARD
LINT MARKETING BOARD
UGANDA TEA AUTHORITY
UGANDA TEA GROWERS CORPORATION
DAIRY CORPORATION
UGANDA LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES LTD.
KINYALA SUGAR WORKS
2. PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATIONS
UGANDA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
NATIONAL WATER & SEWERAGE CORPORATION
UGANDA AIRLINES
UGANDA TRANSPORT COMPANY
TRANSOCEAN UGANDA LIMITED
UGANDA POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD
NATIONAL HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION
UGANDA CENTRAL COOPERATIVE UNION
UGANDA COOPERATIVES TRANSPORT UNION
UGANDA COOPERATIVES ALLIANCE
3. TREASURY GROUPS
NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
UGANDA COOPERATIVE BANK
BANK OF UGANDA
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT BANK
HOUSING FINANCE COMPANY OF UGANDA LIMITED
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF UGANDA
UGANDA AMERICAN INSURANCE COMPANY



- 43 -
Attachoent I
page 2 of 3
4. PARASTATAL BODIES AND GOVERNMENT OWNED COMPANIES UNDER
THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
UGANDA GRAIN MILLING COMPANY LTD.
EAST AFRICAN DISTILLERIES LTD.
UGANDA MAIZE INDUSTRIES
TORORO INDUSTRIAL CHEM. & FERT.
PAPCO INDUSTRIES LTD.
UGANDA HEAT PACKERS LTD.
LANGO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
AFRICAN CERAMICS CO. LTD.
ASSOCIATED PAPER INDUSTRIES
UGANDA LEATHER & TANNING INDUSTRY
LAKE KATWE SALT COMPANY
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (U) LTD.
UGANDA STEEL CORPORATION
THE UGANDA ENAMELLING COMPANY (TUMPECO)
RORORO STEEL WORKS
UGANDA BAATI
UGANDA HOES
UGANDA METAL INDUSTRIES
MAST AFRICA STEEL PRODUCTS
NATIONAL TEXTILES BOARD
NYANZA TEXTILES INDUSTRY
PANBA TEXTILES
LIRA SPINNING MILL
UGANDA RAYON TEXTILE MANUFACTURERS
UNITED GARMENT INDUSTRY
UGANDA BAGS & HESSIAN MILL
UGANDA BLANKET MANUFACTURERS
UGANDA GARMENTS
LEBEL (EA) LTD.
NATIONAL TOBACCO CORPORATION
PRINT PARK
UGANDA PACKING INDUSTRIES
UGANDA CEMENT CORPORATION
TOROROCEMENT FACTORY
HIMA CEMENT FACTORY
UGANDA BREWERIES LTD.
NILEBREWERIES LTD.
LAKE VICTORIA BOTTLING COMPANY



- 44 -
Attachment I
page 3 of 3
JUBILEE ICE & SODA WORKS
DUNLOP (EA) LTD.
ASSOCIATED MATCH COMPANY LTD.
UGANDA FISHNET KMANUFACTURER
MDKISA FOODS LTD.
AFRICAN TEXTILE MILL
EAST AFRICA STEEL CORPORATION
KAKIRA SUGAR WORKS
EMCO OIL REFINERIES
MADVANI SOAP INDUSTRY LTD.
EMCO CONFECTIONERIES
EAST AFRICAN GLASS WORKS
LUGAZI SUGAR WORKS
ECTA ENGINEERING CORP.
UGANDA TEA CORPORATION
CABLE CORPORATION OF UGANDA



- 45 -                          ANNEX VIJ
pagw t  of 2
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TWO ACCOUNTANTS IN THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
The two accountants would be placed in the Treasury Department,
one as head of the division in the Treasury responsible for the accounts
of all ministries and the other to tak' charge of the Inspectorate who
have units in all ministries supervising accounting procedures.
The detailed terms of reference are:
a) Deputy Coumissioner, Treasury Officer of Accounts
Mi)     he will assist the Commissioner, Treasury Officer of
Accounts and head the Division responsible for
accounting for Government expenditure. He will have
responsibility for day to day operations in compliance
with Government financial instructions, assuring that
daily statements are available of expenditure under
each Vote item, and that potential expenditure
overruns are anticipated;
(ii)    he will draw up and put into effect a program for
improving the management and organization of the
department; this may involve not only overhauling the
Financial and Accounting instructions, most of which
date from pre-independance, but in reorganizing the
office in accordance with the technical facilities of
modern office equipment. le will also cooperate with
the Budget Adviser as regards budgetary structures and
expenditure classification. As part of the operation
he will be asked to organize both on - and off - job
training of Treasury Staff;
(iii)   he will assist in bringing accounts up-to-date and
producing audited accounts. This work, which will be
of lower priority than the major operational and
reorganizational tasks noted above, will involve
co-operation with the Comptroller Auditor General's
office, which is in the same building;



- 46 -                     ANNEX VII
page 2 of 2
b) Head of Treasury Inspectorate
(1)     he will ensure through the Inspectorate unilts In
the ministries that financial procedures are
correctly carried out;
(ii)    he will also ensure that commitment records and rate
books are adequately kept;
(iii)   he will prepare a program for improving the
effectiveness of the Inspectorate includlng its units
in ministries. He will also organize both on - and off
- job training for Inspectorate staff.
10,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 47                         ANNEX VIII
page 1 of 1
UGANDA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ONE LIVESTOCK ECONOMIST
IN THE MINISTRY OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY & FISHERIES
The Livestock Economist will be posted as an Adviser in the
Planning Division of the Ministry of Animal Industry & Fisheries.
The Adviser's main responsibilities will include:
(i)     carry out research into constraints and potential of
animal production and fisheries sectors, both as these
affect existing and new projects;
(ii)    assist with the identification of priority development
projects and/or programs as part of the rehabilitation
program of the Ministry of Animal Industry A Fisheries;
(iii)   prepare such development projects and/or programs in
sufficient detail to enable submission to external
agencies for their consideration and appraistil. This wsrk
would involve the preparation of project briefs/profiles,
project memoranda/proposals in whatever format required by
specific agencies, revision of already existing projects,
etc. Project preparation would cover every relevant
aspect, e.g. descriptive, financial (recurrent and
development budget) implications, cost-benefit analysis,
organizational and infrastructural requirements, etc.;
(iv)    assist in laying the foundation for more longer-term
development planning for the Ministry of Animal Industry &
Fisheries, for inclusion in the country's future national
development plans;
(v)     assist in providing on-the-job/in-service training to the
ministerial planning team, not only tc improve ministerial
planning capabilities, but also to ensure the effective
continuation of the Ministry's planning activities upon
the departure of expatriate staff;
(vi)    assist with the re-establishment of basic statistics for
the Ministry in order to facilitate and improve future
planning and decision making.






