                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30066

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-28330)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR235.5 MILLION (US$350.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                                  INDIA

                                                 FOR A

                      STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II




                                           September 21, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective May, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
                                     Rs. 44.90 = US$ 1.00
                                  US$ 0.02227 = Rs. 1.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                     April 1 - March 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMs     Aide-memoires
ANMs    Auxiliary nurse midwife
BOR     Bed Occupancy Rate
CAS     Country Assistant Strategy
CHC     Community Health Center
DOs     Development Objectives
DOF     Department of Finance
GOI     Government of India
FM      Financial Management
HMIS    Health Management Information System
HNP     Health, Nutrition, and Population
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education and Comunication
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MHCS    Mobile health care service
NGO     Non-government Organization
PGB     Project Governing Board
PHC     Primary Health Center
PHSC    Punjab Health System Corporation
PMC     Project Management Cell
PSR     Project Status Report
PSS     Patient Satisfaction Survey
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RCH     Reproductive and Child Health
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SHS     State Health System
SPC     Strategic Planning Cell
WMS     Waste Management System


                               Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                             Country Director     Michael F. Carter
                     Sector Manager/Director      Anabela Abreu/Julian F. Schweitzer
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Preeti Kudesia

                                            INDIA
               STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Reports                                           28

Project ID: P035825                                                  Project Name: STATE HEALTH SYS II
Team Leader: Preeti Kudesia                                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: STATE HEALTH SYS II                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-28330
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (95%); Sub-national government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Other communicable diseases (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1995                                     Effective: 04/18/1996                06/27/1996
     Appraisal: 10/03/1995                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  10/27/1999
      Approval: 03/21/1996                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 03/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/DEPT OF HEALTH & FW; GOVT OF KARNATAKA; WEST BENGAL;
                                           PUNJAB
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph D. Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Nga Nguyet Nguyen                              Tawhid Nawaz
ICR Primary Author:             Nga Nguyet Nguyen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The State Health Systems Project II (SHS II) was designed to respond to particular problems manifested in the
health care systems of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal. The unfavorable fiscal situation in mid-1990s had
resulted in unstable and low levels of public spending in the health sector compared to other countries in the
region. Compounding with the low spending was weak management and planning and systematically inefficient
allocation of public resources, with much of budget absorbed by salary costs at the expense of non-personnel inputs
and maintenance. The private sector, a major provider of services, was virtually unregulated and delivered care of
widely variable quality.
    The SHS II, which was developed and processed quickly, sought to: (i) improve efficiency in the allocation
and use of health resources through policy and institutional development; and (ii) improve performance of the
health care system through improvements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first
referral level and selective coverage at the primary level to better serve the neediest sections of society. The first
referral level was the focus of much of the project's work because of the observed disproportionately high
contribution to the tertiary level of health care at the expense of first referral facilities and preventive and
promotive care services; and the fact that health facilities at the primary and first referral hospitals in the states
continued to face operational deficiencies due to inefficiencies. In addition in areas where necessary, as in the
Sunderbans area of West Bengal, the project also supported interventions in primary health care.
          The project's development objectives were appropriate to address key issues in health sector reforms in
India in general and in the three states in particular. They were consistent with government's Eighth Plan
(1992-97), which identified health as one of the six priority areas and determined that public investment in health
was critical for human development and poverty reduction in India. The development objectives supported the new
commitment to reform the public health system and improve quality of health services, and to engage the private
sector in providing better health services in three states. This commitment is reflected in state governments'
Health Sector Development Plans, which were summarized in Annex 2 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The
objectives also were consistent with priorities for Bank's involvement as reflected in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for India, which highlighted the importance of an enabling environment for broad-based, efficient,
private sector-led growth while accelerating the development of human resources. In the human development
sector, the CAS emphasized the need to enhance access to basic services for the poor, including strengthening the
performance of state health systems. In these areas, the Bank was seen as having a comparative advantage. It is
important to note that, whereas the project purports to be about "state health system", in fact it mainly focused on
strengthening secondary level services. Given the government's priorities in improving basic population-level
health outcomes, a more comprehensive approach to state level health system might require giving more attention
to services focused on these priority outcomes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were relevant and remained unchanged through the project's life.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components:

Component 1: Management Development and Institutional Strengthening (US$26.6 million; 7 percent of base
costs), with three sub-components: (i) improving the institutional framework for policy development; (ii)
strengthening the management and implementation capacity of institutions; and (iii) developing a surveillance
capacity for major communicable diseases and response capabilities. The primary inputs for this component
included local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultant services, and salaries of incremental staff on a
decreasing basis. In addition, inputs included minor civil works, furniture, vehicles, equipment, and operational
expenses.

Component 2: Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District, Sub-divisional and Community/Rural
Hospitals (US$308.2 million; 86 percent of base costs) with three sub-components: (i) upgrading community,
sub-divisional and district hospitals; (ii) increase effectiveness of clinic and support services; and (iii) improving
the referral mechanism and strengthening linkages with the primary and tertiary health care levels. The primary



                                                          - 2 -

inputs for this component included civil works, equipment, professional services, building maintenance, and
operational expenses, as well as management information system/information, education and communication
(MIS/IEC) materials, local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultants, and salaries of incremental staff
on a decreasing basis.

Component 3: Improving Access to Primary Health Care in Remote and Under-developed Areas (US$24.3; 7
percent of base costs), with two sub-components: (i) upgrading primary health centers and improving access to
primary health care services in the Sunderban area of southern West Bengal; and (ii) increasing access to primary
health care services among the scheduled caste/scheduled tribe (SC/ST) population in Karnataka. The primary
inputs for this component included civil works, equipment, furniture, riverine vehicles, medical and laboratory
supplies, medicines, and operational expenses, as well as MIS/IEC materials, local training, studies, fellowships,
workshops, and professional services.
     In general, the design of all components was related to achieving the overall development objectives although
the activities were quite limited to project health facilities (mainly in the public sector) and targeted areas. Thus,
in implementation the project was narrower than implied by the more comprehensive / broader scope of the project
objectives.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no change in the design of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry Assessments were not conducted in the Bank in 1995, when the project was initiated. At the
current time, the Project would probably have obtained a satisfactory rating, given the following reasons included
in the 1999 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment: (i) consistency of objectives with the priorities for health
system development and poverty alleviation; (ii) utilization of lessons learned from previous projects in India and
health sector; (iii) demonstrated high commitment from three states; iv) cross-learning among the states involved
in both this and other health projects; and v) built-in flexibility and fostering of ownership at the district level. The
QAG assessment also observed that quality at entry might have been improved had the design team opted for three
separate projects, one for each of the three states.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the achievement of the development objectives of this project is rated as satisfactory: the first objective
was partially achieved, and most of the targets associated with the second objective were achieved or exceeded,
with some exceptions.

     With respect to the first objective ­ the efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources was improved as
reflected in the overall increases in the share of health resources dedicated to the primary and secondary levels
(except in Punjab) as well as increase in government spending for non-salary recurrent costs, particularly for drugs
and supplies. However, state health spending for secondary level declined in absolute terms in the last two-three
years in Karnataka and Punjab (see section 4.2 for details). The most significant shortcoming was weakness in
maintaining the share of overall public spending for health sector at least at pre-project levels. Although the SAR
stated that the project aimed to "increase financing for the health sector" and that the state governments committed
"they would at least maintain the share of health sector allocation within the overall budget at FY94 levels", no
specific target was set in the SAR. Despite this, overall public financing for health was monitored closely in
Mid-term Review and all Project Status Reports (PSRs). Only Punjab met this commitment (if newly revised
baseline share of government spending on health was used instead of the baseline share in the SAR). Given the
relatively low shares of public spending on health in these states in FY03 and FY04 (around 4 % of total public
expenditure) (see Annex 1), the reduction in absolute levels of state government spending on health in the last few
years, and the importance of public financing for health in these states, the first objective is considered to be
partially achieved.

     The achievement of the second objective ­ improving access, quality and effectiveness of the health care
system­ was satisfactory. The project planned to bring benefits to about 17 million beneficiaries. Estimates in all



                                                           - 3 -

three states by the project management units show that at the closing of the project, about 50 million people had
benefited from the project. All 571 hospitals were upgraded and re-commissioned. Major improvements were
observed in the following areas: a large increase in admissions, tests, X-rays, and surgeries; increased availability
of drugs, supplies, and equipment in completed facilities (see Annex 1 for details); enhancement of clinical skills
of doctors, nurses and paramedics through in-service training; and increased access to basic health services in the
Sunderban areas in West Bengal through non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and for SC/ST and women in
Karnataka. Data were not available on these indicators for non-project hospitals including private sector to allow
for a comparison and an assessment of net impact the project had at the health sector level. Information from
patient satisfaction surveys (PSSs) showed that in general, project hospitals had modestly higher ratings for
cleanliness, equipment, as well as staff-related factors (attitude, time spent with patients, guidance, and so forth)
compared to pre-project status. However, some doctor-related indicators worsened slightly between the last two
rounds in 2002 and 2003 in West Bengal and Karnataka.

          There are some qualifications concerning the achievement of the second objective, primarily because of
variation in performance across the states. First, the poor in West Bengal and Karnataka benefited greatly from
facilities improved under the project: 85 percent of patients from upgraded hospitals in West Bengal and 72
percent of out-patients and 48 percent of in-patients in Karnataka were from the below-poverty-line (BPL) group of
households. In Punjab, the experience was different: shares of patients from BPL group declined from 30% of
out-patients and 32% of in-patients in the 2002 PSS to only 20% of out-patients and 23% of in-patients in the 2004
PSS. If the estimated poverty rate of 30% for project districts in Punjab (see the SAR) was taken into account, it
seems that the poor did not proportionately benefit from the project. Secondly, although expenses for medicines
were lower and services available in upgraded hospitals were much cheaper than those provided by the private
sector, out-of-pocket expenditures for diagnostic services in project hospitals in Punjab were two to three times
higher than those in non-project public hospitals. This is true for all types of hospitals covered by the project
including rural hospitals. This may explain the lower access to upgraded health services in project facilities by the
poor.

          Thirdly, analysis of the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Surveys shows that in all three states,
although situation was slightly improved between 1999 and 2003, only about a half of total deliveries were
institutional deliveries (IDs) by 2003. The share of IDs in total deliveries was only a third for the poorest 20%
group. Among total number of IDs, share of IDs provided by the public sector in Punjab declined substantially
from 97 % in 1999 to only 26 % in 2003. In Karnataka, public sector share in total IDs declined from 55% in
1999 to 33% in 2003 (see Annex 1). In contrast, in several good performing states -- Andhra Pradesh, Kerala,
Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal -- the public sector accounted for more or less the same share in total IDs over this
period.

          Finally, the impact assessment of SHS II project commissioned by project management in West Bengal
expressed a concern that the project may have little impact on the quality of human resources, given the lack of
appropriate incentives for more accountability, commitment and patient-friendly attitude. This was partially
addressed through in-service training and better infrastructure in hospitals. However, absenteeism by physicians
continues to be a problem in some upgraded hospitals in Karnataka and patient satisfaction with doctors'
performance was lower in 2003 PSS compared to 2002 round in both West Bengal and Karnataka. Whether this
has something to do with the worsening health budget situation is still a question which is beyond the scope of this
report.

4.2 Outputs by components:
          The project covered 571 hospitals including district, sub-division, and rural hospitals. It also supported
upgrading of Community Health Centers (CHCs) and block CHCs in remote areas in Sunderban, West Bengal, and
developing a network of health check-up camps in Karnataka.

Management Development and Institutional Strengthening. Implementation of this component is rated
satisfactory. The key outputs of this component were: i) Increased public financing for health sector and improved
allocation of public health resources; ii) strengthened capacity of the implementing agencies in sector analysis and




                                                         - 4 -

management; and iii) enhanced role of the private and voluntary sector in the delivery and management of health
services.

     Allocation of public health resources was improved in two out of three states in terms of overall increased
shares of state health resources dedicated to the primary and secondary levels (from 59 percent in FY94 to 90
percent in FY03 in Karnataka; from 76% in FY96 to 80% in FY01 in West Bengal). In Punjab this share declined
from 86 % in FY94 to 81% in FY03, and more importantly, share of government health resources allocated to
secondary level was reduced from 25% at pre-project to 19% at project completion. Government health spending
on secondary level even declined in absolute term continuously in the last three years in Punjab, and in the last two
years in Karnataka (see Annex 1). Public health spending for non-salary recurrent costs, particularly for drugs and
supplies were increased from the beginning of the project. It should be noted that for these two targets, baselines
were not identified in SAR for West Bengal and Karnataka. The assessment was based on base-line and actual data
recently reported by the government and in aide-memoires (AMs). However, overall public financing for health
sector measured by shares of total state expenditure allocated to health were lower in FY03 and FY04 as compared
to the FY94 levels in Karnataka and West Bengal.

     Capacity of the implementing agencies in sector analysis and management has been strengthened in several
ways. A Strategic Planning Cell (SPC) was established in all three states (Punjab Health System Corporation
(PHSC) in Punjab) to analyze health sector critical issues, monitor progress and provide analytical support to
management in policy development and planning for the health sector. More than 70 studies and background
papers had been done to provide inputs and foundation for policy and institutional development under the project.
For example, the recommendations of the study on microbial contamination in Karnataka had led to the
government issuing Executive Order and passing a Government Order for the establishment of the Nosocomial
Infection Control Program. In West Bengal, studies and policy analysis produced by the SPC were used to provide
inputs for the formulation of a Health Sector Strategy. In Punjab, a Study on Female Feticide found a significant
improvement in sex ratio, and attributed such improvement to intensive IEC activities. Situation assessments of
health quality had been done to provide inputs for developing standards, performance indicators and assessment
methods under a Quality Assurance Program (QAP).

     A computerized Health Management Information System (HMIS) was established at state, district and
project-facility levels to provide management at all levels with information to assess hospital performance and
provide feedback for follow-up actions. The QAP with a list of staff and technical norms was applied in project
hospitals in order to ensure quality of services provided. A waste management system (WMS) was deployed in a
large number of project facilities (91 percent of project facilities in West Bengal) to promote the incorporation of
appropriate health care waste management practices in daily operations. The waste generated was segregated at
the source and collected in bags and bins of different colors, then treated and disposed. This component was
documented as best practice within the Bank due to coordination system established with the enforcement agencies,
attempts at waste minimization from procurement stage, revenue generation and development of good quality IEC
materials that are being used by the Bank and disseminated in other countries through training videos. A policy of
user charges was implemented in all project facilities for paying beds and wards, diagnostic tests and surgery,
out-patient services and health certificates. Revenues collected were retained at the project hospital level (except in
West Bengal) and used for non-salary recurrent expenditure items such as drugs, other medical supplies, and
maintenance.

     Structured involvement of the private and voluntary sector increased. Private contractors were involved in
providing supporting services such as ambulance, sanitation and maintenance. 178 out of 214 hospitals in West
Bengal, all 154 hospitals in Punjab, and 170 out of 204 hospitals in Karnataka contracted-out supporting services
(ambulance, sanitation, and maintenance) to private sector service providers. Five NGOs were involved in
providing non-clinical services as well as IEC in remote and under-served areas. However, beneficial impacts on
private health providers were not fostered through project activities, in general. There was virtually no clear
spill-over impact on the private sector in terms of the development of a regulatory framework to monitor private
health sector development and ensure quality of health care provision. The project mainly focused on contracting
out some supporting services (ambulance, sanitation, security and maintenance) to private providers, which does
not necessary facilitate engagement and development of "private health sector" as anticipated in SAR and the


                                                        - 5 -

health sector strategy. Moreover, services made available at cheaper prices at upgraded hospitals may have
crowded-out the private sector in providing health services. No data collected by the project through the HMIS and
PSSs permit comparison on performance between project and private hospitals. In Punjab, although PSSs permit
some comparisons to be made between project and non-project hospitals, results may not be valid due to sample
selection problems. In addition, the project may have missed opportunities to facilitate the engagement of private
health sector in providing essential health services where larger and larger numbers of people (including the poor)
are obtaining health services as shown by RCH data between 1999 and 2003 (Annex 1).

    Enforcement and implementation of these policy and institutional developments have not been without
problems, however. As already noted, in West Bengal revenues collected were not retained at the facility level, and
were not used for paying for non-salary recurrent items. In such case, collecting more fees from users would not be
expected to lead to improved quality of services provided.

    Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District, Sub-divisional and Community/Rural Hospitals.
This component is rated satisfactory. The main outputs of this component include renovations and expansions to
District, Sub-divisional and Community/Rural Hospitals; more effective and better quality of clinical and support
services in project hospitals; and an improved referral system.

         All of the key output targets were achieved or exceeded, or major progress had been made, with the
exception of targets for bed occupancy rates (see Section 4.1). A total of 571 hospitals were upgraded / renovated /
expanded compared to 524 hospitals as planned. Several output targets were exceeded, including the number of
admissions, out-patients, laboratory tests, surgeries, and X-rays. In Karnataka, the total number of beds at project
hospitals was 13,499 at pre-project and increased to 19,206 at project completion compared to 18,690 projected in
the SAR. Approximately 40 thousand medical staff were trained under project's support; all project institutions had
implemented Quality Assurance Program to improve service delivery and customers' satisfaction, based on
acceptable standards, key indicators, and methods for periodic assessments. Results were used to identify key areas
that need quality improvement and plan of actions; supporting services were contracted out to private sector in all
project facilities, etc. However, there was no clear evidence on the improvement in referral system.

         There was some evidence of under-utilization of upgraded facilities. While actual bed occupancy rates
(BORs) were increased from 80% in West Bengal, 37% in Karnataka, and 41% in Punjab at pre-project to 88%,
41%, and 49% respectively at project completion (See Annex 1), the bed occupancy rates did not meet the
ambitious targets set in the SAR and the BORs were too low in Karnataka and Punjab. Project's contribution in
terms of increasing number of hospital beds has not been matched by a significant increase in utilization
(especially at smaller community hospitals). Staff commented in PSSs in Punjab that 27 percent of services
provided at project hospitals could have been provided at lower level. This shows that a tighter link between
primary and first referral levels of care as a result of improved referral system could have unloaded hospitals from
providing these services. In West Bengal, government had commented that non-involvement of the prospective
users in project preparation and         non-availability of properly trained personnel, doctors etc. had led to
non-utilization or under-utilization of some of the equipment in different hospitals.

         The Impact Evaluation Report done in West Bengal shows that "in general, an overwhelming feel-good
environment exists among the common people regarding infrastructural improvement in the hospitals". However,
the discussants perceived that: "development in infrastructure could not be enough of a catalyst for improving
health care services"; "The change in service delivery system, according to community's perception, still has a
long way to go to match with such infrastructural development"; "It is a common concern that the hardware inputs
would eventually go astray if supplementary inputs were not put into operation. The major supplementary inputs
include: (1) availability of drugs, (2) the approach and behavior of the hospital staffs towards common patients, (3)
availability of doctors and technicians, and (4) change in referring practice." These, coincidently, were also
highlighted in Karnataka's PSSs as the major areas for improvement.




                                                          - 6 -

Improving Access to Primary Health Care in Remote and Under-developed Areas. This component is rated
satisfactory. Key outputs of this component were upgraded Primary Health Centers (PHC) in the Sunderban areas
of West Bengal and improved access to PHC services among SC/ST population in Karnataka. In West Bengal, the
project upgraded 28 PHCs and 8 block PHCs in the Sunderban areas. In addition, three floating medical units were
set up to provide health care in riverine areas. In Karnataka, medical check-ups were made available in health
camps to be organized at the headquarters of every auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM). This was a special
contribution of the project to improve delivery of health care services to these remote and under-served areas.

     There was clear evidence of improvement of access to basic health services for the targeted groups. For
example, in Karnataka, 7 million people (mostly ST/SCs) received health check-ups at 48,725 yellow card camps.
In West Bengal, 382 villages were covered by mobile health care services as compared to the target of 351
villages. And 1.85 million people were provided with basic health services, including specialist and diagnostic
services, compared to target of one million. In addition, an independent external evaluation of the impact of mobile
health care services (MHCS) provided by five NGOs in the Sunderbans area documented the positive impact and
greater accessibility to health care provided by these NGOs. The Impact Evaluation carried out in West Bengal
also found a high level of satisfaction ­ "MHCS have huge potential benefits since the dependence of people on
local unqualified providers has drastically declined". It noted concerns, however: "this component is not well
integrated with the existing public health system" and "service delivery system need to be focused to address the
community's needs."

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
     The Project's Institutional Development impact was positive. The project aimed to develop two types of
institutions: i) management and implementation capacity; ii) institutional framework for policy development.

     The management capacity of the Departments of Health and Family Welfare (Government of West Bengal,
Government of Karnataka), and Punjab Health System Corporation (Government of Punjab) to make more
effective use of their human and financial resources was strengthened. Resolving skill mismatches and shortage of
professional staff in project hospitals, contracting out supporting services to private sector, and/or reallocation of
public health resources toward secondary and primary care levels, and toward non-salary recurrent costs are good
examples. The SPCs (in cases of West Bengal and Karnataka) and PHSC (in Punjab) were established under the
chairmanship of the Health Secretary. This arrangement could help to make best use of strengthened capacity of
the SPCs and their activities to support the state in planning and making informed decisions concerning sector
policy and strategy (see Section 4.2).

     Staff management capacity at headquarters was enhanced through training and staff were able to undertake
increased responsibilities and perform new functions, such as organizing data collection and utilization for
planning, policy making and problem solving. Capacity to manage the secondary level of care at the state, district
and facility levels was strengthened. For example, hospital managers were able to maintain a completely revised
medical recording system for in-patient and diagnosis services. District level managers were able to use HMIS data
to rate performance of hospitals based on a set of clinical and quality indicators and make informed decisions as a
result. The project facilitated decentralization of management to district and Block Panchayats levels in West
Bengal. The involvement of the Panchayats in decision making will help to consolidate the decentralized
administration of health care delivery.




                                                          - 7 -

     Major improvements in institutional framework for policy development were observed in areas such as HMIS;
user fees; procurement of drugs; equipment maintenance; rational use of drugs; contracting out services to private
sector; NGOs contracted for IEC and behavior change communication etc. While these improvements could have
potential impacts at the system level, the spill-over effects to other non-project facilities varied greatly among the
states and policy areas, depending considerably on government financial, institutional capacity and its commitment
to health sector reforms (see Section 6). In West Bengal, for example, a HMIS for the primary, secondary and
tertiary levels was developed, operationalized and is now being used for management purposes. HMIS reporting
was extended to all 450 facilities upwards of block-level in the state, beyond the 214 project facilities, and
planning, monitoring and follow-up action on the basis of a set of indicators is being undertaken. However,
retaining revenue collected from user fees at facility level is still a major issue to be discussed with state
government. In Karnataka, the shortage of doctors and medical professional staff remained a key problem even in
project hospitals as cited by PSSs. On the positive side, standards of procurement of drugs followed by the project
were adopted by the states for procurement unrelated to the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One important factor outside the control of state governments was the deterioration in states' fiscal conditions that
led to declines in public spending on health during the last two years of the project (see Section 4.1). In principle,
however the project could have been able to protect health spending in the face of fiscal problems. Its failure in
doing this was partially due to the fact that the decisions of budget allocation between sectors were made by
Department of Finance (DOF) in each state whose involvement in the project was quite limited.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors under the control of state governments had a partial impact on the achievement of project objectives. First,
the project benefited from strong commitment and the political support for the health sector reform, except in the
area of public financing for health. This included support for the contracting out of services to private sector and
partnership with NGOs, establishment of and using HMIS for management and planning purposes, deployment of
WMS, application of drug procurement guideline, etc.

       Second, the three-tier organizational structure of project management contributed significantly to the timely
decision making and close monitoring of the project. At the top, a Project Governing Board (PGB)/Board of
Directors (BOD) was established, including high-level representatives from all relevant parts of state Government
associated with the project. The PGB/BOD was fully empowered to make major policy decisions and develop a
broad policy outline for the project; approve the annual budget; authorize major project revisions as necessary;
ratify decisions made by the Steering Committee (in Karnataka); formulate rules and regulations; and undertake
annual review of project implementation and monitor overall project progress. Reporting to PGBs/BODs directly in
Punjab and West Bengal, and through Steering Committee in Karnataka, were Project Management Cells (PMCs)
headed by an Additional Secretary as the Project Administrator in Karnataka, a Special Secretary as the Managing
Director of the PHSC in Punjab, and a Special Secretary as the Project Director in West Bengal. The functions of
the PMCs included all aspects of routine project management, monitoring progress, maintaining flow-of-funds and
project accounts, providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing progress reports. At the
district level, a District Health Committee/Project Implementation Cell facilitated functioning of the various
activities to be carried out under the project.

On the other hand, continuation and consistency of commitment from state government played an important role.
Retention of funds at the facility level ­ which was stated in West Bengal Health Sector Development Program ­
did not occur as originally conceived because of continuing objections by the Accountant General. Increasing of
public financing for health is another example of unfulfilled commitment. These issues were raised repeatedly
during supervision missions, and remain to be resolved.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment of the implementing agencies enabled the project to achieve most of the targets in the SAR,



                                                          - 8 -

with a good track record of meeting fiduciary responsibilities and operating smoothly, except on financial
management in West Bengal and to a lesser extent in Karnataka. In general, project units were staffed adequately
to carry out functions under the project, although the lack of awareness of Bank's financial procedures in West
Bengal resulted in delays in submission of audit reports as well as reports containing large disallowances. The
decision to co-locate all departments in West Bengal ensured effective coordination during implementation.
Several rounds of patient satisfaction surveys helped to assess performance of project facilities and satisfaction of
the beneficiaries concerning the services provided by these facilities. Involvement of NGOs and private sector
providers was realized through partnership and the establishment of a contracting-out relationship between the
public sector implementing agency and NGOs and private sector in carrying out research and providing supporting
services.

     Project implementation in West Bengal suffered from delays soon after start-up. Although the
non-infrastructure aspects of the project were implemented quite well from the beginning, it took about two years
for the project to initiate the civil works. This was due to a number of reasons including: inadequate staffing of the
PMC, bad selection of consultants (West Bengal), failure of the consultants in preparing bid documents in the first
phase of the project, lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement methods, and difficulties with flow of funds to
the PMC. In Punjab, project start-up was delayed due to the change in management and the continuing debate
around the PHSC and the early ambivalence of the new government to the PHSC.

5.4 Costs and financing:
     The total cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$416.7 million. The project costs in Karnataka,
Punjab, and West Bengal were estimated at US$136.4, US$106.1 and US$174.2 million respectively. Of that
US$350 million was to be financed by an International Development Association (IDA) Credit and US$66.7
million by the Governments of West Bengal, Karnataka, and Punjab. Because West Bengal had savings of about
US$6 million, while Karnataka and Punjab had nearly completed their activities in FY04, the Bank in consultation
with the three state governments decided that these savings be re-allocated to Karnataka and Punjab.

     The Project became effective on June 27, 1996, and was originally scheduled to close on March 31, 2002. It
was extended by two years and closed on March 30, 2004, due to initial delay and with the intention of
strengthening several components including re-opening of all facilities upgraded under the project, installation of
equipment; strengthening non-infrastructure components; further improving coordination with primary care in
areas such as referral, disease surveillance and health management information system; intensifying supervision
and monitoring; and improving practices related to the rational use of drugs, which was not originally included in
the project.

          By project closing, the IDA Credit of SDR 235.5 million turned out to be equivalent to US$ 315.3 million
rather than US$ 350 million as had been the case at appraisal. The distribution of the Credit proceeds in the end
was as follow: West Bengal: US$ 129 million; Karnataka: US$ 105 million; and Punjab: US$ 81 million. The
actual/latest estimate of the total cost of the project was US$ 401.5 million equivalent. Regarding disbursement, by
project closing the IDA Credit of SDR 235.5 million had been almost fully (99 %) disbursed. Details are given in
Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
     Project sustainability is likely for several reasons. First, all three state governments show strong political
commitment to health sector reform as reiterated in Government's Eighth Plan (1992-97) as well as state
governments' Health System Development Programs (Annex 2 in the SAR). The strong commitment was shown in
implementing as well as maintaining achievements generated by the project.

     Second, the project brought major changes in institutional development and management effectiveness. The
HMIS, including the hospital grading system set up under the project has been expanding to outside health
facilities in West Bengal. The state governments continue to address the issues of manpower and staffing where
vacancies and inappropriate skill mix exist. Contracting out support services to private sector and involving NGOs



                                                           - 9 -

in providing health services in remote areas has proven to be cost-effective and markedly increased patient
satisfaction. Through this practice, the state governments have expressed more acceptance and appreciation of role
of private sector in providing support services and NGOs in delivering clinical services to the poor. The state
governments have already shown their intention to continue and expand involvement of NGOs and the private
sector. Other institutional developments and regulations which were developed under the project and shown good
effect in project hospitals could be expanded to outside project facilities. These include quality assurance system,
the waste management system, procurement of drugs, hiring practices, equipment maintenance, and so forth.

     Third, public spending for secondary level increased during the life time of the project in two out of three
states. The exception was Punjab where the share of health expenditure allocated to secondary level declined
significantly from 25% in FY94 to 19% in FY03, including a reduction in absolute terms. For the future it could be
expected that the resources for sustaining the benefits of the project would be available, given strong projected
growth of the economy, and likely strong political support for these types of health services. Financial
sustainability of the hospitals may be further aided by user charges.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
          State governments are engaged in dialogue with several donors for technical, financial and institutional
support to ensure that the gains from this Project will not be eroded. In West Bengal, the Department of Health
and Family Welfare prepared and presented a costed plan to the Department of Finance to sustain key activities
and maintain the assets created under the project. The recurrent funds for the additional staffing and maintenance
of facilities created under the project were agreed between the Bank and West Bengal Department of Health and
Family Welfare. There has been on-going dialogue with donors including DFID, EU and KfW/GTZ to maintain
strong commitment to health sector reform and consolidate changes in the decentralized administration that the
project brought about. In Karnataka, this will be facilitated by government's strong commitment to health sector
reform and the on-going dialogue between the Bank and government with regard to the follow-on project at the
primary level. In Punjab, the State Government has agreed to continue to manage secondary level health care
services through PHSC. It has also decided to provide additional Rs. 100 million in 2004 to maintain operations of
the PHSC and to supplement the supplies being provided to the hospitals under the project. However, a longer term
commitment will be needed to ensure the sustainability of the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project was well prepared with strong involvement from both the Bank and governments. The
Staff Appraisal Report is a comprehensive document consistent with both Government and Bank priorities. For the
most part, preparation teams were fielded with the required expertise and the skill-mix was maintained
throughout identification, preparation, and appraisal / negotiation. One important area of expertise, however, was
inadequately represented ­ private sector development. This inadequacy is reflected in a lack of attention to a
comprehensive approach toward facilitating engagement and development of the private health sector. Assessment
was slightly hindered by the lack of measurability of development objectives and specifications of performance
monitoring indicators (baselines, targets, etc) in the SAR.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Overall project supervision and reporting was adequate, for the most part, as were mission terms of
reference, frequency of supervision and time spent in the field. Aide-memoires and follow-up letters focused on
key, specific detected implementation problems, suggested interventions, and follow-up agreed actions for each
state. The team was innovative and efficient in its use of resources, and made good use of support from the India
Country Office; third parties were involved when needed (e.g. independent technical audit of unexpectedly high
expenditures in one state). The supervision effort also deserves credit for fostering learning exchanges between
states, and in dealing effectively with implementation barriers. The team's contribution to project implementation
was highly appreciated by the government (see Annex 8: Borrowers' Evaluation Reports).

More attention could have been paid to net impacts of the project at the sector level (in connection to the



                                                        - 10 -

non-project public and private hospitals) and its impacts on access to health services by the poor in general to help
government to make informed and timely decisions. For example, early detection of some problems as mentioned
above could have prompted further investigation, interventions and / or management decisions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower actively participated in preparing and facilitating preparation of important inputs for
the design of the project. The project design was based on detailed sector analyses conducted in all three states,
including Social Assessments, Public Expenditure Review, Beneficiary Need Assessments, Reviews of the Private
Sector in Health Care, Site Surveys of First Referral Hospitals, and others. Strong Borrower commitment to the
project was clear and played an important role in successfully preparing the project in approximately one year.
There was close cooperation at the time of preparation between the Government and the Bank, with leadership and
vision provided by the main counterparts in each Department of Health. Representatives from all the counterpart
agencies were involved in the preparation of the loan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. In all three states, Governments showed strong commitment to health sector reform. Fund flows
under the project were largely smooth, except for some specific instances of delays in the initial years in Karnataka
and West Bengal. Counterpart funds were made available through the budgetary route. A computerized Financial
Management System was developed in-house by Karnataka and West Bengal for submitting the project reports and
claims and in Punjab a separate legal entity was created to manage the FM arrangements under the project. Despite
initial low disbursement in the first two years, project implementation was accelerated (especially after the
Mid-term Review) and the project was effectively implemented in the end. After the Mid-term Review, the
Government and the Project Management Teams took specific actions to show their renewed commitment to the
project at the highest level. For example, in West Bengal procurement and contracting were improved substantially
after 1999. In Punjab, project start-up was delayed due to continuing debate around the PHSC. However, in the end
the PHSC was assigned the role of managing the project and time lost was covered through its excellent
management and monitoring of project activities.         Meanwhile, the PHSC was officially recognized as a
government organization, and even has more financial and management authority than before. All legal covenants
in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement were complied with except for the covenant on retaining
user fees in West Bengal.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Project units have capable and relevant skilled staff, except more attention should be given to
financial management capacity in West Bengal and Karnataka. Project management units have been able to
manage a complicated project with large amount of civil works and challenging policy components without major
problems. As already noted, disbursement was quite high (99 percent) by project closing. Most of development
targets were achieved or exceeded. Management capacity at district as well as hospital level was strengthened.
Functions of project management units are being transferred to DOH to follow up the project's activities and
maintain benefits generated. Excellent and effective management capacity of the PHSC impressed the government,
and the PHSC is formally considered a government agency to manage secondary level hospitals. All project
management units in three states had effectively made maximum use of technical assistance provided to
successfully implement project. In the project, private providers and several NGOs were involved to provide
non-clinical services and some clinical services in remote areas. Stakeholders were consulted and participated
during preparation of the project. However, their participation in monitoring and evaluation of the project's
performance was quite limited as noted by the evaluation done in West Bengal and private sector providers.
Overall, the initial slow disbursement was reversed after the Mid-term Review, and the pace of project
implementation was maintained at high level, especially in the final year.

     Audit reports under the project were generally received much after the due date containing large



                                                       - 11 -

disallowances, especially for West Bengal and Karnataka. Most of the disallowances related to the advances to
various authorities which were claimed from the Bank and then disallowed by the State AG due to "over reliance of
the State AG on the State government financial procedures" and its appreciation on the need to conduct audit
timely (comments by borrower from West Bengal). Many of these were subsequently recertified requiring
re-submission of claims, involving un-productive use of resources.

    Monitoring and evaluation of project's performance was done relatively well, though it varied between states.
HMIS was developed and data were collected to assess performance of project facilities, although on a more limited
number of indicators than what was described in the SAR. Several rounds of PSSs were conducted, generating a
comprehensive analysis in all three states. Among other things, PSSs were designed to permit assessment of project
impact on access to health services among the poor. In addition, in Punjab non-project public hospitals were
included in the sample so that performance of project hospitals could be assessed against that of their counterparts
in the public sector. It is a pity that the comparisons were not possible due to sample selection issues. It would have
been even more useful if some private health facilities were also included so that further comparison with
performance of private sector and assessment of net impacts of the project at the sector level could be made.
Performance on fiduciary responsibilities improved substantially during the course of project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Governments during the SHS II is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be learned which may be important for future state health projects and programs in India,
South Asia, and elsewhere.

During preparation to appraisal stage

·        A close link between health system improvements, policy and institutional reforms on one hand, and
achieving desired health outcomes on the other hand, should be better reflected in project design and be
monitored accordingly. Achievement of key intermediate indicators such as improvement in institutional delivery,
immunization, etc., and access to basic health services for the poor need closer attention.

·        Regular policy dialogue to address the problem of low public financing for the health sector is
extremely important: Decision on allocation of public monies to the health sector is under the jurisdiction of the
state Department of Finance (DOF), with involvement of many other sectors and government agencies. Thus,
increasing public financing for health and improving its management will be achieved only if there was an
effective coordination between various government agencies with a strong leadership, participation and support
from DOF and regular policy dialogue with relevant government agencies. This is also important for a project with
a component on policy and institutional developments. In addition, identifying appropriate targets and indicators to
monitor improvement in allocation efficiency of health resources is necessary. In this project for example, share of
government health resources allocated for primary and secondary levels taken together is not a very helpful and
appropriate indicator, since the share for one level might be changed in undesired direction.

·        An appropriate approach to improve performance of the public health sector is essential: It is
important to sharpen focus of the public sector on service priorities in terms of both resources and management.
These priorities should be developed keeping in view the level and direction of private sector involvement in the
sector and the appropriate role of the public sector. In principle, the public sector should seek to crowd-in rather
than crowd-out private health services. Public sector direct involvement in providing health services, and further
investment in public hospitals should generally be based on equity consideration and on existence of public goods,
externalities, information deficiency, and insurance market failures. Regarding public hospitals, more
comprehensive approach will be needed to improve their performance including giving more autonomy in
combination with tighter budget constraints and some principles on fiduciary management. An overall regulatory
framework for setting public-private partnerships and / or contracting out clinical and non-clinical services to
private sector and / or NGOs to make more effective use of public facilities and skills should be developed.



                                                         - 12 -

  ·         Facilitate development and more engagement of private health sector in delivery of health care to
  achieve Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is necessary. Contracting-out supporting services to private
  sector is an important step in systematic engagement of the private sector. In addition, creating a regulatory
  framework to help improve quality of care provided by the private health sector, contracting-out more health
  (clinical) services (where the private sector is more efficient in delivering the health services) to private health
  providers, and minimizing potential negative impacts on their development while creating a level-playing field for
  them are essential. These are more urgent when the private sector plays an important role in providing health
  services for the population including the poor. And enhancement of the public sector capacity in monitoring and
  facilitating development of the private sector deserve special attention. And before decisions are made about
  upgrading infrastructure, an analysis should be conducted to determine if the most efficient route is to expand and
  improve the delivery of services through the public sector, or to take advantage of existing private sector
  investments and use public monies to finance delivery of private services for the poor and thereby to stimulate
  improvement in the quality of private services. Financing health services for the poor regardless of who will
  provide services (such as through health insurance) could be a good example.

  During project implementation:

  ·         The commitment of the government and the political will for the support of the health project / sector
  and the reforms played a vital role in the project's achievements. Government support in providing adequate
  budgetary support, in contracting out non-clinical services to private sector, and in implementation of other
  reforms, are good examples. On the other hand, more needs to be done to understand the obstacles to fulfill state
  governments' commitment on increasing public financing for the health sector.

  ·         Measuring and monitoring performance is critical for management decisions and to ensure high
  impact of project activities on the health sector. Development objectives should be clearly defined and
  measurable. Performance monitoring systems should include measurable intermediate indicators that are essential
  for achieving better health outcomes, such as institutional deliveries, antenatal care, births attended by professional
  health workers, immunization, and so forth. Data collection to monitor performance should be designed in a way
  that allows assessing net impacts of the project at sector level and/or on overall access to health services for the
  poor. For example, PSSs should have included project and non-project hospitals (from both the public and private
  sectors). Sample selection should be paid adequate attention to ensure that data collected could be used for
  comparison purposes. Targets should have been set for performance indicators to effectively assess the achievement
  of the project. Output / outcome indicators and monitoring and evaluation are useless without solid initial baselines
  or if baseline levels were modified at project completion. Although project impacts on outcome indicators can be
  difficult to measure and monitor frequently, selective and strategic impact evaluation could be done to guide project
  design and policy formulation, especially when the operations / interventions are likely to be replicated and
  scaled-up. To measure the project's impacts on access to health care for the poor, some indicators should be set
  specifically for them, and systematically measured and monitored.


l Ensuring adequate financial management (FM) capacity: Another lesson learnt is the need to have properly
  trained financial management staff in place right from the beginning of the project to ensure full financial
  accountability and adequate follow-up. The FM arrangements should always be geared to mitigating the disparate
  arrangements for implementation and yet be simple and flexible to meet the dynamic demands of project
  implementation.

  9. Partner Comments

  (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
  As this is a complex project covering three large states, full Borrower's Evaluation Reports (ERs) are attached in
  Annex 8. Some of the borrower's comments and lessons learned have been incorporated in the relevant sections in
  the text. There may be some inconsistencies in data used in the main text and Borrower's ERs as the former uses
  the most updated data provided by the borrower' Project Management Units.




                                                           - 13 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers, although the project benefited from a number of simultaneous and complementary
activities financed in parallel by other donors. For example, in case of WB other donors such as DFID, GTZ, and
KfW have participated and contributed to hold regional workshop to share experience between states.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from several NGOs were collected through a questionnaire sent out following the ICR mission. In
general, NGO respondents indicated that they appreciated project benefits in terms of expanding capacity of public
secondary hospitals to provide health services for the public, and in improving access for the poor and tribal groups
in remote areas. NGOs acknowledged project contributions in enhancing the role and participation of private and
voluntary sector in the delivery of health services, and recognizing their role in improving access to services in
remote areas. They also noted some weaknesses of the project, and particularly the paucity of management and
health personnel involved in the project if the project's outputs are going to be maintained and expanded to the
whole sector. Respondents cited the need for effective incentives for and better supervision of health staff at all
levels to change attitudes, behavior and accountability to clients, and particularly to the poor. NGO respondents
also mentioned the importance for future projects of integrating Sunderban component's activities into existing
health system and of early involvement of NGOs in project preparation to ensure that projects are realistic and
cost-effective.

10. Additional Information




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of institutions under the project       Not specified                            All project facilities
utilizing HMIS
Percent awareness among doctors of referral                                             PJ: 100 %
system (%)                                                                              Kar: 95%
In-patient waiting time (minutes)              Kar: 30                                  PJ: 30; Kar: 20
Out-patient waiting time (minutes)             Kar: 45                                  PJ: 19; Kar: 27


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Share of total state budget spent on health    WB: 5.3 % (FY96)                         WB: 6.4 % (FY01)
sector                                         PJ:  7.2 % (FY94)                        PJ: 4.5 (FY01) 3.8 % (FY03)
                                               KAR: 6.4 (FY95)                          KAR:6 (FY97-00) 4.7 (FY03) 4.3 (FY04)
Share of health resources allocated to the     WB: 76 % (FY96)                          WB: 80 % (FY01)
primary and secondary levels of health care    PJ:  86 % (FY95)                         PJ:   80.8 % (FY03)
                                               KAR: 59 % (FY95)                         KAR: 88.6 % (FY03)
Health budget allocations for provisions of    WB:                                      WB: Rs. 107.65 crore (7%) (FY03)
drugs and essential supplies and               PJ:   Rs. 7.9 m (FY96)                   PJ:   Rs. 224.8 m (3%) (FY03)
consumables                                    KAR: Rs 50,000/PHC (FY01)                KAR: 788 m (7%), Rs 85,000/PHC (FY03)
Implementation of a user charge policy;        WB: Minimum                              WB: Substantial
Revenues collected.                            PJ: Rs. 4 m (FY96)                       PJ: Rs. 120 m (FY03)
                                               KAR: Rs 3 m (FY97)                       KAR: Rs. 145 m (FY02)
Number of project institutions implemented     None                                     WB: 178 / 74
contracting out of services to private sector                                           PJ: 62 / 58 / 154 (4)
                                                                                        KAR: 170
Institutions staffed in accordance with agreed WB: Few                                  WB: All DHs, SDHs and 70 % of RHs
norms                                          PJ/KAR: Unsatisfactory                   PJ: 80 %
                                                                                        KAR: 82 %
Number of admissions to institutions under     WB:    1.5 m (FY97)                      WB: 1.94 m (FY03)
the project (% increase)                       PJ:    0.2 m (FY96)                      PJ:   0.331 m (FY03) (65 % )
                                               KAR: 0.6 m                               KAR: 1.1 m (FY03)
Out-patient consultations (number and          WB: 14.8 m                               WB: 21.4 m (FY03)
percentage increase)                           PJ:  3.972 (FY96)                        PJ:   8.42 m (FY03) (112 %)
                                               KAR: 12.6 m                              KAR: 21.7 m
Number of hospital beds under project          KAR: 14,858                              KAR: 19,206
facilities                                     Punjab: 4,378                            Punjab: 6,374
Bed turn over rate                             WB:    55.7 / 65.7 / 74.3                WB: 78.60 / 76.64 / 103.92
                                               PJ:     38.84                            PJ:     52.48
                                               Kar: 4.55 (FY01)                         KAR: 4.9 % (FY03)
Increase bed occupancy rate to 100% (WB), WB:         81% / 74% / 48% (1)               WB:     90.1% / 85.22% / 82.3%
82% (PJ), 78% (KAR) (6)                        PJ:    43.1 % (FY96)                     PJ:      49.3 % (FY03)
                                               KAR: 37 % (FY96)                         KAR:    41.2 % (FY03)
Reduce average length of stay to 8 (WB), 10 WB:          12                             WB:         4.10 / 4.05 / 2.83
(PJ), 8 (KAR)                                  PJ:        12                            PJ:          3.43
                                               KAR:       15                            KAR:        3.5 (FY03)
Percent /number of inpatients and outpatients WB:      10.5% / 5.6% / 3.5% (1)          WB:    20.26% / 13.37% / 7.27%
in institutions under the project receiving    PJ:      7.6 (FY96)                      PJ:     42.3 (FY03)
diagnostic tests.                              KAR:   1 m                               KAR: 3.9 m
Number of major surgeries (% increase)         PJ: 0.04 m (FY96)                        PJ:     0.229 m (472 % (FY03)
                                               KAR: 30,425                              KAR: 230,000
Number of x-rays (% increase)                  PJ: 0.084 m (FY96)                       PJ:     0.551 m (556 % (FY03)
                                               KAR: 170,909                             KAR: 480,000
Number of medical staff trained and number Staff received little or no training since   WB: 4312/ 8016/1102/1625/531 (2)




                                                                - 15 -

of training courses held according to plan    completion of degree                       PJ: 4074 / 1521 / 4019 / 2200 (5)
                                                                                         KAR: 2,899 / 0 / 4902 / 4968
Number of institutions under the project that None                                       WB: All project hospitals
have implemented Quality Assurance                                                       PJ:   All project hospitals
Program                                                                                  KAR: all 204, 6 had ISO 9002/1994
                                                                                         Certificate
Number of Facilities                          None                                       WB: 213 hospitals completed
expanded/upgraded/renovated and                                                          PJ:   all 154 hospitals
operational                                                                              KAR: all 204

Number of people provided basic health        KAR: Piloting in 8 PHCs in Mysore and      WB: 1.85 million
services with specialist and diagnostic       Hassan Districts                           KAR: 7 m ST/SC provided with health
services.                                                                                checkup in 48,725 camps

1End of project
(1) District / Sub-divisional / Rural hospitals
(2) Mos / Nursing staff / Paramedics / Specialist MO / Management training for nurses and paramedics
(3) Number of villages covered by mobile health care services (% of all remote villages in the Sunderbans)
(4) Ambulance / Sanitary / Maintenance services
(5) Doctors / Nurses / Paramedical Staff / Class IV Employees
(6) Baseline values on BORs taken from SAR; Recently AMs and state governments in Punjab and Karnataka use
the baseline values of BORs of 43.1 and 37 respectively.

Table 1: Institutional deliveries in selected states, 1999-2003
                        Share of IDs in total    Share of IDs by public Share of IDs by private
        State                deliveries:                    sector:                   sector:
                         1999           2003        1999            2003         1999          2003
Karnataka                 49             53           55             33           45            67
West Bengal               37             49           77             74           23            26
Punjab                    42             46           97             26            3            74
Andhra Pradesh            46             59           35             33           65            67
Kerala                    97             95           33             35           67            65
Tamil Nadu                81             87           46             47           54            53
Source: Staff's estimates based on RCH Surveys 1999 and 2003

Table 2: Institutional deliveries by the poorest group in selected states, 1999-2003
                          Share of IDs in total        Share of IDs by           Share of IDs by
         State                 deliveries:               public sector:           private sector:
                           1999           2003        1999          2003        1999        2003
Karnataka                    30            30           77           75          23           25
West Bengal                  16            27           92           93           8             7
Punjab                       20            24           91           21           9           79
Andhra Pradesh               29            33           48           47          52           53
Kerala                       92            87           55           60          45           40
Tamil Nadu                   68            74           66           72          34           28
Source: Ibid.

Table 3: Percentage sought antenatal care during pregnancy for the poorest group, 1999-03




                                                                 - 16 -

                     1999          2003    Percentage point increase
Karnataka            26.3          70.2                 43.9
West Bengal          33.0          81.6                 48.5
Punjab               30.4          68.5                 38.1
Andhra Pradesh       23.9          71.6                 47.8
Kerala               29.3          99.3                 70.0
Haryana              30.4          63.7                 33.4
Tamil Nadu           27.9          94.7                 66.7
Source: Ibid.

Table 4: Percentage sought antenatal care during pregnancy for all, 1999-03
                     1999          2003      Percentage point increase
Karnataka            27.3          84.4                 57.1
West Bengal          29.2          88.2                 59.0
Punjab               29.1          85.8                 56.8
Andhra Pradesh       24.5          88.3                 63.8
Kerala               31.5          99.4                 67.9
Haryana              30.5          80.6                 50.1
Tamil Nadu           28.0          97.7                 69.8
Source: Ibid.

Table 5: Proportion of children having partial immunization by sector, 1999-2003


                       1999         2003     Increase in immunization coverage (% of children) in:
                                               Total     public sector private sector     other
Karnataka               30           93          63           42             9             13
West Bengal             29           90          61           52             3              7
Punjab                  27           88          60           48             11             1
Andhra Pradesh          26           96          70           52             19            -2
Kerela                  31           98          67           52             14             0
Haryana                 30           83          53           27             6             19
Tamil Nadu              30           100         70           40             26             3

Source: Ibid.

Table 6: Proportion of poor children having partial immunization by sector, 1999-2003

                       1999         2003     Increase in immunization coverage (% of children) in:
                                               Total     public sector private sector     other
Karnataka               32           88          56           36             0             20
West Bengal             31           90          59           50             1              8
Punjab                  26           72          46           39             4              2
Andhra Pradesh          28           93          65           59             7             -1
Kerela                  30           98          69           63             6              0
Haryana                 31           64          34           8              1             24
Tamil Nadu              32           99          68           57             5              6
Source: Ibid.
Note: Partial Immunization- Percent of surveyed children who received at least one of four vaccinations, namely
BCG, three doses of DPT, oral polio, and measles. The figures are a combination of information recorded on the
child's vaccination card, or, in cases where a card was not seen by the interviewer, as reported by the mother.




                                                        - 17 -

Table 7: Proportion of children having full immunization, 1999-2003
                         Poorest group (20%)                Better-off (20%)                        All
       State          1999       2003      Increase     1999      2003      Increase     1999      2003   Increase
Karnataka              19           32       13          21         68         47         20        46        26
West Bengal            11           15        4          16         47         31         14        25        10
Punjab                 15           15        0          20         58         37         18        35        17
Andhra Pradesh         17           19        2          15         57         42         17        34        17
Kerela                 20           58       38          23         71         48         22        65        43
Haryana                16           4        -12         20         46         26         18        21        3
Tamil Nadu             21           65       44          20         77         57         21        70        49
Source: Ibid.
Note: Full Immunization - Percent of surveyed children who received all four vaccinations, namely BCG, three
doses of DPT, oral polio, and measles.

Table 8: Budget allocation for health and its allocation by State (%), 1994-03
                             FY94                FY95     FY96      FY97     FY98 FY99        FY00    FY01   FY02   FY03
Karnataka
Govt. budget allocated for health (%)
                              5.2                 5.8       6.0      5.4      6.0     6.0      5.2     5.1    4.6    4.3
Share of health budget for:
   Primary                   23.5                 26.6     25.4     32.1     32.6     36.1    36.2    35.9    43.3   44.9
   Seconday                  35.4                 32.6     32.1     43.2     43.8     48.5    44.9    42.0    46.7   45.2
   Total Primary and Secondary58.9                59.2     57.5     75.3     76.4     84.6    81.1    77.8    90.0   90.1
Punjab
Govt. budget allocated for health2.9              2.5       3.5      3.2      3.3     3.0      3.3     4.5    4.5    3.8
Share of health budget for:
   Primary                   61.0                 56.9     59.3     54.8     55.7     50.8    49.9    55.9    57.1   61.7
   Seconday                  25.0                 25.0     25.0     23.0     23.9     25.9    28.3    25.1    20.7   19.0
   Total Primary and Secondary86.0                81.9     84.3     77.8     79.6     76.7    78.1    81.1    77.8   80.8
West Bengal
Govt. budget allocated for health                 5.1       5.2      6.0      4.8     5.4      6.2     5.4    5.1    4.0
Share of health budget for:
   Primary                                        31.0     32.0     33.0     34.0     37.8    34.7    29.6    34.8   36.9
   Seconday                                       22.0     23.0     24.0     24.0     26.5    24.2    23.1    23.4   27.4
   Total Primary and Secondary                    53.0     55.0     57.0     58.0     64.4    58.9    52.7    58.2   64.3

Table 9: Annual increase in government health financing for secondary level (Rs. Million)
                 Projected annual increase in
      State                                                Annual increase in health financing for secondary level
                         recurrent cost          FY95     FY96      FY97     FY98 FY99        FY00    FY01   FY02   FY03
Karnataka                     360                    245     309      1005      886     800      -23    315       -1  -296
West Bengal                   250                            289       624       23   1107       341     84     -25    170
Punjab                        150                    -25     266       117      370     147      360   -195     -26   -173
Note: Revenue from user charges were Rs. 145m and Rs. 120m respectively in FY03 in Karnataka and Punjab




                                                        - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
             Component               Appraisal      Revised    Actual/Latest Percentage
                                      Estimate      project      Estimate      of Revised
                                    (US$ million) costs (US$     (US$ m)

Management Development and              26.6          29.7
                                                       m)           28.7          96.7
Institutional Strengthening
Improve Service Quality, Access         308.2         362.6        354.9          97.9
and Effectiveness
Improve Access to Basic Health          24.3          18.9          17.9          94.4
Services
Total Baseline Cost                     359.1         411.2        401.5
    Physical Contingencies              33.6
    Price Contingencies                 24.0
Total Project Costs                     416.7         411.2        401.5
Total Financing Required                416.7         411.2        401.5

2b-1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                    Procurement method                       Total
       Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB        Other (1)       N.B.F.      Cost
1. Works                                              124.6         17.6                     142.2
                                                     (114.1)      (15.3)                    (129.4)
2. Goods                                66.2          59.3          44.0                     169.5
                                       (62.27)       (52.7)       (36.7)                    (151.7)
3. Services                                                         30.9                      30.9
                                                                  (27.0)                     (27.0)
4. Miscellaneous                                                    74.1                      74.1
                                                                  (42.1)                     (42.1)
    Total                               66.2          183.9        166.6                     416.7
                                       (62.3)        (166.8)      (121.1)                   (350.0)
Note: (1) Other methods include NS, LS and others. Figures in parentheses are IDA's financing

2b-2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Revised Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Procurement method                      Total Cost
       Expenditure Category             ICB          NCB         Other (1)       N.B.F.
1. Works                                              172.9         25.7                     198.6
                                                     (152.8)      (14.7)                    (167.5)
2. Goods                                26.2          34.0          51.3                     111.5
                                       (16.9)        (24.5)       (37.2)                     (78.6)
3. Services                                            2.8          21.2                      24.0
                                                      (2.8)       (16.0)                     (18.8)
4. Miscellaneous                                                    77.1                      77.1
                                                                  (51.0)                     (51.0)
    Total                               26.2          209.7        175.3                     411.2
                                       (16.9)        (180.1)      (118.9)                   (315.9)
Note: (1) Other methods include NS, LS and others. Figures in parentheses are IDA's financing

2c. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)




                                                     - 19 -

                                                      Procurement method                       Total
       Expenditure Category                ICB          NCB        Other (1)      N.B.F.        Cost
1. Works                                               171.47        25.52                     197.0
                                                       (152.6)       (14.5)                   (167.1)
2. Goods                                   25.7         33.0          49.7                     108.4
                                          (15.8)       (24.1)        (36.9)                    (76.8)
3. Services                                              2.8         19.96                      22.7
                                                       (2.78)        (15.8)                    (18.6)
4. Miscellaneous                                                      73.4                      73.4
                                                                     (50.2)       168.58       (50.2)
    Total                                  25.7         207.3        168.6                     401.5
                                          (15.8)       (179.5)      (117.4)                   (312.7)
Note: (1) Other methods include NS, LS and others. Figures in parentheses are IDA's financing
(2) The estimate of actual total disbursement of the IDA Credit of US$ 312.7 million equivalent (and its
breakdown in this table) was provided by the Borrower. This amount is somewhat lower than the corresponding
amount in the Bank's Controller System of US$ 314.4 million equivalent.
2d. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

            Component                    Revised Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of Revised
                                      Bank     Govt.     Total     Bank    Govt.     Total     Bank     Govt.   Total
Management Development &               20.2      9.5     29.7      19.8      8.9      28.7      98.1    93.7    96.7
Institutional Strengthening
Improve Service Quality, Access       280.4     82.2     362.6     278.2    76.7     354.9      99.2    93.3    97.9
and Effectiveness
Improve Access to Basic Health         15.3      3.6     18.9      14.6      3.2      17.9      95.6    89.4    94.4
Facilities
Total Costs                           315.9     95.3     411.2     312.7    88.8     401.5      99.0    93.2    97.6




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not calculated




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/03/1994                4    Economist (1); Social Dev.
                                             Specialist (1);Public Health
                                             Specialist (1); Architect
                                             Consultant (1) Procurement
                                             Engineer/Specialist (1)
              02/23/1995                7    Economist (2); Social Dev.
                                             Specialist (1); Public Health
                                             Specialist (2); Architect
                                             Consultant (1) Bio-Medical
                                             Engineer (1) Procurement
                                             Engineer/Specialist (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/09/1995                8    Economist (3); Social Dev.
                                             Specialist (1); Public Health
                                             Specialist (2); Architect (1);
                                             Bio-Medical Engineer (1)
                                             Procurement
                                             Engineer/Specialist (1)


 Supervision

              03/20/1997                9    Sr. Economist (1); Bio-Medical           S               S
                                             Engineer (1); Procurement Spec.
                                             (1); Sociologist (1); Architect (2);
                                             Public Health Spec. (2); Medical
                                             Waste Spec. (1)
              11/19/1997                6    Sr. Economist (1); Health                S               S
                                             Systems Spec (1); Soc.
                                             Development Spec (1); Health
                                             Care Waste Spec (1);
                                             Procurement Spec (1); Architect
                                             (1)
              06/11/1998               11    Senior Economist (1); Social Dev         S               S
                                             Specialist (2); Economist (1);
                                             Health Systems Spec (1); Health
                                             Mgmt Specialist (1); Architect
                                             (2); Procurement Engineer (1);
                                             Public Health Spec (2)
              11/24/1998               10    Sr. Economist (1); Health                S               S
                                             Systems Spec (1); Hosp
                                             Management Spec (1); Soc
                                             Development Spec (1); Public
                                             Health Spec (2); Economist (1);



                                              - 22 -

                 Staff Asst (1); Architect (1);
                 Health Care Waste Spec (1)
02/22/1999    7  Team Leader (1); Hosp Mgmt             S     S
                 Specialist (1); Public Health Spec
                 (1); Economist (1); Procurement
                 Specialist (1); Architect (1); Soc
                 Dev Specialist (1)
06/1/1999     11 Team Leader (1); Publ Health           S     S
                 Specialist (3); Oper Analyst (1);
                 Procurement Specialist (1);
                 Architect (1); Social Dev
                 Specialist (1); Biomedical
                 Engineer (1); Management
                 Specialist (1)
10/27/1999    11 Team Leader (1); Publ Health           S     S
                 Specialist (3); Oper Analyst (1);
                 Procurement Specialist (1);
                 Architect (1); Social Dev
                 Specialist (1); Biomedical
                 Engineer (1); Management
                 Specialist (1)
05/05/2000    8  Team Leader (1); Publ Health           S     S
                 Specialist (4); Procurement
                 Specialist (1); Architect (1); Fin.
                 Management Specialist (1)
10/28/2000    7  Mission Leader (1); Public             HS    S
                 Health Spec. (2); Procurement
                 Spec. (1); Biomedical Engr. (1);
                 Architect (1); Iec Consultant (1);
05/19/2001    9  Mission Leader (1); Sr. Pub.           HS    S
                 Hlth. Splst. (2); Pub.Hlth.Splst
                 (1); Sr. Proc. Specialist (1);
                 Fin.Mgmt Splst. (1); Iec
                 Consultant (1); Biomedical Engr.
                 (1) Ops. Officer (1)
11/02/2001    8  Team Leader (1); Sr. Pub. Hlth         S     S
                 Splst. (1); Pub. Hlth Splst. (1);
                 Ops. Officer (1); Sr.Procurement
                 Splst. (1); Consultant (2);
                 Consultant Architect (1)
05/21/2002    6  Team Leader (1); Sr. Pub. Health       HS    S
                 Splst. (2); Sr. Proc. Splst (1); Sr.
                 Fin. Mgmt. Splst. (1); Consultant
                 Architect (2); Iec Consultant (1)
09/25/2002    5  Mission Leader (1); Sr. Public         HS    HS
                 Health Specialist (1); Sr. Proc.
                 Splst. (1); Consultant (2)
05/21/2003    5  Mission Leader (1); Sr.                S     S
                 Procurement. Specialist. (1); Sr.
                 Financial Management Specialist
                 (1); Consultant (1); Consultant
                 Architect (1)
11/03/2003    4  Mission Leader (1); Lead Impl.         S     S



                 - 23 -

                                            Specialist (1); Operation Officer
                                            (1); Biomedical Engr. (1)



 ICR
               02/25/2004             4     Mission Leader (1); Senior           S    HS
                                            Public Health Specialist (1);
                                            Senior Health Economist
                                            (1); Junior Professional
                                            Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             117                               364
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    55                              147
  Supervision                            328                               923
  ICR                                      26                               47
  Total                                  526                              1481




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
Involvement of NGOs
Intrasectoral coordination




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                       Title                          Prepared by                Date
1  Staff Appraisal Report, India: State Health        World Bank             February 1996
   System Development Project II.
2  Development Credit Agreement, Credit                                      February 1996
   Number 2833 IN
3  Project Agreement, Credit Number 2833                                     February 1996
   IN
4  ICR Mission Report                                 World Bank                 2004
5  Aide-Memoires of the Supervision                   World Bank
   Missions for the State Health System
   Project II, 1998-2004.
6  Mid-Term Review (MTR)/ Supervision                 World Bank                 1999
   Mission Aide-Memoires
7  Government of Karnataka, Mid-Term                                             1999
   Review by World Bank Mission.
8  Government of West Bengal, Mid-Term                                           1999
   Review by World Bank Mission.
9  Government of Punjab, Mid-Term Review                                         1999
   by World Bank Mission.
10 India: Policies to Reduce Poverty and              World Bank            January 31, 2000
   Accelerate Sustainable Development
11 West Bengal: Policy Note (Draft)                   World Bank             February 2004
12 Punjab: Policy Note (Draft)                        World Bank             February 2004
13 Better Health System for Indian's Poor:            World Bank                 2002
   Findings, Analysis, and Options
14 Karnataka State Health System                Government of Karnataka       April 2004
   Development Project: Implementation
   Completion Report
15 West Bengal State Health System             Government of West Bengal      April 2004
   Development Project: Implementation
   Completion Report
16 Punjab State Health System Development        Government of Punjab         April 2004
   Project: Implementation Completion Report
17 Patient Satisfaction Survey: Results and     Government of Karnataka             NA
   Analysis
18 Measuring Quality Indicators and Patient    Government of West Bengal          2003
   Satisfaction
19 Measuring Quality Indicators and Patient    Government of West Bengal      March 2004
   Satisfaction
20 Survey of Patient Satisfaction in Project     Government of Punjab            2002
   and Non-project Hospitals
21 Survey of Patient Satisfaction in Project     Government of Punjab         April 2004
   and Non-project Hospitals
22 Compliance and Status Report: State          Government of Karnataka     November 2003
   Health System Development Project
23 Report on Financial Progress                 Government of Karnataka      October 2003
24 Impact Evaluation of WB HSD                  Indian Institute of Health    April 2004
   Development Project II                        Management Research



                                                 - 27 -

                                                      Jaipur
25 Project Status Report                             World Bank          March 15, 2004
26 Review of Health Care Waste Management            World Bank           May 2004
   Practices in State Health Systems Projects
   in Karnataka, West Bengal and Punjab
27 Many reports on sub-components from states
28 Evaluation of Karnataka Health Systems      Government of Karnataka    June 2004
  Development Project
29  Borrower's comments ­ Punjab Health        Government of Punjab       June 2004
  System Development Component
30 Borrower's comments - West Bengal          Government of West Bengal   June 2004
   Health System Development Project




                                               - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Reports

I. Karnataka

 Implementation Completion Report of KARNATAKA HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                CREDIT NO - 2833 IN

               Details                            Original                          Revised
 Project & DCA Agreement Date                  18th April 1996
Project Commencement Date                         June 1996
Project Period                                     5 Years                          8 Years
Project Closing Date                        30th September 2001                31st March 2004
 Credit Closing Date                          30th March 2002                  30th March 2004

Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA / GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA

Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and quality at Entry

Original Objective:
The broad objectives of the project are: (a) Improvement in the performance and quality of health care services at
the district and sub-district level of the health care system (b) Narrowing the current coverage gaps by facilitating
access to health care delivery and (c) achievement of better efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources
to (i )   improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development and (ii) improve the performance of the health care system through improvements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of the health services at first referral level. The ultimate goal of the project would be to
improve the health status of the people, especially the poor, by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability by
creating linkages between different level of the health sector in the state of Karnataka.

The development objectives of the KHSDP were realistic and consistent with the priority needs in the health sector.
The Government of Karnataka has emphasized on commitment to a policy package of health reform reflecting key
sectoral development issues for the primary and first referal levels of health care by (a) increasing share of health
sector resources to the primary and secondary levels             (b) strengthening the capacity of the Implementing
Agency by setting up a Strategic Planning Cell            (c) Enhancing Public & Private partnership role in health
management (d) Implement a user charge policy.

Project Components:
The initial SDR Credit allocation to the Project of 68.9 million was revised to SDR 78.33 million (US $ 103.43
million equivalent), consisting of three major components (1) Management Development and Institutional
Strengthening (12.% of base cost): (2) Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness at Secondary Level
Hospital ( 76% of base cost) and (3) Improve access and equity to disadvantaged areas (12% of base cost). The
Project financed for renovation and expansion of hospital buildings, medical equipment, vehicles, medicines,
medical lab supplies, MIS/IEC materials, furniture, professional services & consultants, training, workshops,
fellowship, studies conducted, salaries & operating cost and maintenance of building & equipments.

Management Development & Institutional Strengthening: (US $ 14.33 million)
Under this component, Project aimed to improve the institutional framework for policy development, strengthening
management and implementation capacity and development of surveillance capacity for major communicable
diseases. A Strategic Planning Cell was created with Additional Director (SPC) as the head of the cell to address
strategic planning issues in the health sector and provide management with policy options by commissioning
studies and organising sensitisation workshops.

Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness: (US $ 89.29 million)




                                                         - 29 -

Under this component, Project aimed to renovate and extend 200 community, Taluka & District hospitals and to
upgrade their clinical effectiveness. The clinical effectiveness and quality of services for the existing 13,499 beds
would be improved, to 5,191 new beds would be added with improved & updated norms and standards for clinical
and support services, improved referral mechanism and linkages with primary & tertiary level, Staffing norms
would be adopted and a system for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care would be established
through the adoption of a quality assurance program. The capacity of support services would be expanded, and staff
skills in clinical and technical areas would be strengthened through training.

3.   Improve access and equity to disadvantaged areas: (US $ 14.22 million)
 Under this component, Project aimed to improve access to health facilities in remote areas of the state with
improved transport and communication network in geographical and topographical locations, where there are no
major hospitals near to their livelihood. A system of annual health check-up camps was proposed under the Project
for SC/ST population, which account for nearly 20% of the population of Karnataka with improved IEC activities
relating to the dissemination of general public health related issues. Project aims to improve referral mechanism
environment to first referral hospitals with more effective & friendly by well maintained master register and issue
of health check-up cards free of cost to the neediest people.

Achievement of Objective and Outputs:
The achievement of the development objectives of this project is rated as fully satisfactory as most of the targets
have been achived or in some cases exceeded in the areas of policy indicators, access and effectiveness indicators,
activity indicators.

Policy Indicators: As committed the State Government has increased the allocation to the health sector every year
e.g. FY 1995-96 Rs.5,516.86 million (RE) to FY 2003-04 Rs.10,689.81 million (RE), with a maximum allocation
of Rs.11,811.32 M during FY 2001-02, and maintaining more or less proportional increase / share of health sector
around 5.5 to 6% over state budget. The share of primary and secondary level allocation in the health sector has
been maintained around 90% of total allocation to health sector. Increased budget for Drugs & Maintenance has
been maintained over the project period from FY 96-97 Rs.377.24 million to FY 2002-03 Rs.788.32 million (200%
increase). Government has implemented the reforms of contracting out non-clinical services for effective
maintenance. Strategic planning cell has been created and 21 studies were undertaken, and the major
recommendations have been implemented resulting in improvement in efficient & effective usage health resources.
The state government successfully implemented user charges concept and collected more than Rs. 143.26 million
since 1997-98, with an usage autonomy to the hospitals. The government has appointed specialist, doctors,
paramedical staff on contract basis to increase man-power and to reduce the mismatch in hospitals. As a major step
towards reforms in health sector, state government entered into public and private partnership to run a hospital by
entrusting the management of OPEC funded hospital in Raichur to APPOLO management, a Mudigere Hospital
entrusted to Bapuji Memorial Trust and dietary and ambulance services has been entrusted to a local NGO in a
Taluka level hospital at T.Narasipura.

The Task Force on Health was formed under the chairmanship of Chief Minister and several recommendations
have implemented. Improved technical skill of KHSDP enabled implementation of civil works & procurement for
other projects of health department, which resulted in better quality, timeliness and co-ordination between different
wings of health department.

Access and Effectiveness Indicator: All the 204 hospitals undertaken by the project have been upgraded and
recommissioned, including the four hospitals added at MTR. In all bed strength of 3774 has been added taking
total bed strength to 19,206 as against 18,690 projected in SAR. In addition project constructed 19 district
equipment workshop buildings, 21 district laboratory buildings, 27 blood bank building and 30 trauma care
centres. The project has created 5180 medical and para medical posts to strengthen the referral system. On
recruitment of the specialist and paramedical staff on contract basis by the Government, mismatch between
promised facility as per the norms and availability of specialist is drastically reduced during the project period at
referral hospitals. Technical skills have been improved by providing training to 2888 doctors, 4902 paramedical
staff and 4968 in administration and 5205 workshop/seminars/conferences conducted. ISO 9001 /2000 Certificate
received for 6 district hospital for blood bank, maternity services and equipment maintenance and quality


                                                        - 30 -

improvement in other hospitals are underway.

In tune with the objectives, the project was planned, implemented, monitored and supervised and took corrective
actions for optimal utilization of all the health care facilities. The studies and survey carried out by external
agencies regarding utilization of facilities and satisfaction by patients has revealed that the project has significantly
contributed to improving the health status of the communities. The survey highlighted an upward trend depicting
positive attitudes of both the provider and clients in the health care facilities. The project implemented yellow card
scheme wherein camps and free health services were provided to the lower strata of society ­ scheduled caste and
scheduled tribes. The bed occupancy rate leaped to 63% in 2003 from 49% in 1998. Similarly, the admissions rose
to 6,87,577 in 2003 from 5,17,092 in 1998. The lab tests being conducted by technicians rose to 29,20,620 in 2003
from 14,96,842 in 1998. Similarly, radiological investigations carried out in 2003 were 3,83,897, against 2,59,673
in 1998 and the number of ECGs taken in 2003 were 55,813 against 45,004 in 1998.

Project takes pride in placing on record the significant decrease in the Average Length of Stay (ALOS) in the
hospitals from 12 days in 1996 to only 3.5 days during the last year of the project, against the target of 10 days
envisaged earlier.

Output by Component:

1.        Management Development & Institutional Strengthening: (US$ 9.32 million)
(i) Improving the Institutional framework for policy development:
The Government addressed the management development and institutional strengthening, by setting up of a
Strategic Planning Cell (SPC), that undertook 17 studies, that included willingness of people to pay for health care
services, implementation of Yellow Card Scheme. networking of public-private partnership issues etc. SPC also
facilitated the Government in framing guidelines for collection and utilization of user charges. So far, i.e., from
1997 to 2004 the amount of user charges collected is approximately Rs. 14.33 crores and that utilized is Rs. 9.60
crores. With the decentralisation policy, the government entrusted the recruitment of specialist on contract basis to
the DCs (Deputy Commissioner) to fill the gap. The government also formed a Task Force on Health under the
Chairmanship of the Chief Minister and the project supported the Directorate of Health in implementing the
recommendations made by the Task Force. Karnataka State being the pioneer in the implementation of the
Panchayat Raj Institutions, has successfully transferred the ownership and management of hospitals less than 100
beds to Zilla Panchayats and those with bed strength of 100 and above to the State sector. Similarly those attached
to teaching hospitals have been handed over to the Director, Medical Education. In order to simplify
correspondence and procedure at government level, the project created a secretariat wing headed by the Project
Administrator, who also function as ex-officio Special Secretary to Government, H & FW Department. This
enhanced timely issue of government orders / other circulars concerning the project.

(ii) Strengthening management and Implementation Capacity:
The Project has been implemented and managed by Ex-officio Special Secretary as Project Administrator
supported by experienced doctors, engineers, finance & account officers, procurement specialists. Officials have
been trained in their respective discipline through various training institutions, workshops and seminar both at
national and at international level, to build their capacity and equip them to effectively implement the project.
IGNOU programmes in Hospital and Health Administration as well as a Certificate Course in Rural Surgery are
additional HRD efforts to strengthen the service delivery. The Project has established an efficient system to monitor
the quality of services, hospital waste management, disease surveillance, equipment maintenance, financial
progress.. HMIS wing has been formed for updating performance indicators and improve the referral system.
Training on disease surveillance thorough GIS, bio-metric attendance tracking system and computerisation of
hospital data have been given due priority by HMIS. District health committees have formed under the
chairmanship of CEO, Zilla Panchayat for regular monitoring of hospital functions. District and block level
referral committees have established to improve the referral mechanism. A system has been adopted to track the
manpower position and mismatch, and minimise the gap by appointing persons with the required skills on
contract basis.

(iii) Developing surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases:



                                                          - 31 -

District Disease Surveillance Units have been formed with logistic as well as technical support to deal with normal
and emergency situations. The Project has established 19 equipment maintenance workshops with adequate trained
staff to provide services. Regular training and workshops were conducted for the medical and para medical staff.
Geographical Information System (GIS) has been developed by the Project and effectively implemented by
providing required training to the District level officials. The GIS data is being transmitted electronically to HMIS
section at Bangalore for its consolidation and analysis for effective decision-making.

2.       Improving Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness: (US$ 120.32 million)
(i)      Extending / renovating Community, Taluka and District Hospitals:

     Improving Access:
The Project has completed renovation & expansion of all 204 hospitals compared to 200 in the SAR. In addition
the project constructed 19 district equipment workshop buildings, 21 district laboratory buildings, 27 blood bank
buildings and 30 trauma care centres. Periodical quality audit has been conducted by an external agency during the
construction period and defects noticed have been rectified and the recommendations of the quality auditors have
been discussed and implemented. These hospitals and facilities were upgraded by providing latest equipment,
supplies, furniture, drugs and vehicles according to clinical norms. Bed strength has been increased from 15,432 to
19,206 between 1996 to 2004 as compared to SAR target of 18,690.


The Project has constructed staff quarters at all 204 hospital locations, to ensure availability of doctors during
emergency and timely delivery of health services.

IEC activities were addressed more during the last two years of the Project. On completion of the buildings,
adequate staff and equipments have been provided. In order to have greater impact on the IEC activities the
project has procured the required IEC materials such as sign Boards, placards, brochures, etc, and these have been
displayed at all the hospitals and at prominent places. IEC aimed at providing required information to both the
provider and the beneficiary ­ public at large.

Improve Quality:
The Project has created 5180 medical and para medical posts. Specialists have been appointed on contract basis.
Mismatch in the availability of specialists and their actual place of work has been addressed by recruiting more
specialists or by transferring the surplus specialists to needy places. The mismatch situation of the specialist has
been resolved to the maximum.

Dental surgeons, service doctors, specialists & para medical staff have been appointed on contract basis by
empowering Deputy Commissioner of respective districts to constitute selection committee comprising CEO ­ Zilla
Panchayat, District Surgeon, DHO.

 A total of 2888 doctors & 4902 para medical staff have been trained in clinical and managerial aspects during the
project period. A total of 5205 workshops / seminars / conferences were conducted in various disciplines during the
project period and 12,994 doctors & para medical staff have attended. the same. This has facilitated building up
their capacity and to improve their quality of service.

3 rounds of evaluation and independent patient satisfaction survey indicate increased level of satisfaction in
nursing care, cleanliness of the hospital, communication between doctors & patient, drinking water facility,
availability of medicine etc., and efforts are being made to overcome deficiencies observed.

Drug budget of the Government has been increasing over the years reflecting increase in per bed drug budget
allocation from Rs.3,790 in FY 96-97 to Rs.7,166 in FY 2003-04. Similarly maintenance budget has increased
from Rs.3.04 M in FY 96-97 to Rs.55.00 M in FY 2003-04. In addition the hospitals have been authorised to
collect the user fee and autonomy given to utilise these funds for upkeep and maintenance of the hospitals. An
equipment maintenance wing has been established in all 27 districts and necessary infrastructure has been
provided and they are functioning well.



                                                         - 32 -

The improved quality of health services has resulted in obtaining ISO 9002 certification for 6 district hospitals for
blood bank, maternity services and equipment maintenance. Department of H&FW has planned to obtain similar
ISO certification for other hospitals developed under KHSDP.

HMIS and GIS systems have been developed, put to use after providing necessary equipments and training at the
District level. The district level data is transmitted to state level periodically for its consolidation and analysis for
effective decision-making in combating epidemic diseases.

Improving Effectiveness:
Non-clinical services have been outsourced in all the hospitals and the impact is analysed in terms of improved
patient satisfaction, in areas of cleanliness, water supply, lighting, gardening etc.

Ambulances have been supplied to needy hospitals during project period and drivers have been appointed through
contract basis for efficient use. This has increased access to government hospitals and improved service delivery.

Major Medical Equipments like X-ray, Ultra sound scanner, endoscopy, QBC equipment have been procured and
provided to all 204 project hospitals. Technical staff have been appointed on contractual basis and trained for
effective usage of supplied equipments. District Equipment Maintenance (DEM) wing has been established in all
19 districts and necessary equipment has been provided. Vehicle equipped with required tools and kits for carrying
out repairs and service have also been provided to each DEM Wing. Bio-medical engineers have been appointed
and trained to service the equipments. This has resulted in reduced down-time and better usage of the equipments

Referral mechanism has been strengthened by introducing referral and feedback cards, implementing referral
guidelines, incentives for referred patients, improving transport facility and TOT training to medical officers.
Referral system is functioning well, with formation of District level committees and Taluka level Committees with
special emphasis on training and monitoring of the referral activities.          The referral data is being collected
periodically from the hospitals through computerised HMIS system. Effective monitoring through grading of
hospitals is being carried out to ensure better and improved service.

Periodic evaluation of usage of facility provided by the Project, patient satisfaction, training provided to medical &
para-medical staff has been under taken by external agency for periodic improvement in the services.


Waste management mechanism has been adopted in all hospitals by constructing deep burial pit, provided with
waste bins, training on segregation and disposal of waste, in-line with the specified guidelines and ensuring
containment of infections.


Collection of User fee has increased over the years from Rs.3.12 M in FY 97-98 to Rs.44.85 M in FY 03-04, by
exempting the poor people. The user fee concept has increased the level of expectation from the hospitals and has
thus contributed towards improved services.


Ensuring optimal utilization of services at the health care facilities by development of Performance Indicators and
their analysis, thus bringing about regular performance appraisals through grading and follow-up with additional
support has resulted in improved effectiveness.


Improving referral mechanism & linkages with primary & tertiary level:

Project has implemented effective referral mechanism by providing technical support to primary level hospitals like
PHCs / PHUs to CHCs (FRUs) and TLHs in a phased manner with provision of feedback mechanism to the
referring institution. Referral cards have been provided and feedback received is being analysed for improving
service delivery.



                                                          - 33 -

Provision of computers, accessories and computer training to hospital personnel of all health care facilities to
expedite the transmission of information electronically has enabled smooth flow of data for speedy decision
making. Referral hospital also provides food for needy patient and transport facility.


3.        Improve Access to Basic Health Services (US$ 7.18 million)
The Project has conducted health check-up camps primarily for SC/ST population with an objective of providing
health facilities to the economically backward population. Vehicles and drugs facilities have been provided at
facility level and a total of 52,372 camps have been conducted benefiting 7.67 million population. Study by an
independent agency has shown high level of satisfaction and good referral system.
Financial Achievement:
Project is being implemented with the financial assistance of IDA (The World Bank Credit Number 2833 ­ IN)
with March 30th 2004 as Credit Closing date. The Original Project Cost of Rs.5,458.00 Million has been was
revised to Rs. 6,521.50 Million with the approval of State Cabinet and the World Bank on extension of the Project
period by two years.

The Project adopted an efficient financial management system, with a smooth fund flow mechanism and
decentralised accounting system. The computerised accounting system enabled to speedy and accurate compilation
of project expenditure and its effective monitoring apart from timely submission of reimbursement of claims.

As on 31st March 2004, the cumulative Project expenditure stood at Rs.6,245.41 million (95.77% of Project Cost).
Project has submitted all the eligible claims amounting to Rs.4,725.06 million. The World Bank credit to the
Project of SDR 68.9 M was revised to SDR 78.33 M (on reallocation of unallocated credit and on allocating
additional credit of SDR 3.49 M out of savings from West Bengal state. Project has utilized SDR Credit of 77.01
million against the revised allocation of credit of SDR 78.326 million to the State by indicating disbursement rate
at 98.32%. In terms of US Dollars, the Project utlised US $ 103.43 M.

The audit of the Project accounts has been completed upto FY 2002-03 and shortly the audit of accounts for the FY
03-04 will be taken up by the office of the Accountant General.


SUSTAINABILITY:

The Government of Karnataka is fully committed to the reforms and many policy level decisions have been already
addressed thus paving way for sustaining the reforms and innovations started under the project.
i)        Optimum collection of user charges, with the exception of poor people (BPL Patients)
ii)       Autonomy to the Hospitals / facility level for collection and usage of funds
iii)      Decentralisation of hospital / facilities with less than 50 beds to District Zilla Panchayats
iv)       Ensuring the maintenance of the standards at all the health care facilities by strengthening outsourcing of
non-clinical services, with adequate budgetary support;
v)        Ensuring continuation of correct practices in Hospital Waste Management Systems and compliance to
legal issues;
vi)       Sustaining the quality of health care delivery and maintenance of ISO standards all the time, with further
training and feedback workshops;
vii)      Ensuring proper equipment maintenance through timely preventive maintenance plans and immediate
repair of critical equipment.
viii)     Ensuring right staff at the right place through timely appraisals, appointing specialists on contact basis to
reduce mismatch.
ix)       Providing adequate budget provision for drugs;
x)        Exploring and enhancing the scope for private and public partnership;
xi)       Better monitoring of performance of each hospital / facility with timely data analysis using GIS and
HMIS.
xii)      Evaluating the performance with grading and timely action to over come the defects / deficiency in service



                                                           - 34 -

delivery;
xiii)    Ensuring better attendance of hospital staff with attendance tracking system and enforcement of
disciplinary action against erring staff.
xiv)     Ensuring appropriate budgetary allocations and its timely utilization by the hospitals.

Project implementing agency's Evaluation of Bank Team:

The Project Implementing agency rates the Bank team as "Highly Satisfactory" as without their active support to
the Project, it could have been impossible for accomplishing the desired objectives. All the contributions and the
support of the Bank cannot be mentioned here, however significant select areas of direct contribution to the success
of the project are mentioned below:

         Speedy clearances of the designs and drawings by the Bank's architect
         Speedy clearances of bidding documents / procurement plans etc for procurement of goods and
equipments
         Timely clearances of terms of references and issues of clearances for the procurement for services contract
         Periodical mission visits (11 times) to the State for Project review and offered necessary guidance and
suggestions for the various implementation issues,
         Aide memoire ­ setting of challenging benchmarks and its periodical review enabled the Project to
achieve the Project's Development objectives
         Review team had interaction with the Project authorities apart from detailed discussion with the senior
officers of the Government, such as Chief Secretary, Finance Secretary and Principal Secretary ­ Health and
Family welfare, held discussion on the progress as well as on the policy issues during the periodical reviews.
         Procurement & Management problems have been addressed during the Project Reviews
         Field visits to the Hospitals for on-site review of the progress covering all aspects of the Project
implementation;
         Constant consultation by Bank's team with implementing agency, which improved relationship
         Timely admittance of claims and recommendation for release
         Timely Disbursement of funds to Special Account
         Support to Project for reallocation of cost based on field requirement periodically;
         Support to Project with additional allocation of SDR Credit out of savings from West Bengal
         The World Bank mission members have provided necessary timely guidance and clarification on various
issues viz, Procurement, Disbursement;
         The Mission members have also shared their experiences in other countries and states
         Establishing linkages with other health projects in the state such as IPP VIII, IPP IX K, RCH, etc,
         The Bank also conducted a few national level workshops at Hyderabad, Goa, New Delhi and Bangalore
which facilitated the Project in exchanging the views and share the experience with other participants, which
enhanced overall capacity of the implementing agency

In short the close interaction with the Bank Task Manager and Mission members facilitated finding quick solutions
to the problems, educated the Project officials resulted in successful implementation of the project.

Lessons Learnt

1.       The Project envisaged renovation and expansion of hospital building with a survey conducted during
1994-95. Due to time gap between preparation of Project proposal to the actual implementation period, the
condition of the buildings were deteriorated resulting in increase in cost.
2.       Lack of holistic planning at the project preparation stage such as equipment workshop buildings, office
buildings, staff quarters, compound wall, deep burial pits, vehicle garages, glazed tiles, land scaping, solar
lighting and water heaters etc, has escalated the civil works cost and also delayed the process of its approval.
3.       Periodical Technical Audit of civil works quality, has resulted in better quality of construction and defects
have been rectified in-time.
4.       Positioning of technical staff ­ bio-medical engineers has resulted in reduced down-time and effective



                                                         - 35 -

usage of the equipments;
5.       Efficient funds flow mechanism has contributed for the smooth implementation of the Project and reduced
the cost of the Project apart from early completion. To quote an example the tender premium of civil works in the
beginning of the Project were in the range of 20- 25 % over the estimated cost. After noticing the smooth flow of
funds competition developed among the contractors resulting in greater transparency and reduction in the tender
percentage to around 5 % leading to lower Project cost.
6.       The 3 tier organization structure has contributed significantly for the timely decision making and close
monitoring of the Project. With clear delegation of authority the Project and co-ordination of all the departments
(sections) of the Project has facilitated in timely completion of the Project. However, apart from the structure the
individual person's interest also makes a significant impact on the team building, direction and pace of
implementation of the Project.
7.       The commitment of the Government and the political will for the support of the health Project / sector and
the reforms etc, played a vital role in the success of the Project. E,g. in providing adequate budgetary support, in
implementation of users charges, appointment of specialists doctors, providing non-clinical services through
private sector, etc, This is apart from the adequate budgetary support extended by the Government to the Project,
that has contributed for the success of the Project.
8.       The GOK has introduced the Karnataka Transparency in Procurement Act, and Right to Information Act
for establishment of greater transparency and accountability for the use of public money as a governance policy.
The World Bank's procurement procedure has supplemented the Government efforts in good governance and has
resulted in establishment of greater transparency and accountability especially in procurement, accounting,
financial reporting and in auditing of Project expenditure.
9.       As the Project is time bound it puts every one on toes, to accomplish their tasks and accelerates the pace of
implementation, unlike other Government owned Projects. The time schedule for various events like procurement,
making payments, submission of claims, monthly review meetings, timely audit, credit closing date etc, contributes
for speedy decision making and a challenging one to achieve the desired development objectives.
10.      To meet the requirement of the various stakeholders, there was a need to develop a computerised
accounting system. It enabled multiple reporting of the progress and thus enhanced analysis leading to timely and
proper decision making. Normally the Govt. classify the expenditure only under the "State Budget Head" and does
not classify according to expenditure category, Procurement method, component and sub-components,
location-wise etc, Thus facilitating in greater accountability for the Project funds and effective monitoring. The
computerised accounting system enabled timely consolidation of project expenditure and submission of
reimbursement claims;
11.      As the outcome of the Project is constantly monitored, it has facilitated better contract management and
timely completion of works / supplies. Any deviations or slow progress will get focused and corrective actions are
taken.
12.      The Project has contributed significantly for the capacity building of the various staff in many disciplines
such as procurement, financial management, clinical services and administration. Significant portion of the staff
have undergone training both in India and Abroad, as well participated in the workshops, seminars and trainings
and have thus updated their skills and knowledge in their respective fields.
13.      The efficient financial management system enabled early compilation of annual accounts and its audit
thus fulfilling the financial covenants of the DCA and establishment of greater accountability for the use of project
funds.
14.      The Governments move for health reforms has resulted in decentralization of administration and
autonomy to hospitals for collection of user charges and also its use. The collection of users charges / fee has
enhanced the expectation of the beneficiary / public and thus facilitate in improving the quality of
service.
15.      The Project has facilitated improving the quality of service at hospitals resulting in international
recognition - ISO 9001 /2000 for 6 district hospitals and enhance the reputation of the Govt. hospitals, setting a
challenge to the hospital staff to maintain and improve the quality standards in health services delivery.
16.      As a financial discipline the Project has been preparing and submitting the reimbursement claim
applications on a monthly basis. This has ensured better financial management and established greater
accountability and
o        It enabled early disbursement from the World Bank
o        Helped the GoK / State Government ease its finance position



                                                         - 36 -

II. West Bengal

Partner Comments on Implementation Completion Report of West Bengal Health System Development

Project (2833-IN)

A. Project Description

In 1996 Government of India negotiated in International Development Agency (IDA) (World Bank) Credit of
SDRs 92.30 million credit, in various currencies equivalent to US $ 174.23 million, to support the West Bengal
Government in strengthening the Secondary Level public health care institutions in the State, in the form of West
Bengal Health System Development Project (WBHSDP), for a period of 8 years from April 1996 to March 2004.
The Project worked under the direct control of Department of Health & Family Welfare of the State. The financial
pattern of the project costs is IDA Credit US $ 149.00 million and Government share of US $ 25.23 million. An
amount equivalent of SDR 6 million was surrendered.

WBHSDP was approved on 2.2.1996, the Development Credit Agreement signed on 18.4.1996, and the project
launched on 26.6.1996. The effective project closing date, as per Credit agreement, was 31.03.2002 and was
subsequently extended up to 30th March, 2004 in order to facilitate the completion of some software initiatives.

The ultimate goal of the Project was to improve the health status of the people, especially the poor, by reducing
mortality, morbidity and disability.

B. Project Objectives
The Objectives of the Project were to assist the Government of West Bengal to:

i)        Improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development; and
ii)       Improve systems performance of health care through improvements in the quality, effectiveness and
coverage of health services at the secondary level by improving clinical and qualitative effectiveness of second tier
referral hospitals.

C. Components of the Project
The Project had the following three components :

Component I. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening (7% of Base Costs)
1. Improving the Institutional Framework for Policy Development. Sectoral capacity for development of policy
would be strengthened in each state through the creation of a strategic planning cell headed by a person of the rank
of a Joint Secretary who would report directly to the Secretary, DOHFW in each state. The planning cell would
monitor the critical issues in the health sector in the state by commissioning studies, workshops and seminars and
by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities. As noted earlier, some of the issues would include
monitoring the development of the private health sector including private and social insurance, reviewing the
suitability of present regulations relating the quality of private care provision, evaluating the burden of disease and
cost effectiveness of public health interventions and reviewing medical manpower. In addition, the strategic
planning cell in each state would review implementation of cost recovery mechanisms and sectoral resource
allocation patterns. Under this sub-component the project would finance furniture, vehicles, equipment including
computers, local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultants, operational expenses and salaries of
incremental staff on a decreasing basis.

2. Strengthening Management and Implementation Capacity. Project management arrangements in the three
states have several common elements and some differences. Project management arrangements have taken into
account the existing organizational set-up and implementation capacity of DOHFW, the health programs currently
being implemented by Department and the overall set-up of public administration in the state, especially with



                                                          - 37 -

regard to the nature of decentralized administration. The project will be managed and implemented by DOHFW,
which will be strengthened under the project to address increased investment at the primary and secondary levels
of health care under the project.

          Management arrangements in the state would be evaluated from time to time to see whether the
management system is producing the best results. In addition, a review of overall state finances as well as the
financial situation of the health sector would be undertaken, and, if necessary, would form the basis of additional
measures to achieve financial sustainability of the project. At Negotiations, the Government of West Bengal
provided assurances that not later than June 30, 1999 they would carry out, jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed
mid-term review of project progress including management and financial reviews, in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with IDA, and thereafter implement their recommendations.

          Staff strength at the Head Office to undertake increased responsibilities and perform some new functions
would be enhanced. Headquarters staff would be increased to meet the increased workload and reorient the
structure of DOHFW in West Bengal to meet their new challenges. The project would: (i) enhance and extend the
computerized system through the provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (ii) establish
trained and equipped information cells at HQ and district levels; (iii) train all management staff in appropriate
record keeping; and (iv) introduce a completely revised medical record system for in-patients and diagnostic
services. Under this sub-component the project would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture,
other equipment including computers, vehicles, other supplies, MIS/IEC materials, studies, workshops, local
training, fellowships and operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a decreasing basis.

3. Developing Surveillance Capacity for Major Communicable Diseases. The surveillance system for major
communicable diseases proposed under the project would cover the identification of cases through education of
health workers and community involvement; indexing of cases or isolation of cases and treatment; and tracing of
contacts for monitoring and evaluation. In the long-terms, however, the surveillance system would need to be
expanded to include preventive examination among those most likely to be infected and carrying out
immunization; and an enhanced response capability in case of outbreak or epidemic. This project would fill some
of the gaps in the national disease programs by linking the three elements noted above and providing treatment at
the primary and secondary levels.

          Explicit criteria for monitoring these communicable diseases would be set to avoid any ambiguity in
reporting by different agencies. Emphasis has been put on a community-based system for early detection and
reporting and the full participation of local level institutions working at the village or community will be necessary
to make the system more effective. For example in West Bengal, stamp printed red cards would be introduced for
quick transmission of information on communicable diseases, and would contain information such as name, age,
sex, address, date of onset, immunization status, date of death (if any) of every patient with or died from a specific
communicable disease. The red card would be used in out-patient departments and entry points of in-patient cases
in all health and medical units of the state. As soon as a case is detected the card will be filled out and posted to the
district epidemiological cell which would be provided with the facility under the project to sort, analyze and report
such incidences to the appropriate authority for quick follow up action. The implementation of the health
management information system (HMIS) will improve tracing of contacts as well as provide information on other
diseases that are slated to be included under HMIS activities.

Component       II.  Improving      Service   Quality     and    Effectiveness   at   District,   Sub-Divisional    and
Community/Rural Hospitals (86% of Base Costs)
1. Renovating/Extending District, Subdivisional and community/Rural Hospitals. In West Bengal, 15 district,
60 sub divisional & state general and 95 rural hospitals would be renovated/extended. There would not be any new
hospitals built under the project. The project would create supporting infrastructure for the overcrowded facilities
to adequately accommodate the 20,208 beds that are already operating but at a low level.

2. Upgrading the Effectiveness of Clinical and Support Services and Quality of Services at District,
Subdivisional and Community/Rural Hospitals. Streamlined norms and standards for clinical and support




                                                          - 38 -

services would be applied at the first referral hospitals. Staffing norms conforming to services provided at each type
of facility would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care would be
established through the adoption of a quality assurance program and the capacity of support services would be
expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas would be enhanced through the provision of training to
improve the quality and range of services. Management training for professional cadres and on-going in-service
training for clinical and technical cadres would also be strengthened.

         At the first referral level, the focus of improving management effectiveness would be on strengthening
service delivery. The first referral level would be able to better manage its resources, deliver clinical services
effectively, and hospitals will be able to play a more important role within the district health system. DOHFW in
West Bengal would have greater freedom of action with regard to recruitment of staff and revenue raising;
establish clarity of goals, objectives and procedures; create opportunities for contracting out services, especially
support services; improve medical record-keeping, health management information systems (HMIS) and related
evaluation and monitoring capacities; provide management services by enhancing the capacity for equipment
maintenance and training.

         There is currently no acute shortage of professional staff overall, but there is a shortage of some medical
specialities and nurses. The first step would be to improve recruitment and prompt filling of job vacancies by
improving recruitment procedures.

         Due to the scope of civil works component and the ensure adequate maintenance of assets as a result,
DOHFW in West Bengal would be strengthened by providing them with enhanced management and supervision
responsibilities of essential operational activities, including construction and maintenance activities, in
collaboration with local Government. An Engineering Wing in the implementing agency in each state would be set
up at the state and district levels, adequate funds would be provided and the flow of these funds would be
channeled through the implementing agency.

3. Improving Referral System. The referral system in West Bengal, as in the rest of India, does not function well
(see Annex 8). Patients perceive the lower level facilities as providing lower quality of services. As a result, the
lower tiers are underutilized since patients directly proceed to higher level hospitals for minor illnesses, thereby
overloading the higher level institutions. The beneficiary assessment study in West Bengal found that about 2% of
the patients at first referral facilities were referred from PHCs. It is estimated that a third of all cases which are
currently treated at tertiary facilities could treated, and at lower costs, at first referral facilities if those facilities
received adequate inputs.

         2.32 The referral system would also be strengthened by establishing an incentive system with
differentiated user fees for users and non-users and allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry a
referral slip. Under this sub-component the project would finance vehicles (purchase, hire and maintenance), other
supplied, MIS and IEC materials, local training, consultants, fellowships, workshops and operational expenses.

Component III. Improving Access to Primary Health Care in Remote and under development areas (7% of
Base Costs)
1. Up grading of Primary Health Centers in the Sunderban Area of West Bengal. The Sunderban area in
southern West Bengal, with a population of about 3.1 million people is among the poorest in the state with a
predominance of small and marginal farmers ­ 40% of the population belong to SC/STs. The 54 islands,
interspersed with bodies of water, are covered with forests and swamps. Transport and communication networks
are inadequate in this hostile geographical and topographical location. Metalled roads comprise about 10% of the
total road surface area. There are no major hospitals in the region and travel time is at least eight hours from the
closest point by public transport of Kolkata and its overcrowded health facilities. The remoteness of the region, the
lack of transport, the poverty of the people and lack of access to health facilities have contributed to the health
problems of the people in the Sundarban Areas. It is, therefore, proposed that the project would upgrade all the 28
PHCs and 8 block PHCs in the Sunderban area. In addition, three floating medical units will be set up to deliver
effective health care in the riverine areas and would be supported by wireless connection. A wireless




                                                          - 39 -

communication system will also link up the 36 PHCs and block PHCs with the gram panchayat office. Under this
subcomponent, the project will finance civil works, professional services, furniture, riverine vehicles, medical and
other equipment, medical laboratory supplies, medicines, other supplies, MIS/IEC materials, local training,
studies, workshops and operational expenses.

D. Achievement of objective and outputs
The development objectives of this project are rated as highly satisfactory. It exceeded many of the targets and has
achieved or exceeded its development objectives in the areas of policy initiatives and quality, access and
effectiveness indicators. Major contributions include: (a) substantial strengthening of institutional capacity at the
first referral level; (b) establishment of effective institutional mechanisms in the public health sector beyond the
first referral level, particularly in the areas of better management practices, drug procurement policy, performance
monitoring and service norms in the health sector as a whole; (c) increased allocation of resources for the health
sector, increased share of resources to the primary and secondary levels of health, and larger resources for drugs
and other non-salary recurrent expenditures; (d) enhanced user charges for secondary level facilities; and (e)
effective contracting out of support services in all 214 Project hospitals.

In addition to strengthening the institutions and their planning capacity, including district level coordination and
management capacity, expanded access to health services and compliance to referral norms has far exceeded SAR
targets. Some of the key areas which have shown remarkable improvement are as follows:

               Sl. No.                          Key Indicator                         Pre Project    Post Project
                  1       Beneficiaries below poverty line                                65%            85%
                  2      Bed turn over rate/month (District Hospital)                     4.64           6.74
                  3      Bed turn over rate/month (Rural Hospital)                        6.19           9.08
                  4      Bed occupancy rate (for District Hospital)                       81.2           90.1
                  5      Bed occupancy rate (for Rural Hospital)                          47.9           82.3
                  6      Average length of stay                                         4.2 days       3.7 days
                  7      Patients availing imaging and electro medical (average of       2.03%          3.38%
                         DH, SD/SG and RH)
                  8      Patients receiving lab. tests (average of DH, SD/SG and         6.56%         10.13%
                         RH)
                  9      Infant mortality rate per 1000 L.B.                               55            48.7
                 10      Under 5 mortality rate per 1000                                  99.3           67.6
                 11      Neonatal mortality rate per 1000 L.B.                             36            31.9
                 12      Total fertility rate                                              2.6            2.4
                 13      Life expectancy at birth (average for M & F)                     65.9           67.7
                 14       Female literacy rate                                            46.6           60.2

E. Achievements
Improving Access and effectiveness
·         A government office with delegated powers, functioning like a corporate body.
·         Decentralised institutions enjoying administrative and financial autonomy.
·         Ensuring community participation in health programmes and hospital management.
·         Capacity building of service providers, managers, community and policy makers through skill
development programmes, empowerment.
·         Bed strength has increased from 20,200 to 22,800.
·         Women comprise 46% of IPD/OPD patients illiterate 50% of IPD/OPD of in-patients and 39%
outpatients; and children below 14 years comprise 11% of both in-patients and outpatients.
·         Hospital based IEC activities have been implemented on drug use, safe injection practices, waste
management, equipment safety, referral chin, user charges, health and hygiene messages etc. IEC in hospitals and
IEC strategy implemented for HCPs and general public.
·         Delegation of financial powers to District Health and Family Welfare Samiti and Chief Medical Officer of



                                                           - 40 -

Health.
·        All the Sub-Divisional and State General hospitals having more than 100 beds brought under HMIS
Phase-I. All the District hospitals, Medical Colleges, Speciality hospitals covered under HMIS Phase-I and HMIS
Phase-II.
·        Integrated on-line HMIS by connecting Swasthya Bhavan through a new web portal www.wbhealth.gov.in
with hospital upto BPHC level introduced as pilot for on-line data communication.
·        Introduction of day pay clinics in the SD/SG and District hospitals have been very effective source of
motivation for Medical Officers.
·        A study on rational use of drug introduced as a long term effective measure.
·        Consultancy for undertaking a study on Impact Evaluation of the project done for long term lessons and
replication as a learning process in future project.
·        Referral loop introduced on a pilot basis.
·        Out-sourcing through private partnership of facilities and services viz. security & cleaning, diet,
ambulance, transport, generator O & M, laundry, equipment maintenance, diagnostic facilities etc.
·        A successful venture undertaken for running of mobile health clinic in partnership with NGO. The
government has decided to sustain this programme and to replicate in teagardens and tribal areas.
·        User charges were introduced and rationalized.
·        Private Public Participation was introduced and NGO were used to run the MHCS in Sunderban.

Improving Quality
·        A total of 2915 medical, nursing and paramedical staff has been regularly recruited since the project start.
Gaps at higher positions were filled through promotions and contractual appointments. The skill mismatch
situation of the specialist doctors at more than 90% of the project facilities has largely been resolved.
·        1,555 doctors and 7,581 nurses have been trained in clinical skills and 4,218 trained for hospital
management.
·        Although not an explicit component of the project, health care waste management is being instituted as an
integral part of hospital upgradation. It is being implemented in all the facilities of District, Area and Community
Health Centres. About 10,614 staff has been trained in health care waste management practices.
·        3306 health personnel trained in IT general.
·        Training facilities created in existing training institutions(tertiary hospitals) for hands-on training of
HCPs on equipment.
·        Personnel Information Systems for HCPs developed.
·        To provide better quality care to the poor and disadvantaged groups, Quality assurance groups have been
constituted at all the District and Area Hospitals in the four specialties namely Obstetrics & Gynecology,
Peadiatrics, General Medicine and General Surgery.
·        Indicators for measuring quality have been developed this Ext. Quality Assurance and 4 cycles completed
and are being used to rank the project hospitals.
·        50% increase in major surgeries, 90% increase in radiology and 98% increase in laboratory tests.
·        Standard Treatment guidelines and Essential Drug List introduced.
·        User charges introduced in all secondary level hospitals. Plans for retention of user charges at facility level
being chalked out.
·        On-line integration of Swasthya Bhawan with all the District Head Quarters.
·        On-line integration of Central Medical Stores with all the Drug Reserve Stores located in District Head
Quarters for on-line Drug and Inventory Management Control.

F. Improving Institutional Linkage
The State level steering committee and newly formed Strategic Planning and Sector Reforms Cell is continuously
monitoring policy issues and coordination activities of the other project in the department. The government has
formulated health sector strategy 2004-2013, priority and broad objectives of which are as follows:

Priority of strategic planning
1.       Reducing neonatal and maternal mortality
2.       Strengthening and developing the HMIS



                                                          - 41 -

3.       Exploring opportunity for strengthening decentralization and public-private partnership
4.       Reviewing and restructuring HRD systems
5.       Reviewing budgets, patterns of fund flow and financial systems
6.       Strengthening and broadening the strategic planning process.

Four overall objectives:
1.       To improve the accessibility of poor and unreached groups to curative, preventive, promotive and
rehabilitative health services
2.       To reduce maternal and child mortality, and the burden of communicable, non-communicable and
nutrition related diseases and disorders.
3.       To ensure quality at all levels of health and medical care services
4.       To maintain excellence in education and research in medicine and all allied professions (including
management).

G. Sustainability
A high priority is given to the health sector in the latest health policy developed by the state government, which
aims at maximizing the synergies between different lending and non-lending activities across a wide range of
economic activities and through partnership with other donor agencies to strengthen impact. In addition, the
on-going Primary Health Component of the West Bengal Economic Restructuring Project will continue with some
follow-on activities and support inputs initiated under this project. (b) Institutional arrangements are firmly in
place and will ensure the sustainability of project benefits realized to date. The health management information
system, including a hospital grading system set up under the project, are the first of its kind in the public health
sector in India. The performance monitoring system is utilized by project management to make strategic decisions
on effective use of resources as well as for routine implementation issues. Performance ratings are discussed
regularly with staff. This has led to a healthy competition among hospitals to improve quality of services. A
geographic information system (GIS) was developed under the project and is used by management to monitor
activities. Independent validation of data has been institutionalized through regular evaluations. Quality Assurance
Groups have been established at District and SD/SG Hospitals in order to provide better quality care to the poor
and disadvantaged groups. The government continues to address the issue of manpower and staffing where
vacancies and inappropriate skill mix exist. The enhancement of clinical skills of medical staff, and the
improvement in the functioning of equipment have a positive effect in the operations of these facilities and have
added to their credibility; and (c) Financial resources for the health sector have been substantially enhanced during
the past six years. The Government has stated that these trends will continue and resources for assets created under
the project will be maintained. User charges are being collected in project hospitals. As facilities have been
upgraded, collection of user fees has increased substantially, and is expected to increase further. Contracting out of
support services in the 214 upgraded facilities has reduced costs and has markedly increased efficiency as well as
patient satisfaction. Public Private Partnership is firmly in place with the contracting out of diagnostic services to
private agencies in rural hospitals. Revenue collection is being done through statutory usage of Waste Autoclave by
nursing homes etc. which will ensure maintenance of the equipment and revenue growth of the government.

H. Transition arrangement to regular operations
The prospects for continued institutional and policy reforms initiated under the project at the first referral level in
the health sector are very positive. The major challenges now are; (a) addressing overall staffing issues,
particularly at the Community Hospital level; (b) addressing overall skill-mix at all facilities; (c) ensuring that
management capacity of WBHSDP is not overstretched by adding a large number of additional facilities without
providing sufficient technical and managerial staff; and (d) enhancing integration with the primary level and with
the ongoing national health programs.

I. LESSONS LEARNT
1.       The LOC system of fund disbursement has immensely contributed to the speedy disbursal of funds that
has, in turn, provided the impetus to the progress of the project. It helped tremendously in steady flow of funds
from the PMC to the nodal engineers and consultants.

2.       Awareness and motivation of users and stakeholders for scientific waste management should have been


                                                         - 42 -

initiated earlier.

3.       The involvement of Bio-Medical Engineer, practicing professionals and actual users is essential during
preparation of technical specification.

4.       Compliance with technical specifications as envisaged in bidding document can't be ensured during
bidding stage itself.

5.       Service of Bio medical engineers should be utilized in inspection team to ensure compliance with
specification during manufacturing. He shall also over-view the erection, testing and commissioning of
equipments, supervision of maintenance etc.

6.       It was also observed that payment schedule is not linked with installation and commissioning or if linked,
percentage is so marginal that the supplier after supply shows less interest in installation and commissioning.

7.       Various reasons, such as non-involvement of the prospective users, non-availability of properly trained
personnel, doctors etc. led to un-utilization or under-utilization of some of the equipment in different hospitals.

8.       Equipment needing AMC should be identified at the procurement stage itself. A cushion for ensuring
after-warranty maintenance has to be kept.

9.       Perceived need must match the actual procurements.

10.      The stakeholders and users should have been more involved during the preparation of designs and
drawings to cater to local needs and problems.

11.      Consultants should have discussed with PMC on soil report before finalizing foundation design.

12.      Pre-bid meetings with probable bidders before acceptance of tender could facilitate a better transparency
and specifications.

III. Punjab
                               BORROWER'S COMMENTS: PUNJAB COMPONENT

         Hospital services at secondary level play a vital and complimentary role to the tertiary and primary health
care systems and together form a comprehensive district based health care system. It was noticed that in the state of
Punjab, District Hospitals, Sub-Divisional Hospitals and Community Health Centres were having critical gaps in
buildings, equipment, manpower, and skills and were unable to provide required basic health care services. With
an objective to improve efficiency and quality of the health care provided at first referral level hospitals, the State
Govt. took an initiative to prepare a proposal for seeking aid from the World Bank. On the request of the State
Govt., the Bank team visited the State in March-95 to review preparation and pre-appraisal of the proposal for the
Health Systems Development Project-II.

         On March 21st, 1996, the International Development Association (IDA) approved credit of SDR 235.5
million (M) (US$ 350 M equivalent) under the multi-states Health Systems Development Project for
implementation in the States of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal. The Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreements were signed on April 18, 1996 on behalf of the Govt. of India and respective states. The credit
became effective on June 27th, 1996 covering the expenditure relating to project preparation activities after 1st
May, 1995 under retroactive financing.

Project Cost & Allocation:           The project cost in Punjab was estimated at about US$ 106.1 M involving IDA
finance about US$ 89.7 M and Govt. of Punjab US$ 16.4 M. Out of the total credit the base line allocation for the
Punjab was XDR 55.60 M (US$ 89.7                M equivalent). SDR 60.40 M (US$ 79.91 M equivalent) including
unallocated share and revised to the tune of SDR 61.07 (US$ 81.14 M).



                                                         - 43 -

Project Approach & Objectives:                The project approach was an investment operation with substantial policy
contents and addressing priority issues to help the State to put in place the sustainable first referral health system to
support rest of the health sectors. The main objectives were to; (i) Improve efficiency in the allocation and use of
health resources through policy and institutional development; and (ii) Improve the performance of the health care
system through improvements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first referral level
and selective coverage at the primary level to better serve the neediest sections of society. The achievements of
objectives were to be evaluated on the basis of timely implementation of Health Sector Development Programme
(HSDP).

Achievements of Project Development Objectives:-

i)        DO1: Policy Indicators: (a) Overall %age of the total Govt. expenditure on health sector increased from
3.54% in FY 94-95 to 4.27% in FY 03-04 (BE). In absolute term the allocations have increased from Rs. 2057 M
in FY 94-95 to Rs. 7117.20 M in FY 03-04 (BE) against the projected level of Rs. 2956 M. The per capita
expenditure on Health at current price has increased from Rs.101 in FY 94-95 to Rs.292 in FY 03-04. The
proportion of health budget spent on primary and secondary level is 86.34% in the FY 03-04. A relatively higher
share to the secondary and primary has shown the commitment of State Govt. towards the health care of the poor
people. (b) The State Govt. has made adequate provisions under the project operating plan and also allowed the
PHSC to utilize a Bridge Loan credit limit of Rs. 350 M from the commercial bank in order to accelerate project
implementation activities which clearly indicates the Govt.'s commitments for timely release of funds to the PHSC.
(c) Adequate budgetary allocations for drugs and essential supplies were made on the existing pattern. In addition
to this, the State Govt. provided Rs. 53.7 M during the FY 02-03 under Non Plan side for supporting sanitation
contracts and buildings maintenance services, which was totally not provided by the State Govt. before the start of
the project. Lessons Learnt: Higher involvement of State Finance Department (Nodal Department for Budgeting)
and Department of Health & Family Welfare in analysis of HSE is essential. (d) Policy as regard to
implementation of user charges was placed right from the very beginning. User Charges collections has increased
sharply from Rs. 4 M in FY 96-97 to Rs. 125.37 M in FY 03-04. This increase has been established by introducing
better collection method and increase in the services offered. Retained user charges are being utilized on defined
priorities of essential drugs (45%), patient's facilities (25%), equipment maintenance (15%) and building
maintenance (15%).

DO 2: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators:- In the year 1996 & 1998, the State Govt. recruited 279 &
785 doctors. It is being ensured that core team of specialists is being made available in every hospital. 100%
equipment as per the norms has been positioned in all the newly commissioned hospitals. Preventive maintenance
of the vital equipment is being undertaken through AMCs. Availability of the drugs is being now monitored on
monthly basis as a part of the hospital grading exercise. The State Govt. has continued providing the supplies of
the medicines in hospitals. Support services i.e. ambulance maintenance services at 62 hospitals, sanitation
services at 58 hospitals and general maintenance services in all the 154 hospitals has been contracted out as a time
gap arrangement waste disposal activities were also contracted out in all the 154 hospitals. 23396 trainings for the
different categories were organized as against targeted number of 10000. Comprehensive referral system has been
established by introducing procedures at the primary level, through Out Reach Camps held in the rural and
far-flung areas and by providing incentives for the referred cases at the higher level institutions. A set of core
indicators are being used to grade all the 154 hospitals. External lab. quality assurance programme has been
introduced. Regular patient's satisfaction surveys are being carried through external agencies.

DO 3: Hospital Activity and Efficiency Indicators:- Computerized HMIS systems is in position and regular data
of the hospital activity and efficiency indicators is collected and analyzed. Revalidation of the data through external
agency is being got done to ensure the reliability and proper recording. There is 111.9% and 65.43% increase in
the number of out patients & in patients respectively in the year 2003 from year 1996. Likewise, there is increase
in the BOR from 43.07% in the year 1996 to 49.30% in the year 2003. Average Length of Stay (AVLS) is 3.43 in
the year 2003 as compared to 4.05 in the year 1996 and Bed Turnover Rate (BTR) is 52.48 as compared to 38.84 in
the year 1996. For the efficiency indicators, the number of surgeries has increased 473.56% in the year 2003 as



                                                           - 44 -

compared to year 1996 (i.e. from 39996 to 229403). No. of deliveries has increased 50% in the year 2003 as
compared to year 1996 (i.e. from 18026 to 27001). No. of X-rays, No. of Lab. tests and Diagnostic tests has
increased from 101037, 278092, and, 301836 in the year 1996 to 462002, 3008639 and 3559937 in the year 2003.


PROJECT CONTENT

I.       The Reform Programme:-          As per the commitment given to a policy package of health sector reform
reflecting key sectoral development issues for health care through letter of Health Sector Development Programme.
Details of the reform programmes carried are as under;

i)       Increase Financing and Improve Resource Allocation for Health Sector by: (a) Increasing overall size
of the health budget, (b) Incremental funds for primary and secondary care and (c) Safeguard the operations and
maintenance budget -- Issues stands elaborated above in Para "Achievement of Project Development Objectives
DO1 ­ Policy Indicators".

ii)      Strengthen the capacity of Implementing Agency in Sector Analysis and Management: Setting up of
Strategic Planning Cell. A Strategic Planning Cell is functioning under the overall supervision of the MD PHSC
cum Secretary Health. Several studies/activities were undertaken which include (i) Equipment Status and
Requirement; (ii) Training need Assessment; (iii) Size of Private Health Care and Infrastructure in the State; (iv)
Burden of Disease; (v) Preparation of Draft Nursing Home Registration Act; (vi) Manpower Study comprising of
analysis of staffing position and requirements; (vii) Analysis on utilization of hospital services and financial
analysis on exemptions; (viii) Assessment of drugs availability in the hospitals; (ix) Rational usage of drugs; (x)
Mapping pattern of major communicable diseases (GIS); (xi) A draft policy on public private partnership; (xii)
Prescribing practices; (xiii) Study on Health Care Waste Management; (xiv) Continuous patient's satisfaction
surveys; (xv) Study on Female Foeticide; (xvi) Maternal Death Audit; (xvii) Evaluation of training programmes;
(xviii) External validation of HMIS data; (xix) Preparation and analysis of monthly, six monthly and yearly
hospital efficiency report; (xx) Implementation of IEC strategy; (xxi) Community perception on utilization of
health care services in PHSC versus Private; (xxii) Health Insurance Scheme; (xxii) Documentation of processes;
and (xxiii) Revamping /Restructuring of Primary Health Care. Setting up of Engineering Wing. A full-fledged
Engineering Wing was created for implementation of the project activities. Lessons Learnt: There is a need for
enhancing the State Government's ownership of reform programmes.

iii)     Enhance the role of Private and Voluntary Sectors in Delivery and Management of Health Services:
A study regarding private practitioners in Punjab was done. Draft Nursing Home Registration Act was prepared
and sent to Punjab Govt. for enactment. A draft policy for public private partnership was prepared. Initiatives have
been taken for involving private sector service providers for operation and maintenance of one of the District level
Hospital at Amritsar. Contracting out of Selected Services. Sanitation services in 58 hospitals, Ambulance
Operation services in 62 hospitals, Canteen, Cycle Stand, STD operation services in all 42 hospitals, Hospital
Waste Management services in 154 hospitals (as time gap arrangements), Maintenance Services such as electrical
and plumbering in all the 154 hospitals have been contracted out to the private providers. Planning and production
in IEC activities were outsourced to private professional agency. Various voluntary organizations were involved for
conducting studies for IEC activities. NGOs from Canada & U.K. were also involved in providing specialized
surgical services. Effective steps have been taken for getting information regarding disease surveillance from
private sector providers through Indian Medical Association (IMA). Lessons Learnt: (i) Outsourcing
arrangements are cost effective and can help in a big way for bringing improvements in the delivery of the services.
(ii) There is a further need for engagement of private sector for delivery of health services to improve health
outcomes. Enhancement in the capacity to monitor the private sector (when it is engaged to provide health
services) is required at Govt. level.

iv)      Implementation of User Charges Policy: The regulations by adopting the rates fixed in the year 1991
were framed and implemented to levy charges for various hospitals services which include purchee fee, paying
beds, diagnostic and drugs for in and out patients. Yellow cardholders (BPL) have been exempted from user
charges. Hospital incharge has been authorized to use discretion to provide free treatment to any deserving patient



                                                        - 45 -

(fulfilling the criteria), who do not possess yellow card. Requisite guidelines for collection, retention and utilization
of retained revenues have been issued. Income slabs have been removed to avoid discretion and leakages. Concept
of central collection has been introduced and in 50 hospitals computerized billing is being done. Auditing concepts
have been made more meticulous. All these measures supported by increase in the hospital utilization indices and
improvement in the quality of medical services offered has led to remarkable increase in collection of user charges.
User charges collections have increased enormously from Rs. 4.08 M in FY 97, Rs. 12.03 M in FY 98, Rs. 19.92 M
in FY 99, Rs. 27.38 M in FY 00, Rs. 43.54 M in FY 01, Rs. 76.14 M in FY 02, Rs. 104.70 M in FY 03 and Rs.
125.37 M in FY 04. The retained revenues are utilized for purchase of drugs (45%), improvement of patient's
facilities (25%), building maintenance (15%) and equipment maintenance (15%). Lessons Learnt: (i) Retained
Revenue plays a significant role in bringing autonomy and sustainability in the Health Care delivery and also a
sense of belongingness in collection. (ii) Method and procedures for collection of user charges are much more vital
than the rates.

v)        Tackling of Gender Issues:          Intensive IEC activities have been carried out to promote the cause of
the girl child and improve the sex ratio. The details are; Print Media: Posters/Hand Bills, Booklets, Stickers were
disseminated for bringing awareness of PNDT Act. Separate advertisements were inserted in the leading
newspapers to address different target groups i.e. Community, Parents, Doctors, Law-Enforcers and Journalists.
Electronic Media: Special jingle and TV spots were coined on AIR and leading channels on prime times against
the practices of female foeticide. Folk Media: Songs and dramas shows were organized at block levels to highlight
the repercussion of declining sex-ratio. Out Door Publicity: Hoardings/Wall Paintings, Bus Boards, Exhibitions
have been got painted/organized to promote the cause of girl child. Other Activities: Workshops, Seminars were
organized by involving women groups in the villages known as Istri Sehat Sabha (ISS). A study to know the
psyche of women who had undergone sex determination test leading to female foeticide was undertaken with a help
of ISS members. Exclusive Girl Child Competitions were organized. Legal actions were taken against unregistered
centres. Lessons Learnt: Continuity and sustainability of the campaign is necessary to give dent on the social
issues relating to mind set. Impact: In a recent study conducted by DoHFW (period from Nov.-03 to Jan-04) has
shown that now sex ratio involving age group 0-6 years has improved to 894, from a level 793 previously recorded.


II.       Project Investments:-       Financing has been made under the two components i.e. (i) Management
Development and Institutional Strengthening; and (ii) Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District,
Subdivisional and Community/Rural Hospitals.

Component 1. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening:

(a)       Improving the Institutional Framework for Policy Development:- Activities as regard to strengthening
of Sectoral Capacity through creation of Strategic Planning Cell has already been elaborated above in Para ­
"Strengthen the capacity of implementing Agency in Sector Analysis and Management".

(b)       Strengthening Management and Implementation Capacity:- The PHSC was incorporated on October
20, 1995 to establish, expand, improve and administer medical care at secondary level of health care services. The
project activities were undertaken by the PHSC and the State Govt. has ensured that PHSC should function as an
autonomous body to bring more administrative and financial flexibility in implementation of project activities. Due
to these advantages, PHSC has been able to attract qualified technical staff in the areas of civil works, financial
management, taxation & law, system management, economics, equipment & transport management, procurement,
quality assurance, training. In order to ensure the focus approach for management of secondary level health care
services, additional programme officers in the field of Quality Assurance, HMIS, Waste Management,
Surveillance, Referral, Training, IEC, Hospital Services, Blood Bank have been positioned at H.Q. level and also
separate offices were set-up for Deputy Medical Commissioners (DMC). Apart from this, in order to enhance the
data collection and analysis capabilities, the office of DMCs have been strengthened by providing manpower in the
field of accounts and HMIS which support the hospitals in proper recordkeeping and monitoring. In 50 hospitals
and 17 districts H.Q.s, capacity has been developed for computerized recordkeeping, which cover records of HMIS,
Accounts, OPD/IPD, Blood Banks, and Diagnostic Services. For this purpose, the concerned staff has been trained



                                                         - 46 -

and computer operators have been provided. In-house capabilities have been developed for commercially
negotiating with the private partners for outsourcing. Slowly this capacity is being decentralized for effective
implementation. Two full-fledged training centres have been established under the project to provide in-house
training to the doctors and paramedics. Lessons Learnt: (i) A corporate approach to the project management is key
for achieving project objectives and expected outputs. (ii) Executive mandate and strong political commitment to
such set up can do wonders. (iii) Corporate approach has an edge in outsourcing the clinical & support services.

(c)      Developing Surveillance Capacity for Major Communicable Diseases:- 22 communicable and 12
non-communicable diseases prevalent were identified. In order to strengthen identification of diseases; (i) TOT
trainings were got done from NICD, New Delhi. (ii) 7460 paramedic's staff in all the Blocks in all the districts has
been trained. (iii) 17 special disease surveillance vehicles one for each district has been provided. (iv) Awareness
campaigns for community have been initiated through special IEC component. For indexing of the cases or
isolation of cases and treatment, following steps have been taken; (i) Rapid Response Team headed by Nodal
Coordinator (Epidemiologist/DHO/DIO) have been constituted in all the districts. (ii) Air Conditioning, Isolation
Rooms/Wards have been identified in all the district hospitals equipped to tackle emergencies. (iii) Hospitals have
been authorized to purchase required medicines in case of outbreaks (out of user charges to be recouped by H.Q.).
For tracing of contacts for monitoring and evaluation (i) MDRR a standard format for data collection developed
and distributed to all health institutions. (ii) Data is critically analyzed to find: Disease Burden, Trends, Special
Trends, Prevalence, Epidemic and reports are prepared with Charts, Graphs & Mapping on GIS. (iii) Feed back is
given for corrective measures to reduce incidence of disease. For integrating the programme, secondary level data
is being transmitted to Directorate. Necessary infrastructure at Directorate level has been upgraded under the
project. Lessons Learnt: To make more effective programme as regard to early detection of diseases, higher
involvement of private sector is necessary. Private sector reporting is inconsistent and inadequate at primary
secondary and tertiary level. Major causes for epidemic are due to water borne diseases. Higher involvement of
other department not in the purview of health sector like; Public Health Department, Pollution Control can ensure
effective implementation of the programme. Due to lack of NGO base in Punjab innovative thinking has to be
evolved for involvement of public reporting system.

Component 2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District, Sub divisional and Community/Rural
                    Hospitals.

(a)      Renovating/Extending District, Sub divisional and Community/Rural Hospitals:-

Civil Works:-      As per the SAR 13 district, 2 special, 46 sub-divisional and 91 community hospitals were to be
renovated/extended and about 2140 new beds were to be added in the bed strength of 5822 (4378 functional). Due
to increase in the number of districts, 15 District, 2 Special, 38 Sub Divisional and 100 Area/Community hospitals
along with 2 training centres have been renovated /extended. In 34 hospitals additional facilities for patient's
attendants have been augmented. Additional 2.40 lac Sq. Mtr. covered area of the existing hospitals has been
increased by way of extension. Out of total 157 institutions, renovated / extended under the project, 14 institutions
have been constructed at new sites due to inadequate expansion provisions and improper locations for emergency
(situated in crowded places). Construction activities were to be taken in four phases, but to cover up the initial
delays, constructions activities were undertaken in two phases comprising 77 and 80 hospitals/institutions, this has
saved again 19 months. 41 professional consultants were engaged for different types of support services for
construction.




                                                         - 47 -

                                                         CivilConstruction Works Programme
                                                                               Completion Schedule


                   160

                   150
                   140

                   130
                   120

                   110                                                                                                                                              Start of
                   100                                                                                                                                              construction asper
                    90                                                                                                                                              SAR

                    80                                                                                                                                              ActualStartof
     HOSPITALSFO.ON 70                                                                                                                                              Construction

                    60                                                                                                                                              Completionof
                    50                                                                                                                                              Constructionasper
                    40                                                                                                                                              SAR
                    30                                                                                                                                              ActualCompletion
                    20                                                                                                                                              ofConstruction
                    10

                     0

                              96-           97-                                                                                                       01-r   01-                                       02-

                       Sep-96    Dec Mar-97    unJ 97p-eS 97-            98-    98     98-           99-           99-           00-

                                                             Dec  Mar-98    unJ                                                                -00c                        -01c
                                                                                  Sep-    Dec Mar-99    Jun Sep-99    Dec Mar-00    Jun Sep-00     De     Ma    Jun Sep-01     De ar-02M -02n
                                                                                                                                                                                             Ju Sep-02    Dec



Lessons Learnt: (i) Cautious selection of the consultancy and construction agencies, continuation in leadership,
effective planning and rigorous monitoring can cover up the delays in construction. (ii) Observations of the World
Bank on preliminary drawings, detailed drawings, and bidding documents should be kept in mind while submitting
next cases.

Procurement of Equipment, Repair & Maintenance:- Equipment status survey was got done to identify the
availability of the equipments (repairable and non-repairable) against the norms. By spending around Rs. 7.00 M
on repair of the 32 types of existing equipment, equipment worth Rs. 250.00 M was put in order. Initially emphasis
was made on purchase of the major/minor and other medical equipment which did not require any coordinating
civil infrastructure. 105 types of different major/minor equipments have been purchased and installed. Right from
the very beginning emphasis was given through the project support for preventive maintenance of the equipments
through Annual Maintenance Contracts (AMC) and technical staff positioned at three equipment repair &
maintenance workshops. Lessons Learnt: (i) Preventive maintenance is quite essential for achieving highest
upkeep time for the vital equipment.

(b)                  Upgrading the effectiveness of clinical and support services and quality of services: All the
renovated/upgraded hospitals have been operationalized along with two training centres. A set of clinical and
staffing norms have been adopted.

Quality Assurance Programme: As per SAR there was a plan for establishment of Quality Assurance Committee
and Working Groups to take care of quality assessment evaluation, improvements and criteria and medical audit.
Initially, State level committees along with working groups were constituted. A set of Core Quality Indicators
taking into consideration dimensions of                                                                    Access to the services;                                        Continuity;                        Technical Competence;
Interpersonal Relations;                                        Efficiency & Effectiveness;                                      Safety; Amenities; Waste Management; Cleanliness;
Referral Systems; Vital Drugs; and Swab Tests have been finalized and monthly grading of all the hospitals is
being done on the basis of such indictors. External Quality Assurance Programme has been introduced by tying
up the CMC Vellore to check the quality of clinical laboratories. Presently, some of the laboratories of the PHSC
hospitals are among the first ten in the India. Medical Record Keeping: Checklists and protocols have been
introduced in all the hospitals for medical record keeping and ICD coding. Special trainings have been given to



                                                                                                                         - 48 -

doctors and paramedics. Prescription Audit to ascertain prescribing practices based on ICD coding was got done.
Patient's Satisfaction: Five rounds of patient's satisfaction surveys have been got conducted, out of which four
surveys have been conducted through external         agencies. Regular analysis and feed backs are being given to
hospitals. Lessons Learnt: (i) Grading & acknowledging performance can help in a big way in improving the
services. (ii) Standardize patient satisfaction survey formats & continuous surveys can help in understanding the
changing needs of the patients and the level of improvements with different timely interventions.

Waste Management:            Guidelines as regard to segregation, storage, disinfection, disposal, sharp management,
as per the Biomedical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 1998 were issued. 955 doctors, 2032 paramedics
and 2142 class-IV employees were got trained. On the basis of recommendations and action plan finalized by the
consultants hired for preparing a comprehensive plan, protective aids and requisite material like; Needle Syringe
Destroyers, Shredders and Autoclaves have been supplied. Deep burial pits for human anatomical waste have been
constructed in all the hospitals and as per the requirements of the law, for some hospitals, arrangements have been
made with the private operators for incineration. Continuous monitoring is being done and special inputs for
improving the systems are being provided through specially created programme of Quality Circles. Manual on
standard operative procedures for biomedical waste have been circulated. Lessons Learnt: Developing quality
circles and its monitoring can be helpful in implementing the program in a sustainable manner.

Training: Based on Training Need Assessment done, areas were identified for the training and training
curriculums were finalized. Following different 23396 trainings were organized as against the targeted number of
10000;

 Category        Clinical/Managerial      Referral    Waste           Surveillance      Total
                 /                                    Management
                 Hands on
                 Equipment
 Doctors                 2080                2997          955              780            6812
 Nurses                  1560                1699         2032             7460            1560
 Paramedic               1691                                                             12882
 s
 Class IV                                                 2142                             2142
       Total             5331                4696         5129             8240           23396

                  Trainings have been organized in prestigious institutions like; PGIMER Chandigarh, CMC
Ludhiana, GMCH Chandigarh, AIIMS New Delhi, LBSNAA Mussoorie, NICD New Delhi, MGSIP Chandigarh,
CEDTI Mohali, ASCI Hyderabad, Jaipur and Abraod. Training have been given in the field of clinical skills,
managerial skills, hands-on equipment, HMIS, Surveillance, Referrals, Waste Management, Procurement,
Computers and Finance. During the course of implementation of training activities, external evaluation was got
done. Two State level training centres have been constructed to impart in-job trainings to doctors and paramedics.
Apart from this, libraries have been established with internet facility for continuous medical education at H.Q.
level as well as in all the district level hospitals. Lessons Learnt: (i) TOT trainings should be discouraged.
Though subsequent trainings imparted by trainers can be cost effective but lack quality. (ii) Training should also
be away from working place. (iii)Proper pre & post evaluation should be made integral part of the training
programmes.

Strengthening of Service Delivery:
Autonomy to Hospital: To introduce this concept following steps were taken; (i) Higher financial powers to
hospital incharge, DMCs and CSs were given; (ii) Full powers were given to hospital incharge for commercial
exploitation for support services for revenue raising, outsourcing of sanitation services, maintenance services of
equipment & hospital building and condemnation of unserviceable articles; (iii) Clear-cut guidelines were given
for the procedures to be adopted for retention and utilization of user charges; (iv) Direct recommendation for
recruitment of critical manpower on contractual terms. Lessons Learnt: Higher accountability is possible only
when higher autonomy is given to the Institutions.



                                                        - 49 -

Health Management Information Systems (HMIS): In order to strengthen evaluation and monitoring capacities,
managerial training as well as trainings in HMIS was given to the hospitals incharge. The performance efficiency
of the hospitals is being judged through 10 defined Performance Indicators. Monthly meetings with the Dy.
Medical Commissioners are being conducted to review the performance of the districts. A continuous monitoring
programme has been implemented under which each DMC reviews the overall performance of the hospitals in the
district and SMO Incharge review the performance of each specialist doctor in their hospitals against the fixed
benchmarks. Selected hospitals are being computerized to report accurate data and guide information. All the 17
DMC offices have been computerized to analyze and transfer data of all the health institutions to H.Q. through
internet. Special trainings have been given to the existing staff for handling the computers both for public utility
and internal information. Lessons Learnt: Rigorous monitoring can sensitize the management & providers and
bring overall improvement in the health delivery.

Improvement of Referral Systems: 133 additional ambulances have been provided. 324 existing ambulances
were repaired. Referral manual were prepared containing guidelines that specify `what' `when' and `how' of refer.
Colour coded referral cards have been introduced for sub centre level to district level for referring the patients.
Trainings to doctors and paramedics for implementation of referral system were given. Incentive for referred
patients (queue jump, exemption of OP/Admission Charges) have been introduced, referral routes have been
established and displayed in all the hospitals. On pilot basis feedback reports on emergency obstetrics care are
being received and reviewed for timely and justified referrals. This feed back information is being analyzed at H.Q.
level and sent to referral institution doctor for taking corrective measures if any. Special tie-up has been made at
tertiary level facilities for creation of special window for the referred patients. Lessons Learnt: Completion of
referral loop is quite vital for the referring institutions and can serve as an incentive to the referring doctor.

Increasing Access to Primary Care Services: To reach poor people of the rural and remote areas for their health
needs and to create awareness among general public as regard to medical facilities available 426 nos. of Out Reach
Health Camps were organized. Tracking, complete follow-up, incentives of referral and cost effectiveness of the
charges were ensured. Six mobile hospitals were launched in backward districts to provide services in the rural
deficit areas. Lessons Learnt: Outreach camps give due benefits i.e. understanding the health needs of the people,
and awareness and building confidence among them as regard to available services.

Information, Education & Communication: Three community based studies were done (i) Study to gauge
Knowledge, Attitude and Practice level (KAP) of people regarding issues concerning health; (ii) Study to identify
"Barriers in accessing health services" specially by women and poor; and (iii) Study to know the psyche of women
undergoing female foeticide (Female Foeticide Myth and Reality). A revised focused strategy was developed with
the assistance of a professional communication agency on the issues like; Health Seeking Behaviour of the
Community, Behaviour of Service Providers, Gender Issues and Water Borne Diseases. Special focus was given by
the professional agency in understanding the needs and the areas of emphasize. Target Groups for each issue were
identified. The material produced was pre-tested in the Community in order to assess the acceptability as regard to
the message to be disseminated. Production of the tools to address the target groups was done and launched
through a multimedia campaign through specially designed Media Plan.                Lessons Learnt: (i) Approach for
handling the IEC issue through professional agency is more effective than in-house handling such issues through
traditional approach. (ii) Focussed approach is quite effective in addressing the core issues and can give more
impacts. (iii) More emphasis should be given on capacity building and trainings for innovative thinking in IEC.

Evaluation of own Performance: During the course of project evolution, the State Govt. expeditiously established
the PHSC to implement and manage the project, thus not hampering the project processing. Project start-up was
delayed due to continuing debate around the PHSC and constraint in the flow of funds. These issues were resolved
through excellent management and monitoring and time lost was covered. Qualitative designing, construction,
meticulous and timely execution of extension works brought a great impact on users, providers and Govt. giving
key agency status to the PHSC in health sector. PHSC executed other health project worth Rs.1400.00 M. The
availability and quality of furniture, major/minor equipment, drugs and other supplies            brought a new zeal in
working environments and professional satisfaction among the providers. Qualitative trainings in prestigious




                                                            - 50 -

institutions to all levels has improved the clinical, managerial and equipment handling skills. Exemplary work has
been done in IEC by focusing special issues by hiring private professional agency, implementation of quality
assurance and waste management programme especially monthly grading of the hospitals, introduction of external
quality assurance programme in the laboratories and creation of waste management quality circles. Administrative
flexibility within the system has given an edge in involving the private sector providers for support & clinical
services and brought higher accountability through higher delegations.

Impacts of the project through different gauges: Achievements against various indicators substantiate above
claims. However, impacts of the project are also visible if we apply different gauges as elaborated below.

Issue:    Excellent Management & Monitoring Techniques ­ 19 months delay was covered up in execution of civil
extension works.

Issue:    Faith of Government and Opinion Makers ­ PHSC has been assigned additional project worth Rs.
1400.00 M. Persistent demands are pouring from public for bringing the management of their respective
institutions under the ambit of PHSC.

Issue:    Focused IEC Campaigns ­ Special campaigns and initiatives for managing gender issues has brought the
improvements in the sex ratio. In a recent study conducted by DoHFW (period from Nov.-03 to Jan-04) has shown
that now sex ratio involving age group 0-6 years has improved to 894, from a level 793 previously recorded.

Issue:    Reduction of Out of Pocket Expenses - Special generic campaigns' focusing the availability of improved
services at reasonable costs has brought down the open market rates of various tests. The rates of ECG has come
down from Rs. 120/- to Rs. 60/-, the rates of Ultrasound from Rs. 450/- to Rs. 150/- and rates of X-ray from Rs.
100/- to Rs. 60/-. This has helped the general public by reducing out of pocket expenses.

Issue:    Establishment of Referral Mechanism ­ A study shows that there is a trend of decrease of the major
surgeries in the Medical Colleges and trend of increase of such surgeries in secondary level hospitals. %age
increase for the indicators like; Admissions, Out Patients, No. of Surgeries, No. of Deliveries & Diagnostic Tests in
the Community Health Centres is much higher as compare to District Hospitals and Sub Divisional Hospitals.

Issue: Sustaining the project Interventions ­ In view of the good work done by the corporation by effectively
implementing the project and bringing radical improvements in the service quality, the State Govt. in principle has
agreed to continue to manage secondary level health care services through PHSC. A notification to this effect has
already been issued on 5.4.2004. The State Govt. has also decided to provide additional 100.00 M rupees to
continue the additional capacity created as a corporate structure and to supplement the supplies being provided to
the hospitals with the World Bank assistance.

Evaluation of Performance of the Bank: 20 World Bank missions visited the State during the identification,
preparation, appraisal and implementation of the project activities. The Bank's input right from the beginning
remained noteworthy. Step wise fixation of benchmarks has played crucial role. Benchmarking was done not only
as per the Project Implementation Plan but was also done keeping in view the capacity and emerged weak areas.
Composition of the mission remained always balanced to suit the inputs and thrust required in the project.
Significant role was played by the Bank missions by timely intervention to address, the constraint as regard to
inadequate and untimely flow of funds, at the highest level for corrective measures to ensure timely and effective
implementation of the project. Mission appreciated the good work and helped        to overcome the problems which
led to non achievement of any target. Effectiveness of Relationship: Positive attitude of the mission leader and
liberty for interaction at any point or at any time created a very healthy atmosphere. This was further strengthened
and broaden by introduction of the concept of the inter-states workshops. Lessons learnt by other states in
implementation of activities were shared, timely corrective steps saved crucial time and costs. Such workshops
became experience sharing forum in which even the other Bank experts contributed to give global wider
perspectives of health care issues.




                                                         - 51 -

* * * * *




 - 52 -

- 53 -

