Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15106-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
FEBRUARY 20, 1996
South Asia Country Department TI
(Bhutan, India,Nepal)
Population and Human Resoureces Operations Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1995)
Currency Unit         =          Rupee
Rupee 34.6            =          US$1.00
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)                      3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer           =          0.62 Miles
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



i
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS              Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AP                Andhra Pradesh
ASCI              Administrative Staff College of India
BOD               Board of Directors (PHSC)
CHC               Community Health Center
CSSM              Child Survival & Safe Motherhood Project
DALY              Disability Adjusted Life Years
EMTC              Equipment Maintenance and Training Center
FW                Family Welfare
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOI               Government of India
GOK               Government of Karnataka
GOP               Govermnent of Punjab
GOWB              Govermment of West Bengal
HV                Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS              Health Management Information System
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICDS I            First Integrated Child Development Services Project
IDA               International Development Association
IEC               Information, Education and Conmunication
IPP 7             Seventh India Population Project
IPP 8             Eighth India Population Project
IPP 9             Ninth India Population Project
ISHA              Indian Society of Health Administrators
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
MCH               Maternal and Child Health
MIS               Management Information Systems
MOHFW             Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NHP               National Health Policy
NSS               National Sample Survey
PAR               Performance Audit Report
PCR               Project Completion Report
PGB               Project Governing Board
PHC               Primary Health Center
PHN               Population, Health and Nutrition
PHR               Population & Human Resources
PHSC              Punjab Health Systems Corporation
PWD               Public Works Department
SA                Social Assessment
SC                Scheduled Castes
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
ST                Scheduled Tribes
STD               Sexually Transmitted Disease
SUBC              Subcenter
TB                Tuberculosis
UIP               Universal Immunization Program
WDR               World Development Report
WHO               World Health Organization






ii
INDIA
STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................v
I.   STATE/SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Health Sector in India .1
B.   The States of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bngal                                         .2
C.   Health Sector Issues in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal                                    .6
D. Lessons from Experience                                                   .8
E.  Linkages with other PHN Projects .11
F.  IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement .13
II.   THE PROJECT
A. Project Approach .14
B. Project Objectives .14
C. Project Content .15
i. Reform Program .15
ii. Project Investments .19
mn.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs .26
B. Financing Plan .28
C.  Procurement Arrangements .29
D. Disbursement Profile .32
E. Project Implementation .33
F.  Status of Project Development .35
G. Social Assessment .36
H. Fiscal Analysis .37
I. Indigenous Population .39
J.  Environmental Aspects .40
K. Land Acquisition .40
L. Accounting and Auditing .40
This report is based on an appraisel mission that visited India in October, 1995. The mission comprised Tawhid Nawaz (Senior Economist and
Mision Leader), Shreelata Rao-Seshadri (Sociologist), Paramita Sudharto (Public Health Specialist), David Porter (Equipment and Support Services
Specialist), Eid Dib (Procurement Specialist and Architect), Keith Hinchliffe (Senior Economist), Rani Tudor (Poverty Analyst), Kirti Baneijee
(Public Health Specialist) and Nisar Sharif (MIS Specialist, WHO-SEARO). They were assisted by Main Chand (Procurent Specialist) and Sanjay
Vani (Disbursanent Specialist) of the New Delhi Office. Salim Habayeb (Senior Public Healh Physician) provided subsantial contribution and
advice during project development Kevin Casey (Senior Implementation Specialist) and Sajitha Bashir (Economist) contributed during project
preparstion. Mark Schlagel and Jane Mukira assisted in the preparation of this document The Peer Reviewers were Jagadish Upadhyay (EA2HR),
Marie-Odile Waty (AF3PH), Xavier Coll (HDD) and Qaiser Khan (MN2HR). The report is endorsed by Richard Skolnik, Chief, Population and
Human Resources Operations Division and Heinz Vergin, Director, South Asia Country Department 11 (Bhutan, India, Nepal).



iii
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS
A.   Benefits ..........................      ,           ,          ,         ,          .. 41
B.  Program Objective Categories .                                                                      42
C.       Risks............................................................................................................................43
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . .44



iv
Page No.
TABLES
1.1                   Lessons Applied From IDA Experience in PHN Lending
to the Proposed Project ....................................................                                           10
1.2                   Linkages with Other PHN Projects in Kamataka, West Bengal and Punjab ................ 12
3.1                    Cost By Component ....................................................                                                 26
3.2                    Cost By Categories of Expenditures ....................................................                                27
3.3                    Procurement Arrangements ....................................................                                          30
3.4                    Estimated Expenditures and Disbursements ....................................................                          32
ANNEXES
Annex  1               Health Status and Epidemiology ....................................................                                    46
Annex 2                Health Sector Development Program .....................................                      ,.,.. 51
Annex 3                Public Expenditures on the Health Sector ....................................                                          68
Annex 4                Costs and Efficiency Comparisons of First Referral
vs. Tertiary Level Hospital Care ...........................                                                           80
Annex 5                User Charges and Cost Recovery ...........................                                                             85
Annex 6                Project Management ...........................                                                                         91
Annex 7                Training ............................111
Annex 8               Referral System ...........................                                                                            125
Annex 9                Quality Assurance Program in Hospitals ...........................                                                   130
Annex 10               Medical Waste Management ...........................                                                                 133
Annex 11               Epidemiological Surveillance of Communicable Diseases
and Health Management Information System  ....................................                                       139
Annex  12              Information, Education and Communication Strategy ....................................                                 147
Annex 13               Tribal and Underdeveloped Areas Strategy ....................................                                        150
Annex 14               Social Assessment ....................................                                                                155
Annex 15               Project Costs ....................................                                                                   169
Annex 16               Summary of Construction Program ....................................                                                 193
Annex 17               Procurement Arrangements ....................................                                                        223
Annex 18   Implementation Plan ...............                                                                                               224
Annex 19   Performance Indicators ...............                                                                                            237
Annex 20   Supervision Plan ...............                                                                                                  247
Annex 21               Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements ..............................                                            251
Annex 22               Documents Available in Project File ..............................                                                    252






v
INDIA
STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acing by its President
Beneficiaries:   States of Kaatka, Punjab, West Bengal and Punjab Health Systems Corporation
(PHSC)
Amount:          IDA Credit SDR 235.5 million (US$350.0 million equivalent)
Poverty:         Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI). This project is classified as a PTI because a
large proportion of project beneficiaries will be from the poor and vulnerable segments
of the states' population. In Karnataka and West Bengal, about two-thirds of expected
project beneficiaries would belong to the lowest 40% of the population in terms of
income distribution. In Punjab, a relatively large share of the investment under the
project would be targeted in the Upper Bari Doab and rural Southem Malwa regions
where 30% and 25% respectively of the overall population live below the poverty line.
Terms:           IDA Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Lending Tenns: The Goverment of India would make the proceeds of the Credit available to the States of
Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal under standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of Idia; Punjab would further transfer the funds to PHSC as a
grant GOI would assume foreign exchange risk.
Descridtion:     The project would be implemented in Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal. It would
be an investment loan with policy reform in areas of resource allocation for the health
sector, capacity development for sector analysis and management strengthening,
enhance participation of the private and voluntary sectors in the delivery of health
services, and implementation of user charges for those who can afford to pay. The
project would finance investment related to three main activities:
(i) Management Development and Institutional Strengthening: (a) improving the
institutional framework for policy development; (b) strengthening the management and
implementation capacity of institutions; and (c) developing a surveillance capacity
for major communicable diseases and response capabilities; (ii) Improving Service
Quality. Access and Effectiveness at the First Referral Level, through: (a) upgrading
community, subdivisional and  district hospitals; (b) upgrading the effectiveness
of clinical and support services through streamlining of norms and provision of
training, management information system, waste management and support services;
and (c) improving the referral mechanism and strengthening linkages with the primary
and tertiary health care levels; and (iii) Improving Access to Primary Health Care in
Remote and Underdeveloped areas: (a) upgrading primary health centers in the
Sunderban area of West Bengal; and (b) increasing access to primary care services
among the SC/ST population in Karnataka.



vi
Bernfits:       In addition to systemic benefits which would indirectly benefit the population of the
states of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal, the project would directly benefit
approximately 10 million out-patients and 0.7 million in-patients currently utilizing
existing hospital services in the three states through the provision of better quality of
health services. The project is expected to directly benefit an estimated 5.2 million
incremental out-patients and an estimated 0.8 million incremental in-patients in the three
states. A major benefit of the proposed project would be to assist the states of
Karnataka, West Bengal and Punjab to put in place a coherent approach to establishing
a cost-effective and sustainable health system. This would indirectly benefit the states'
population as a whole. First, the broader sectoral policy reform envisaged under the
project would increase the efficiency of the health sector by improving the environment
in which the health sector operates. Second, there would be substantial cost savings in
each state through the implementation of strean-line& s.-vice norns and rationalization
of service provision at different levels of the systtrn.  The technical and quality
improvements, i ic uding operations and maintenance functions, at the institutional and
health facility levels would enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of health care
services by encouraging patients to seek timely care, resulting in higher cure rates at
lower costs. Third, patients currently utilizing existing services would benefit from
better quality services. Other qualitative benefits would be: the enhanced credibility and
vital support to the primary health care system through the strengthening of first referral
facilities; and externalities associated with improvements in waste disposal methods and
surveillance systems for major communicable diseases. Finally, the proposed project
would have a direct long-term impact on improving the health status of the people of
each state and would thus contribute to increasing the earning potential of the poor.
Risks:          The proposed project carries several risks that have affected, to varying degrees, PHN
projects in India. These include poor procurement, late disbursement, untimely and
inadequate flow of funds, poor maintenance of buildings and equipment, and inadequate
attention to software and qualitative aspects. Most of these risks have been substantially
reduced through careful project design. There are two additional risks associated with
this project. Institutional. The capacity of existing institutions to undertake systemic
improvements and to establish a more rational health delivery system has not been tested
in India.  Institutional strengthening, including strengthening of the managemnent
structure in all three states would be emphasized in the proposed project to
address this risk. In Punjab, the newly established PHSC might initially have some
start-up problems. The Government of Punjab, at the highest level, has made a
commitment to enable the PHSC to effectively implement the Project. Financial. As
with other projects in India, the overall financial status of the states is a risk. The
position of public finances in Karnataka and recent trends in expenditure on health both
suggest that the projects' incremental recurrent costs are sustainable. In Punjab. the
necessary resources needed to sustain this commitment can be mobilized with a small
increase in revenue. In West Bengal, some reorientation of its fiscal policies may be
required to ensure sustainability. To help reduce the risk to financial sustainability, an
on-going mechanism for monitoring overall state finances as well as the financial
situation of the health sector would be undertaken through a comprehensive mid-term
review. If necessary, additional measures to achieve financial sustainability of project
benefits would be agreed upon based on that review.



vii
Estimated Project Cost:'
Component                                    Local           Foreign       Total
-------------------US$ Million---------
Management Development & Institutional         22.7             3.9         26.6
Strengthening
Improve Service Quality, Access and          237.7            70.5         308.2
Effectiveness
Improve Access to Basic Health Services       17.6             6.7          24.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         277.9            81.1         359.1
Physical Contingencies                        25.6             8.0          33.6
Price Contingencies                            18.5            5.4          24.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          322.1            94.6         416.7
' Including taxes and duties estimated at US$22.3 million equivalent
Financing Plan:                              Local           Foreign       Total
-------------------US$ Million--------------
GOK                                            25.0            0.0          25.0
GOP                                            16.4            0.0          16.4
GOWB                                           25.3            0.0          25.3
IDA                                          255.4            94.6         350.0
Total                                        322.1            94.6         416.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
-----------------US $ Million---------------
FY97    FY98    FY99    FY2000   FY01           FY02
Annual        24.5     57.9       85.9     87.6      67.2      26.9
Cumulative    24.5     82.4      168.3    255.9     323.1     350.0
Economic Rate of Retum: Not Applicable.






EiDIA
STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
L STATE/SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Health Sector in India
1.1   Introduction. During the past two decades, India has developed a health care system in which
the Government sector finances and manages a basic health care infrastructure, while the private sector
predominantly provides ambulatory care services. Substantial gaps, however, remain in the effective
delivery of health care, especially for the poorest sections of the population. Key health indicators
show that the health status of India's population remains low. Communicable diseases continue to be
major health problems; maternal mortality is high; acute respiratory and diarrheal diseases account for
a large proportion of childhood mortality; and preventable mortality and morbidity, especially among
the poor, exact a high toll. Moreover, with the increasing age profile of its population, India is moving
into an epidemiological transition with the double burden of significant communicable diseases and
increasing non-commuaicable diseases such as cardio-vascular diseases, cancers, diabetes and cataract
blindness.
1.2    Health Policy. The Eighth Plan (1992-1997) identified health as one of the six priority areas,
and determined that public investments in health are critical for human resource development and
poverty alleviation in India. India's long term strategy for health sector development is enunciated in
the National Health Policy (NHP) of 1983. Public policy for health has been based on an implicit
assumption that primnary health care is a basic right to which people should not be denied access due to
inability to pay or for other socio-economic reasons. The NHP emphasizes the role of the state in
providing basic health care, through the development of publicly run health facilities and draws
attention to the strengthening of cooperation between the public and private sectors. The NHP gives
high priority to the control of fertility, infectious diseases of public health importance and preventable
causes of maternal and childhood mortality and morbidity. This is an appropriate health policy given
India's burden of disease (see Annex 1). However, investment allocations do not fully reflect the
priorities highlighted in the government's health policy and implementation of health programs
continues to be weak.
1.3    Health Care Financing. In 1991, total health spending in India accounted for about 6 percent
of GDP, or about US$13 per capita per year. Of this, Government contributions including center,
states and municipalities account for about 20% of total health spending or 1.3% of GDP. Private
health spending accounts for the remaining 80%. As a percentage of GDP, total health spending is
higher than in other Asian countries which are at about India's level of per capita income. However,
the percentage of Government to total health spending in India is lower than in comparable Asian
countries. There is also a difference in the type of health services provided in the public and private
sectors. Public provided services are the dominant source of preventive health care, such as
inmunization, ante-natal care, and infectious disease control services, in both rural and urban areas.



2
Private providers are dominant in the provision of ambulatory care for acute illnesses, or illnesses not
requiring hospitalization. Moreover, private health spending is almost entirely from out-of-pocket
sources, and health insurance is insignificant and limited in scope. This places a disproportionate
burden on the poor.
1.4    The structure of Government's financing of the health sector is quite complex. Under the
federal structure of the Indian Union, public provision of health services is primarily the responsibility
of the state governments. The center, however, exercises its discretion to initiate and fully or partially
finance centrally-financed schemes through a mechanism of specific grants to the states. The state
governments retain responsibility for implementing such schemes. Public financing of health at the
central and state levels is influenced by the planning process which takes place within the framework of
central and state five-year plans. Within this structure of Government spending, states spend about
87%, the center about 10%, and municipalities account for the remaining 3%. A large component of
public spending on health is directed towards tertiary care and medical education, and on public health
interventions that are not the highest priority. The share of salaries in the health budget has continued
to increase, and recent sector work indicates that it accounts for 70-80% of funds targeted to the health
sector. As a result, the share of non-salary recurrent costs has fallen and operation and maintenance of
health programs continue to suffer. As a result, the total amount of resources available for high
priority, cost-effective health services is small.
1.5    The capacity of the health care system in India to effectively address the short- and long-term
health care needs of the country remains limited. The country needs to be prepared to deal with the
evolving burden of disease in the next decade and to put in place a sustainable health system which
would combine elements of public health and clinical services in providing an adequate and necessary
package of basic health services. This package of basic health care services would integrate primary
health care with secondary level or first referral hospitals.' The emphasis on the first referral facilities
at the state level in the proposed project is to complement the existing investments in primary care
infrastructure and provide vital support to primary health care services and the rest of the health sector.
In addition, a program of health sector policy reform needs to be initiated to provide the general
firamework for health sector development. These changes need to take place within the context of state
health systems and will provide technical effectiveness and improved quality of health care.
B. The States of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
1.6    The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal have expressed early commitment to
undertake health reform. Based on several workshops, presentations and project proposals from about
10 states, these three states have been included in the proposed project since they are ahead of the
others in developing a package of policy reform. In addition, West Bengal has been chosen because of
the high level of poverty in large areas of the state and Punjab because it can set an example for other
states in areas of policy reform. These states also provide an interesting geographical, cultural and
I The terms first referral and secondary level hospitals are used synonymously in this report. They denote
community/rural hospitals that have a bed strength of about 30-50 beds; area/taluka hospitals that have
about 75-100 beds; sub-divisional/State General hospitals that have about 100-350 beds; and district
hospitals that have about 300-550 beds. The level of services offered increase from community to area to
sub-divisional to districts hospitals.



3
ethnic diversity. Furthermore, the administrative capacity to undertake a project of this type is
relatively strong in these states. The reason for combining the three states under one project is that they
will share common elements that are key to the functioning of health systems, such as service norms,
training, referral systems, surveillance systems for major communicable diseases, equipment
management systems, quality assurance and information, education and communication (IEC)
networks. The implementation of the project in each state would be mutually beneficial for lesson
learning and sharing of experience with respect to these key elements. A brief description of the health
status and burden of disease in Karnataka, West Bengal and Punjab, which have a combined
population of about 140 million people (1995), follows.
1.7    Health Status and Epidemiology in the Three States: Karnataka. The state of Kamataka,
covering an area of 191,791 square kilometers, is located in the southwest part of India. The
population in 1995 was about 48 million, with urban areas accounting for about 31 percent of the
population. Both in terms of area and population, Karnataka ranks eighth among the states of India.
The state is divided into twenty districts which are grouped into four Revenue Divisions with
headquarters at Bangalore, Belgaum, Gulbarga and Mysore. Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled
Tribes (ST) formed 16.4 and 4.0 percent respectively of the population. According to the 1991 census,
the literacy rate was 67 percent among males and 44 percent among females, which is marginally
higher than the country average. In 1991, the last year for which consistent estimates across states are
available, the per capita income was US$329 equivalent, compared to the per capita average for India
of US$330. 32% of the population is below the poverty line compared to about 33% for India as a
whole.
1.8    Karnataka is performing slightly better than the national average in terms of health status and
epidemiological profile. In Karnataka, the birth rate of 26.3, death rate of 8 and infant mortality rate of
67 per thousand live births compares to the national averages of 29.3, 9.8 and 80 per thousand live
births respectively. In the last decade, the number of patients admitted to government hospitals has
increased by 60 percent, putting a great deal of pressure on hospital facilities. State level
epidemiological data indicate that injury and poisoning (19.9%) are among the leading causes of
morbidity, followed by infectious and parasitic diseases (16.3%); diseases of the respiratory system
(14.50%); and complications of pregnancy and childbirth (11.1%). During the period 1982-92, the
increase in in-patients has been greatest for the treatment of infectious diseases, neoplasm, endocrine,
nutritional and metabolic diseases; immunity disorders; complications due to pregnancy and
puerperium; and injuries and poisoning. The burden of disease in Karnataka reflects the initial phase
of the health transition taking place during the late 80's and early 90's. On the one hand, selected
health indicators, such as infant mortality, neonatal and post natal mortality and stillbirth rates, have
deteriorated; on the other hand, injuries and trauma are increasing.
1.9    West Bengal. West Bengal, situated in eastern India, is bound by Bangladesh, Nepal and
Bhutan, and covers an area of about 88,700 square kilometers. With a total population of 72 million in
1995, it is the most densely populated state in India (810 per square kilometer). 39% of the population
is below 15 years of age, and about 28% is urban. The large rural population is mainly agricultural,
with a predominance of small and marginal farmers. It is estimated that more than 30% of the rural
population lives below the poverty line. ST and SC constitute 5.6% and 23.6% of the population,
respectively. The literacy rate is about 58%, with a large urban-rural differential. The state is divided



4
into 17 districts, with 344 community blocks. In 1991, the per capita income was US$294 equivalent,
with 28% of the population below the poverty line.
1.10 In terms of selected health indicators, West Bengal is better off than the average Indian state,
with a birth rate of 25.6, death rate of 7.3 and infant mortality rate of 58 per thousand live births. A
recent study indicated the following burden of disease: obstetric and gynecological (23%); gastro-
intestinal diseases (12%); cardiovascular diseases (9%/o); pulmonary diseases (10%/6); muskuloskeletal
diseases (9%/6); accidents and injury (9%/6); urinary diseases (8%); skin diseases (7%/6) and neonatal
diseases (6%). More than 50% of the burden of disease is attributable to matenal and child health and
communicable diseases, indicating that the health transition has not yet begun in West Bengal.
1.11   Punjab. The state of Punjab is situated in the north-westem part of India and covers an area of
131,015 square kilometers, with a population of 21.9 million (1995). 29% of the population lives in
urban areas. The state is divided into 14 districts, grouped into three regional divisions, with
headquarters at Firozpur, Patiala and Jalandhar. According to the 1991 census, the average literacy
rate for the state is about 59%, and the sex ratio is 882 females per thousand males compared to the
national average of 927 females per thousand males. In 1991, the per capita income was US$554
equivalent, and only 12% of the state's population was below the poverty line. However, as in other
states, there is substantial regional variation in per capita income. The Upper Bari Doab area, in the
northwest comer of the state, has 30% of its population below the poverty line; rural poverty is most
pervasive in the Upper Bari Doab area, and Southern Malwa, where 40% and 25%, respectively, are
below the poverty line.
1.12   Punjab has a birth rate of 27.7, a death rate of 7.8 and an infant mortality rate of 53 per
thousand live births. The 1992 Survey of Cause of Death (rural) shows that fevers resulting from
infective conditions (24%) were the leading cause of death followed by circulatory system disorders
(17%), degenerative conditions (17%), trauma (11%) and respiratory disorders (11%). In terms of
outpatients seen at medical institutions, the Annual Dispensary Report also shows that 76 percent of
the disease burden is due to non-communicable diseases; acute respiratory infection is the other major
disease burden at 17 percent. These figures, when compared to other Indian states, reflect the health
transition underway in Punjab.
1.13   Organization of the Public Health Care System. The public health system in Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal corsi:ts of three tiers. At the bottom are primary health care facilities where
basic health services are provided, with emphasis on preventive and pfomotive aspects such as family
planning, maternal and child health (MCH), treatment of minor ailments, malarial treatment and
spraying, sanitation, and public health education. This level includes, in Karnataka, 1,875 Primary
Health Centers (PHCs) and Primary Health Units (PHUs); in Punjab, 1,462 subcenters, 484 PHCs and
104 Community Health Centers (CHCs); in West Bengal, 914 PHCs and 249 Block PHCs. The
management of this level of health care in West Bengal and Punjab is under the Directorate of Health
Services. In Karnataka, however, family planning and MCH services are under the Directorate of
Family Welfare.
1.14  In the middle are the first referral hospitals or secondary level hospitals, consisting of hospitals
of various bed strengths, ranging generally between 30 and 550 beds, at community, area,
subdivisional and district levels. These first referral hospitals provide in-patient and out-patient care



5
with diagnostic and treatment facilities not available at the primary level. This level includes, in
Karnataka, 239 community, sub-divisional and district hospitals (a total of 14,858 beds); in Punjab,
217 community, sub-divisional and district hospitals (a total of 6,745 beds); and in West Benal 175
community, sub-divisional, state general and district hospitals (a total of 19,964 beds). This level of
health care is managed by the Directorate of Health Services. The provision of services at the first
referral level is inadequate in all three states and this tier does not provide the critical support needed at
the primary level.
1.15   At the top of the health structure are the tertiary hospitals, including teaching hospitals, which
are staffed and equipped to provide more specialized treatments and generally have a capacity
exceeding 750 beds, with some variations across states. This level includes, in Karnataka, 17 teaching
hospitals; in Punjab, 3 teriary hospitals; and in West Bengal, 13 teaching hospitals. In addition, each
state has other specialized hospitals such as TB hospitals, mental hospitals, infectious disease hospitals
and leprosy hospitals. They are managed by the Directorate of Medical Education. In addition to the
three major Directorates mentioned above, there are other smaller Directorates within the Department
of Health and Family Welfare and these vary across states. In Karnataka, for example, there is also a
Directorate of Indian Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy, and the Drug Controller.
1.16   Utilization of Health Services. The national sample survey (NSS) utilization data from the
42nd round show that an overwhelning majority of households utilized the allopathic systen of
medicine both for hospitalization (98%) and ambulatory care (96%). The preference for the allopathic
system was universal and not influenced by household characteristics such as income, social class or
literacy. Public hospitals appear to be more often utilized both in rural and urban areas. For example,
in West Bengal, 77% and 73% of hospitalized cases utilized public hospitals in rural and urban areas,
respectively. About 8% utilized private hospitals and nursing homes in rural areas, and 24% in urban
areas. Despite some regional and rural/urban variations, occupancy rates at first referral hospitals are
close to 100% in West Bengal and between 60-70% in Karnataka and Punjab. Among ST households,
utilization of public hospitals was much lower; and ST households choose private hospitals much less
compared to other household groups. About 95% of govenmment services were free (although there
were indirect costs to the individual) compared to only 7% of services in the private sector. Of the
kinds of ailments treated by the private sector, preliminary analysis suggest that 35% of cases treated
were related to child birth, 30-40% were fevers and injuries and 20-30% were for surgery.
1.17   Beneficiary assessment studies show that Government hospitals, especially first referral
hospitals, are utilized predominantly by lower income groups. For example, in Karnataka, over 45% of
the patients have an annual income below Rs. 15,000 (close to the official poverty line) and over 90%
of the patients have an annual income below the taxable level of Rs. 50,000. Moreover, Government
facilities are used mainly for treatment of communicable diseases which affect the poor more
intensively. Those who can afford to pay usually prefer to use private hospitals since the quality of
services available at Government hospitals is poor, as is the availability of staff, drugs and essential
supplies (see Annex 14).
1.18   Public Health Expenditure. The public health care budget was about Rs. 4,872 million in
Karnataka (FY95), Rs. 5,570 million in West Bengal (FY96) and Rs. 2,202 million in Punjab (FY94).
In FY94, the share of health and family welfare in the total revenue budget in each state was about
6.4%, 5.3% and 7.2% respectively. Since FY90, the share of health in the revenue budget has declined



6
in Punjab (from 6.6% to 5.3%) and West Bengal (from 8.4% to 7.2%) and has increased marginally in
Karnataka (from 6.1% to 6.4%). Annual public health expenditure as a percentage of the state's Net
Domestic Product is only 1.3% in Karnataka, 0.9% in Punjab and 1.2% in West Bengal (see Annex 3).
1.19   In FY94, about 40% of public health expenditures in Karnataka and West Bengal and about
60% in Punjab was allocated to the provision of primnary health care services, the largest component of
which included expenditures on family welfare and programs for the prevention and eradication of
conmnunicable diseases. Analysis of the composition of public expenditures on health during the last
five years shows that the budgetary emphasis on primary health care has been maintained.
1.20   Allocation to public hospitals (secondary and tertiary) in Karnataka in FY95 was about 33%
of the health budget; in West Bengal, it was 37%; and in Punjab it was about 41%. This analysis of
subsectoral allocations highlights some important issues. First, the allocation of expenditures for
hospital services is relatively low in the states, compared to other low income countries. Only 4
countries in the 29 countries reviewed by Barnum and Kutzin (1993) spent less than 40% of their
health budget on hospital services. Second, allocations to hospital services in the states, especially at
the first referral level, have been adversely affected even in years when the overall health budget has
grown. Third, resource allocations within the hospital sector have been unfavorable to sub-divisional
and rural/community hospitals.
1.21   The non-salary recurrent cost budget has been shrinking and the share of salaries of staff have
increased in recent years (see Annex 3). For example, in West Bengal, salaries and wages accounted
for about 75% of total expenditures at urban hospitals, and materials and supplies accounted for less
than 10%. With a rising share of salaries and total allocations remaining constant, the norms for
expenditure on drugs, supplies and other consumables have been held constant in nominal terms. Since
price inflation for these commodities have been greater than average, real expenditures on critical
inputs other than personnel has declined substantially in recent years.
C. Health Sector Issues in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
1.22   Recent sector work on "Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care
Services" (Report No. 13042-IN, May 1995) recommended that the financing of health care in India
needs to be increasingly viewed within the context of structural adjustment and stabilization policies
since the latter are likely to affect government health spending at the central and state levels. Since
more than 80% of public spending on health is accounted for by the state budgets, and since the states
are primarily responsible for implementing various health programns, financing and policy reform to
increase efficiency and improve effectiveness needs to be targeted at the state level. However, the need
and the challenge for each state can be quite different given the burden of disease, existing public health
programns, past pattem of public investment in the health sector, the importance and the level of
involvement of the private sector, the level of poverty etc. In spite of these differences, there are some
common themes at the state level which emerge as being of equal concem for all states, and which need
to be addressed.
1.23   Budgetary/Resource Allocation Issues. Public resources allocated to the health sector in
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal from the national, state and municipality budgets are inadequate
to meet basic health care needs and compare unfavorably to several Asian countries with similar levels



7
of per capita income. The main problems at the state level, where more than 80% of public funds come
from the state budgets, are: (i) the relatively small allocation within the state budget to the health
sector; (ii) the disproportionately high contribution to the tertiary level of health care at the expense of
first referral facilities and preventive and promotive care services; (iii) the lack of adequate allocations
for operations and maintenance of investments in the health sector, in particular the size of allocations
for non-salary recurrent expenditures; and (iv) low level of revenue collection from user charges.
1.24   Institutional Issues. Institutional weaknesses in the health system result in a low level of
efficiency. The referral system is largely ineffective; clinical skills at first referral hospitals are below
standard; and technical support for the primary level of care is weak. Structure of Service Delivery:
The mechanism for delivering public health services at the state level faces serious problems related to
the overlapping functions among the various tiers of health care provision. Services provided at
different tiers of the system are often duplicated, and there is no clear delineation of services at each
type of facility. Since the first referral hospitals are performing inadequately, tertiary level facilities are
over-burdened. Moreover, the lower tier institutions such as PHCs are underutilized due to lack of
technical support (such as treatment and diagnosis) from first referral level institutions. Referral
Svyst: Institutional and technical linkages for referral between different tiers are weak. It is estimated
that, with the streamlining of service norms and adequate provision of inputs, a third of all cases which
are currently treated at tertiary facilities could be adequately treated, and at lower costs, at first referral
facilities. Surveillance Development and Response Capability: The ability of the public health system
to cope with unforeseen health emergencies is limited due to weak surveillance and rapid response
capability. For instance, the plague scare in September-October 1994 exposed the inability of the
public health system to respond to such events.
1.25   Management and Planning Issues. Management of facilities at the primary and first referral
levels is inefficient, especially with regard to the integration of administrative and financial
responsibilities. There are few incentives for hospitals to improve their management system. The
capacity to undertake health planning, including the ability to undertake the monitoring of the evolving
epidemiological profile and the burden of disease, analysis of cost-effective means of achieving the best
use of limited resources, analysis of the medical manpower situation and monitoring of private health
sector development at the state level, is inadequate.
1.26 Technical and Quality Issues. Health facilities at the primary and first referral hospitals in
the states continue to face operational deficiencies due to general and technical inefficiencies.
Streamlined clinical and support service norms are not applied at first referral hospitals, as a result of
which lower tiers of the health system remain underutilized. Support services and infrastructure at
secondary hospitals are inadequate to deliver quality care. Shortages of diagnostic facilities, including
equipment for perforning laboratory procedures, are common and adversely affect day-to-day
functioning. Communications networks and transport facilities are inadequate to meet health care
demand. Shortages of trained personnel in key areas affect quality of services; and inadequate repair
and maintenance services for machinery and equipment leads to malfunction and frequent breakdowns.
Furthermore, the quality of services is also affected by the absenteeism of doctors and other medical
staff in less developed areas of the state.



8
1.27   Access to Health Services. According to hospital data, the proportion of hospital users
belonging to SC/ST groups is commensurate with their proportion in the general population. However,
considering the poor socio-econornic condition of these groups, and their low nutritional level, the
morbidity and mortality in this population is greater and warrants a higher utilization of secondary
hospital services. An additional issue is the low utilization of health services by women. In Karnataka,
for example, the NSS survey indicates that the sex ratio among hospitalized cases is 786 females for
1,000 males, whereas the sex ratio in the population is 960 females per 1,000 males. There is a need to
enhance the utilization of hospital services by women and SC/ST groups by strengthening links
between primary and secondary levels of care through an effective referral mechanism and reducing the
physical and psychological distances traveled. Disparities also exist between the urban and rural parts
of the states with respect to access to health facilities and service quality. The urban based secondary
hospitals tend to be overcrowded, especially the outpatient facilities, and operate at near full capacity,
whereas some of the remote rural facilities remain underutilized because they are unable to provide
even basic services.
1.28   Role of the Private Sector and NGOs. Detailed information on the scope, quality and size of
the private sector is not easily available. Recent sector work found that the private sector plays a major
role in the provision and financing of health care in India. There has been a significant growth of
private sector facilities in recent years, especially in Punjab and Karnataka. In Punjab 40% of all
hospital beds are in the private sector; in Karnataka, about 33% of all hospital beds are in the private
sector; and in West Bengal, private hospitals and nursing homes account for about 23% of hospital
beds in the state. In all three states, about 80% of all private hospital beds are located in urban areas.
The private sector comprises a wide range of health providers, ranging from the household doctors in
the villages to the corporate sector in the cities and charitable hospitals and dispensaries. However,
many of these providers are unqualified, licensing is weak or non-existent, and quality is varied. Lack
of regulations and effective legal remedies contributes to inappropriate practices. Government's ability
to monitor, regulate, register and certify private care providers could be strengthened and there still
remains scope for expanding the role of the private sector.
1.29   The role and scope of NGOs in delivering health care services have so far been limited. NGOs
have a comparative advantage in improving access to health services for some disadvantaged groups in
remote and rural areas. Opportunities remain for effective NGO participation in service delivery as
well as behavior changing information, education and communication (IEC) activities.
D. Lessons from Experience
1.30   This is the second project in India that involves the health system at the state level. It is more
broadly based than the on-going or completed population, health and nutrition (PHN) projects in India.
Even so, the experience of social sector projects in India is varied and extensive enough to provide
some important lessons for the preparation and implementation of this project.



9
1.31   There are five completed PHN projects in India for which Project Completion Reports (PCRs)
or Performance Audit Reports (PARs) are available.2 These are the First, Second, Third and Fourth
Population projects and the First Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition project. The Operations Evaluation
Department has also undertaken an Impact Evaluation Report of the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
project. Overall, the projects have met an important part of their development objectives. Population I
and II met most of their aims, but did not have any systemic impact on the Family Welfare program.
Population III had significant outcomes in Kerala but not in Karnataka. Population IV appears to have
contributed to very significant improvements in contraceptive prevalence and reduction in infant
mortality. The Tamil Nadu Nutrition project is well-documented as having a major impact on
improving the nutritional status of young children.
1.32   There are currently fourteen on-going PHN projects in India. The list below shows eight that
are now on-going in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal:
Health sector: National AIDS Control, National Leprosy Elimination and Cataract
Blindness projects;
*     Family Welfare (FW) sector: Population VII, Population VIII, Population IX and
Child Survival and the Safe Motherhood (CSSM) projects; and
*     Nutrition sector: First Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS I) project.
1.33   Despite many positive outcomes, the completed and ongoing projects have suffered to varying
degrees from a variety of implementation problems. These have included: late start-up, poor
procurement, slow disbursement, frequent management tumover, untimely and inadequate flow of
funds, poor maintenance of buildings and equipment, and inadequate attention to software and
qualitative aspects.
1.34   The design of the proposed project would take account of the concems and problem areas
identified above as shown in Table 1.1.
2 India: PCR - First Population Project (Cr. 312-IN), May 19, 1981; PPAR No. 3748,
December31, 1981.
India: PCR - Second Population Project (Cr. 981-IN), June 20, 1989; PPAR No. 8896, June 29,
1990.
India: PCR - Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Cr. 1003-IN), November 26, 1989; Impact
Evaluation Report No. 13783, December 12, 1994.
India: PCR - Third Population Project (Cr. 1426-IN), Report No. 12278, August 1, 1993,
India: PCR - Fourth Population Project (Cr. 1623), Report No. 13785, December 12, 1994.



10
Table 1.1: Lessons Applied From IDA Experience in PHN Lending to the Proposed Project
Lessons                         Corresponding Action to be Taken                 Reference
Inadequate Attention to         At the early state of implementation the following  paras. 2.21,2.22,2.23,
Management Aspects          actions would be taken: enhancement of          2.28, 2.29, 2.30, 3.24, 3.25,
management and supervision authority for        3.26, 3.27
construction and maintenance of operational     Annex 6
activities by the implementing agencies; adequate
staffing of key project management persornel;
adequate staffing arrangements at district, sub-
divisional and community hospitals; strengthening
of management procedures. In addition, a mid-term
review of the management systems would be
undertaken.
2.  Slowness in Implementation    Strengthen implementation capacity; enhancement  para. 2.30
and Weak Supervision        of implementation capacity of the engineering wing  Annexes 6, 18, 20
of the implementing agencies; detailed
implementation plan in place; regular field
supervision by local consultants included in
Supervision Plan.
3.  Poor Maintenance of         The state Governments will provide adequate      para. 2.10, 2.30
Buildings and Equipment     resources during project period for operations and
maintenance services; capacity for equipment
maintenance and training to be enhanced.
4.  Untimely and Inadequate     Assurance provided by the state Governments that  paras. 3.21, 3.42
Flow of Funds to Project    annual review of project expenditures and resource
requirements will be carried out with IDA in order
to ensure timely flow of fimds; assurance provided
by GOI that it would release about three months of
project expenditure in advance to the state
Governments.
5.  Poor Procurement            Procurement arrangements for works and services in    paras. 3.31, 3.32, 3.34
advanced state of preparation; lists of hospitals  Annexes 16, 18
prepared, use of standard bidding documents; first
phase of construction plan completed; equipment
lists prepared and specification lists discussed with
IDA.
6.  Inadequate Attention to     Staffing and technical norms at district, sub-   paras. 2.27, 2.31, 2.32,
Qualitative Aspects         divisional and community hospitals agreed upon;  3.35, 3.36
referral system and linkages with primary care  Annexes 7, 8, 9, 19
services to be established according to agreed
norms; clinical training needs developed;
management training needs developed; quality
assurance program developed collaboratively with
clinicians and practitioners from around the state;
performance indicators developed and agreed with
borrower.



11
1.35   In addition, international experience has also been considered in the design and scope of the
project. The World Development Report (1993) on Investing in Health suggested that a broad sectoral
approach within a supportive policy environment produces significant positive results and benefits. It
also suggested that a limited package of public health measures and essential clinical interventions is a
top priority for government finance. On the components of the public health package, the list includes:
(i) the expanded program on immunization, including micronutrient supplementation; (ii) school health
programs to treat worm infection, micronutrient deficiencies and health education; (iii) programs to
increase public knowledge about family planning, health and nutrition; (iv) programs to reduce
consumption of tobacco, alcohol and other drugs; and (v) AIDS prevention program with a strong STD
component. On the components of the essential clinical services the list includes: (i) prenatal and
delivery care; (ii) family planning services (these two components together constitute a Safe
Motherhood Program); (iii) management of the sick child; (iv) treatment of TB; (v) case management
of STDs; and (vi) treatment of minor infection and trauma, otherwise known as limited care. This
project, in recognizing the specific administrative, burden of disease and socio-technical issues in India,
would provide a number of the services listed above. It would also establish the institutional structure
that can lead to the provision of some of the other services in the future.
E. Linkages With Other PHN Projects
1.36   The proposed project would complement and consolidate investments made by on-going
projects by providing policy and implementation coordination with other health and FW projects in the
state. The need for this has also emerged as an important lesson of experience. For example, the
strengthening of the first level referral for obstetrics and child care in this project through the provision
of essential clinical and diagnostic services would complement the primary level of services being
provided under Population VII, Population VIl:, Population IX and CSSM projects. In addition, the
actions of these on-going projects with regard to initiating a referral system from the community to the
community hospital level, providing equipment at the first level referral for obstetrics units and defining
the facilities needed for emergency obstetrics care will be further strengthened under this project by
putting in place a referral system that will be able to link up preventive and curative aspects of health
services. These complementary curative actions, which are somewhat higher level interventions than
the preventive and promotive primary care services provided by on-going projects, will improve the
health status of women and children and reduce fertility. Similarly, this project will complement the
AIDS Control and Leprosy Elimination projects by enhancing the physical facilities located in the
states that are providing services under the national programs. The same is true of the complementarity
with the Cataract Blindness project. Where the blindness wards are located in the district hospitals in
the states, the project will upgrade the clinical and diagnostic activities of those facilities.



12
Table 1.2: Linkages with Other Projects in Karnataka, West Bengal and Punjab3
Name of Project        Primary Health Care        Linkages with State Health Systems Development Project II
Objectives
Karnataka: Population V  Enhance service delivery  Child Health: Children identified by primary care services as
Population IX, CSSM    for FW, and strengthen     suffering from severe stages of diarrheal disease, acute respiratory
management at the          infection and nutritional disorders will be referred to first referral
West Bengal: Population  district and block level,  hospitals for appropriate treatment.
vIm, CSSM              and slum areas; support    Maternal Health: The CSSM program has identified by name the
Child Survival program;    First Referral Units (FRUs) for the states, most of which are under
Puniab: Population VII,  enhance Safe              first referral management. Mothers identified  as having life
CSSM                   Motherhood Program.        threatening complications of pregnancy and child birth will be
referred to these FRUs for appropriate treatment.
Technical supervision and training: First referral will improve the
quality of care at the primary level through: (a) visits to PHCs by
Specialists from the hospitals to conduct clinics for patients who need
more skilled care; and (b) training at first referral hospitals for
upgrading clinical and technical skills for PHC and SUBC staff;
provide on-going training for medical and paramedical staff from
PHCs and SUBCs.
Karnataka. West Bengal. Involve states in program  AIDS Cell and Empowered Committee promote coordination between
Puniab: National AIDS    development.             AIDS Program and first referral hospitals. The MIS capability and
Control                                           patient statistics gathered by first referTal hospitals are of vital use to
the AIDS project.
Monitor epidemic;          Surveillance sites or IfV testing facilitues located in first referral
Screen blood; logistical   hospitals to facilitate monitoring of the AIDS epidemic. HIV
support.                   screening to be done within blood banks of first referral hospitals: the
AIDS project provides the kits, training and procedure; first referral
hospitals provide infirastnrcture, staffing and support services. First
referral facilities provide essential logistical support for storage of
equipment, medicines, medical supplies and waste management
Raise public awareness;    The IEC component of the AIDS project targets staff of first referral
develop clinical          hospitals for disseminating infonmation. Selected staff of first referral
management skills in      to be trained by the AIDS project to provide counseling and medical
AIDS and STD control.      needs of AIDS patients.
Karnataka West Beneal: Multidrug therapy,         The health infrastructure of first referral is a channel of treatment and
National Leprosy       disability care and        drug delivery. The staff and hardware provided by the Leprosy project
Eradication            prevention.                will function within first referral infrastructure, providing
physiotherapy facilities, operation theaters (OT) and lab facilities.
Logistics and MIS.         First referral facilities provide storage and support services for the
Leprosy project. MIS and statistical support are also provided.
Karnataka West         Expand service delivery    The Blindness Control Programme, through the District Blindness
Bengal                 and institutional          Control Societies, is financing support services for cataract blindness
Blindness Control      development.               in district hospitals. The Project will provide: support staff who will
Program with Danida                               receive specialized training  under the Blindness programme,
Assistance                                        logistical support and other facilities.  The referral system  will
3 This project will provide additional primary care services not included in the on-going Population & Human
Resources Division portfolio.



13
Table 1.2 (continued)
Name of Project         Primary Health Care      Linkages with State Health Systems Development Project II
Objectives
complement and facilitate the referral of blind patients to district
hospitals for specialist care.
Karnataka: KfW German  Expand and upgrade of     The component will be complementary to the KfW Project and will
assisted Secondary Level  existing secondary level  contribute to reducing regional unbalances, which is the main
Services Project        health care facilities in  objective of the project. This project will also supplement KfW
the four backward        investment by providing training of staff, waste management system,
districts of Gulbarga    referral system, quality assurance, MIS and EEC activities and access
division.                to basic health facilities.
West Bengal: National    Detect TB amongst       Pathological laboratory services will be strengthened under the
Tuberculosis Control    chest symptomatics;      project with both manpower and logistical supporL  These
Program                 vaccinate new born and   laboratories will play a vital role in detection of TB by sputum
infants with B.C.G.;     microscopy and help in establishing a treatment schedule.
sputum diagnosis and
intensive supervised
treatmnent of sputum
positive cases.
F. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.37      The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for India (May 19, 1995; Report No.
14509-IN) supports GOI's efforts to provide an enabling enviromnent for broad-based, efficient private
sector-led growth while accelerating the development of human resources. In the human resource sectors,
the strategy is to enhance access to basic services for the poor and to support well-targeted safety net
programs that protect the most vulnerable groups in Indian society. As part of this approach, the Bank's
strategy in the health sector is to assist India to reduce the level of mortality, morbidity and disability
through a two-pronged approach. The first is to reduce the burden of the most significant diseases
through the support of priority programs; the second is to strengthen the performance of state health
systems to deal with the evolving burden of disease by providing more efficient and effective health care.
The basis of this strategy for the health sector in India is rooted in an on-going dialogue between GOI and
IDA, and is reflected in recent sector work, "India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening
Primary Health Care Services", May 1995.
1.38      IDA investment in the proposed project is justified for the following reasons. First, the project
is consistent with IDA's strategy of strengthening state health systems by optimizing resource use and
avoiding duplication and wastage. Second, the project would strengthen the states' capacity to implement
priority health programs and provide basic health care in rural areas. Third, the project would
consolidate the investments made by a number of other IDA supported projects in the PHN sector, and
add incremental value to the health care system at the state level. Fourth, the project is in line with the
overall IDA strategy of poverty reduction in India through its focus on underprivileged people, especially
women, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Finally, the proposed project would assist Karmataka,
Punjab and West Bengal to establish the foundation for a sustainable and coherent approach to health
care.



14
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Approach
2.1    The proposed project would be an investment operation with substantial policy content. It will
assist the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal to put in place a first referral health
system which would provide vital support and lend credibility to primary health care services and the
rest of the health sector. The proposed project would be an important step in the development of a
coherent, efficient and sustainable health system. The project would also strengthen the organizational
structure of preventive and curative aspects of health care by integrating primary health care services
with first referral hospitals. An adequate and necessary package of health services would be
implemented in each state, based on service norms developed, and consistent with the burden of
disease. Focusing on these key elements would prepare the states to better address priority issues in the
health sector over the next ten years.
B. Project Objectives
2.2    The objectives of the proposed project would be to assist the Governments of Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal to: (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through
policy and institutional development; and (ii) improve the performance of the health care system
through improvements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first referral
level and selective coverage at the primary level to better serve the neediest sections of society. The
ultimate goal of the project would be to improve the health status of the people, especially the poor, by
reducing mortality, morbidity and disability. The achievement of the objectives will be evaluated on the
basis of timely implementation of the policy reform spelled out in the Letters of Health Sector Development
Program of the three state Governments in Annex 2.
2.3    The set of development indicators include the following in each state: (a) an increase in each year
in the share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the total resources (plan
and non-plan) allocated to the health sector, until the year 2002; (b) adequate and timely budget
allocations for recurrent expenditures at the first referral level, in order to meet the resource
requirements under the project's annual operating plan; (c) adequate budget allocations for provision of
drugs and essential supplies; and (d) implementation of a user charge policy. The implementation of
these policy reforms will be monitored during supervision through the review of relevant financial and
budgetary documents of the Goverrnent, and field visits. These would provide monitorable evidence
of policy actions in each state and their sustained adherence to key elements of the policy letter.
2.4   In addition, the achievement of the development objectives would be evaluated on the basis of
activity and efficiency indicators as well as quality, access and effectiveness indicators as shown in Annex 19
on Perfbmnance Indicators. These include a number of indicators to monitor interim progress towards the
achievement of development objectives, summafized below.
2.5    Activity indicators including tumover rate, bed occupancy and average length of stay, which are
derived from bed occupancy, cumulative inpatient days and admissions during a given period of time, would
be measured against the baseline. Efficiency indicators including the following would be measured agamst a



15
baseline: clinical services, such as number of major surgeries and deliveries and their percentages to
admissions during a given time period; diagnostic services, such as number of imaging and electro-medical
tests and their percentages to admissions during a given time period; non-clinical services such as post-
mortems, percentage of post-operative case fatalities and percentage of infection acquired at the hospital; and
emergency service index measures such as emergency outpatient and entry ratios. These efficiency masures
would be evaluated against the baseline, and compared with the best perfonrmng facilities and against
comparable international standards.
2.6    Quality, access and effectiveness indicators including the following vvould be measured: staffing,
equipment and drug norms met at each facility; inpatient and outpatient waiting time; patient satisfaction;
upgradation of clinical, management and equipment maintenance skills; awareness among target group of
services offered; awareness among doctors of how the referral system is expected to function; and funds
recovered from user charges. Some of these would be measured against the baseline, while others will be
measured against the norms that were developed during project preparation.
C. Project Content
I. The Reform Program
2.7    The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal have made a commitment to
improving their health system and establishing the necessary framework to achieve project objectives.
All three states have taken action to strengthen the implementation and supervision capacity of the
implementing agency. Punjab has established the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) which
was passed as an Ordinance on October 20, 1995. The three states have developed streamlined service
norms at district, sub-divisional and community hospitals that would result in substantial increases in
efficiency and effectiveness. The proposed project would build upon the institutional and policy
changes initiated by the states of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal. All three state Governments
have emphasized their commitment to a policy package of health sector reform reflecting key sectoral
development issues for the primary and first referral levels of health care. Letters of Health Sector
Development Program provided by the three states are attached in Annex 2. Details of the Reform
Program are provided below.
(1) Increase Financing and Improve Resource Allocation for the Health Sector by (a) ensuring adequate
budgetary allocations to the health sector; (b) increasing the share of health sector resources to the
primary and secondary levels of health care; and (c) safeguarding the operations and maintenance
component of the health budget to ensure adequate supplies of drugs and essential medical materials
and maintenance of equipment and infrastructure;
(2) Strengthen the Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Sector Analysis and Management by
(a) setting up a Strategic Planning Cell under the Health Secretary to undertake analyses of health
sector issues; and (b) strengthening the implementing agency's role and provide it with authority to
manage essential operational activities including civil works construction and maintenance activities;
(3) Enhance the Role of the Private and Voluntary Sectors in the Delivery and Management of Health
Services by (a) contracting-out selected services; and (b) promoting linkages in health care delivery
with the private and voluntary sectors; and



16
(4) Implement a User Charge Policy by (a) implementing existing user charges more rigorously;
(b) retaining and using revenue collected; and (c) exempting the poor from user charges.
(1) Increase Financing and Improve Resource Allocation for the Health Sector
2.8    Ensuring Adequate Budgetary Allocations to the Health Sector. In FY93, public
expenditure on health and family welfare, as a percentage of State Domestic Product, in Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal was about 1.3%, 0.9% and 1.1% respectively; as a percentage of the total
state revenue budget, the contribution of the health budget was 6.4%, 5.3% and 7.2% in Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal respectively (see Annex 3). These contributions are low when compared to
several Asian countries with similar or even higher levels of income. In Punjab and West Bengal,
where the rate of growth of health expenditure has been below the overall rate of Government
expenditure in some years, continuation of recent trends in health expenditure would not be sufficient to
absorb the incremental costs to meet the basic health care service needs of the population. At
Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal confirmed that they would at
least maintain the share of health sector allocations within the overall budget at the FY94 level.
2.9   Increasing the Share of Health Sector Resources to the Primary and First Referral
Levels. Within the health sector resource allocation is skewed in favor of tertiary care services,
compared to secondary and primary care services. In particular, resource allocations within the hospital
sector have been unfavorable to sub-divisional and rural/community hospitals. Moreover, terdary
hospitals have received a large share of total Plan resources allocated for the hospital sector. First
referral care has, therefore, traditionally suffered from a low level of public funding. Investments at the
first referral level would redress some of this imbalance during the implementation years (see Annex 3).
At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that the
share of both the primary and secondary levels in the total resources (Plan and Non-plan) allocated for
the health sector would be increased each year until the year 2002.
2.10   Safeguarding the Operations and Maintenance Component of the Budgetary Allocations
for the Secondary Health Sector. The non-salary recurrent cost budget of the health sector overall
has been shrinking. With total grants remaining more or less constant, a rising share of salaries has
meant that expenditures on critical inputs other than personnel, such as drugs and essential supplies
have declined in recent years. Since price inflation for these commodities has been greater than
average, there has in fact been a decline in real expenditures on non-salary recurrent costs. Moreover,
during the last two years, even nominal expenditures per bed for drugs and consumables have declined.
At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that
they would allocate adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and maintenance of equipment and
buildings at first referral hospitals in accordance with norms agreed with IDA.
(2) Strengthen the Capacity of the Implementation Agency in Sector Analysis and Management
2.11   Enhancing Capacity for Strategic Planning. A strategic planning cell has been set up in
each state to address strategic planning issues in the health sector and provide management with policy
options. It would undertake operational and policy related research projects, either independently or
through local consultants, and it would organize workshops and seminars. In addition, the strategic



17
planning cell would undertake analyses of a number of other equally important health issues including:
monitoring the role of the private sector and reviewing the suitability of present regulations relating to
the quality of private care provision; analyzing the evolving epidemiological profile in the states; and
undertaking of periodic review of the health manpower supply situation and training needs in each
state. At Negotiations, the Governmnents of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances
that they would maintain the Strategic Planning Cell with adequate staff, resources, and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.
2.12   Strengthening the Implementing Agency's Role in Managing Essential Operational
Activities. A new system of managing essential operational activities, particularly with regard to civil
works construction and maintenance, has been proposed to successfully implement the large scope and
volume of activities under the project. This would be achieved by making the DOHFW in Karnataka
and West Bengal, and the PHSC in Punjab more directly responsible both financially and
administratively to undertake civil works construction and maintenance activities under the project. At
Negotiations, the three state Governments provided assurances that they would take all necessary
actions to ensure that the DOHFW in Karnataka and West Bengal and PHSC in Punjab would provide,
and thereafter maintain authority to manage essential operational activities such as civil works
construction and maintenance activities.
(3) Enhance the Role of the Private and Voluntary Sectors in the Delivery and Management of Health
Services
2.13   Contracting-out Selected Services. Private contractual services are often more efficient and
effective than direct labor. In view of the difficulties of employing government staff, such as slow
recruitment and poor attendance, contracting-out certain services, especially support services, becomes
even more attractive. It has been confirmed that there are no legal barriers inhibiting the use of
contractual services for support functions and that the Contract Labor Regulation and Abolition Act
(1970), which prohibits certain institutions from contracting-out perennial services, exempt hospitals
and health care facilities. At Negotiations, an understanding was reached that in order to cut costs and
increase efficiency, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would review and
implement, as appropriate, private contractual services, especially supporting services.
2.14   Linkages with the Private and NGO Sectors. As noted earlier, the private sector has a
predominant presence in the health sector in the three states, especially in the provision of amnbulatory
care services. The role of the private sector in health care delivery can be further enhanced in the
future, provided that the regulatory framework for ensuring the quality of health care provision can be
appropriately strengthened. The state Governments propose to enhance the participation of the private
and NGO sectors, especially for improving access to primary health care and first referral services in
remote and underdeveloped areas of the Sunderbans in West Bengal and for disadvantaged groups,
particularly SC/STs in Karnataka (see Annex 13). The state Governments are also exploring
opportunities for contracting out the delivery of health care in remote areas to the NGO sector which
has a comparative advantage in improving access to such health services for some disadvantaged
groups. On matters of ensuring the quality of health care provision, state Governments would also play
a more pro-active role, through legislation such as the Nursing Home Registration Act.



18
(4) Implementing a User Charge Policy
2.15   Implementing Existing User Charges More Rigorously. The health financing sector work
indicates that the revenue collected in the three states from user charges varies between 3% and 7% of
the health budget of the states. International experience in developing countries with somewhat higher
per capita income than India, and where the performance of the public health sector has been relatively
better, shows that revenue collected from user charges accounts for about 15-20% of the health budget.
The Governments of the three states recognize the importance of increasing revenue collection through
user charges for the sustainability of the sector. A major problem in increasing revenue is a lack of
enforcement in the collection of existing user charges.
2.16   The system of user charges proposed by each state would be a combination of voluntary
payments and targeting the poor for exemptions. In order to generate revenue and provide services for
those willing to pay, district and sub-divisional hospitals will provide private paying bed facilities and
begin to charge for services in a phased manner after improvements in the quality of basic services and
infrastructure development have been completed. All three states would ensure that at least 20% of all
beds at first referral hospitals would be designated as paying beds. It was agreed that user fees would
be used specifically for non-salary recurrent cost purposes. Enhanced charges would be made effective
after improved services are provided at each facility. The Governments would institute adequate
administrative mechanisms for collecting user fees through District Health Committees and through the
appointment of key staff at the district level who would be responsible for implementing and collecting
user charges more rigorously (see Annex 5). At Negotiations, the Governments of Kamataka, Punjab
and West Bengal provided assurances that the arrangements for maintenance and collection of user
charges would be maintained and user charges would be implemented in a phased manner after
improvements in the quality of basic services and infrastructure development have been completed.
2.17   Retention and Use of Revenue Collected. The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West
Bengal would implement a system that would ensure that funds collected through user charges would
not revert to the state treasury, where they become part of general revenue. To provide incentives for
hospitals to collect user charges, all three states would implement a system that would retain the funds
collected at the institutional level. Funds collected through user charges would be utilized for non-
salary recurrent cost purposes in all three states. At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka and
West Bengal provided assurances that in Karnataka and West Bengal, the system established as a
condition of Negotiations for the retention and reallocation of funds collected at the hospital level, that
would reallocate funds, on the basis of both need and level of revenue collection by the District Health
Committees, would be maintained. In Punjab, regulations on user charges would stipulate that funds
collected would be retained at the point of collection.
2.18   Exempting the Poor from  User Charges. Given the differences in management and
administration, income levels and underlying structure of the economy in the three states, the states
propose to use different criteria for exempting the poor from user charges (see Annex 5). In Karnataka,
the Govermnent proposes to use the existing green/tricolor card system within the Public Distribution
System (PDS) in the state, which is used to provide nutritional support through issue of subsidized
grain, as a basis for exemption from user fees. Green card holders are also entitled to subsidized cloth
and kerosene. All poor families with an annual income level of Rs. 11,850 or below (i.e., the nationally
accepted norm under the JRY program) are entitled to such green cards. The number of green card



19
holders in the state are about 5.3 million compared to the 9 million ration card holders of the PDS
system. Understainding was reached with the Government that it would carefully monitor the green
card system as a basis for exempting the poor from user fees and ensure that leakages are minimized.
In Puniab exemptions to the charges would include state government employees and members of
families holding yellow cards which signify a family income of below Rs. 11,850 based on the JRY
norms. New lists of families eligible for these cards are being put together. Total revenue raised by
DOHFW in 1993/94 was Rs. 25 million or just over I percent of expenditure. According to the
National Sample Survey 1987/88, almost 50 percent of hospitalized cases are in non public hospitals.
The average payment per case in these institutions was Rs. 1,200, indicating a willingness to pay
among the general population. Because of the higher income level in Punjab, the ability and
willingness to pay for services is greater than in the other two states. As a result, there exists
considerable opportunity to increase revenue collection through increased charges and better collection
methods. In West Bengal. the existing system for exempting the poor is based on an 'Indigent
Certificate' from the local elected representative, given to families with an income level below Rs.
1,500 per month. The West Bengal Government proposes to use this criterion rather than the JRY
criterion because the latter does not apply to large portions of the urban population of West Bengal. At
Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that the
agreed mechanism for exempting the poor from user fees would remain in place.
II. Project Investments
2.19   The project in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would finance the activities noted below:
(1) Management Development and Institutional Strengthening by: (a) improving the institutional
framework for policy development; (b) strengthening the management and implementation capacity of
institutions; and (c) developing a surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases and response
capabilities;
(2) improving Service Quality. Access and Effectiveness at the First Referral Level, through:
(a) upgrading community, subdivisional and district hospitals; (b) upgrading effectiveness of clinical
and support services; and (c) improving the referral mechanism and strengthening linkages with the
primary and tertiary health care levels; and
(3) Improving access to Primary Health Care in Remote and Underdeveloped areas by:
(a) upgrading primary health centers and improving access to primary health care services in the
Sunderban area of southern West Bengal; and (b) increasing access to primary health care services
among the SC/ST population in Karnataka.
Component 1. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening (US$26.6 million. 7% of
base costs)
2.20   Improving the Institutional Framework for Policy Development. Sectoral capacity for
development of policy would be strengthened in each state through the creation of a strategic planning
cell headed by a person of the rank of a Joint Secretary who would report directly to the Secretary,
DOHFW in each state. The planning cell would monitor the critical issues in the health sector in the
state by commissioning studies, workshops and seminars and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate



20
these activities. As noted earlier, some of the issues would include monitoring the development of the
private health sector including private and social insurance, reviewing the suitability of present
regulations relating to the quality of private care provision, evaluating the burden of disease and cost-
effectiveness of public health interventions and reviewing medical manpower. In addition, the strategic
planning cell in each state would review implementation of cost recovery mechanisms and sectoral
resource allocation patterns. Under this sub-component the project would finance furniture, vehicles,
equipment including computers, local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultants,
operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a decreasing basis.
2.21   Strengthening  Management and  Implementation  Capacity.   Project management
arrangements in the three states have several common elements and some differences. Project
management arrangements have taken into account the existing organizational set-up and
implementation capacity of DOHFW, the health programs currently being implemented by the
Department and the overall set-up of public administration in the state, especially with regard to the
nature of decentralized administration in each state. In Karnataka and West Bengal, the project will be
managed and irnplemented by DOHFW, which will be strengthened under the project to address
increased investment at the primary and secondary levels of health care under the project. In Punjab,
the project will be managed and implemented by the PHSC, which was passed as an Ordinance on
October 20, 1995. The PHSC is an autonomous agency under the aegis of DOHFW. The aim of the
PHSC is to establish, expand, improve and administer medical care at the secondary or first referral
level in Punjab (see Annex 6 on Project Management). The project would also provide support to the
PHSC for the promotion of health care activities in Punjab, through private and voluntary
organizations, the details of which would be worked out during implementation. In addition, the
project would provide physical facilities in Karnataka and West Bengal to consolidate, in one location,
project related activities that are currently dispersed across Bangalore and Calcutta; and upgrade the
office facilities of the PHSC and DOHFW in Punjab. At Negotiations, the Government of Punjab and
the PHSC provided assurances that they would take all measures necessary to: (i) enable PHSC to
carry out its part of the project; and (ii) the PHSC would undertake health care activities under the
project at the secondary level in accordance with service delivery norms acceptable to the Association,
and in carrying out other health care activities would ensure that the ability of PHSC to perform its
obligations under the Agreement would not be materially and adversely affected.
2.22   Management arrangements in each state would be evaluated from time to time to see whether
the management system is producing the best results. In addition, a review of overall state finances as
well as the financial situation of the health sector would be undertaken, and, if necessary, would form
the basis of additional measures to achieve financial sustainability of the project. At Negotiations, the
Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that not later than June 30,
1999, they would carry out, jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed mid-term review of project progress
including management and financial reviews, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with IDA,
and thereafter implement their recommendations.
2.23   Staff strength at the Head Office to undertake increased responsibilities and perform some new
functions would be enhanced. Headquarters staff would be increased to meet the increased workload
and reorient the structure of DOHFW in Karnataka and West Bengal and the PHSC in Punjab to meet
their new challenges. Specific areas targeted for strengthening include the training and referral unit, the
finance and audit unit, the Office of the Director (General) and the Office of the Director, (Service



21
Delivery). Parallel improvements and strengthening of the management and implementation capacity at
the hospital level would be undertaken. These actions would facilitate systems improvement, wider
access and improved data collection and utilization for planning and policy making, problem solving
and monitoring at all levels of management, including the facility level. In all the states, at the hospital
level, both information collection and management are fairly rudimentary. The project would:
(i) enhance and extend the computerized system through the provision of hardware and software, and
consultancy support; (ii) establish trained and equipped information cells at HQ and district levels;
(iii) train all management staff in appropriate record keeping; and (iv) introduce a completely revised
medical record system for in-patients and diagnostic services. Under this sub-component the project
would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture, other equipment including computers,
vehicles, other supplies, MIS/IEC materials, studies, workshops, local training, fellowships and
operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a decreasing basis. At Negotiations, the
Governments of Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that DOHFW in Karnataka
and West Bengal and PHSC in Punjab would appoint or engage additional headquarters personnel and
all other personnel to be hired under the project in accordance with a schedule agreed with IDA.
2.24   Developing Surveillance Capacity for Major Communicable Diseases. The surveillance
system for major communicable diseases proposed under the project would cover the identification of
cases through education of health workers and community involvement; indexing of cases or isolation
of cases and treatmnent; and tracing of contacts for monitoring and evaluation. In the long-term,
however, the surveillance system would need to be expanded to include preventive examination among
those most likely to be infected and carrying out immunization; and an enhanced response capability in
case of outbreak or epidemric. This project would fill some of the gaps in the national disease programs
by linking the three elements noted above and providing treatment at the primary and secondary levels.
2.25   Each state has identified a list of communicable diseases for routine surveillance. Explicit
criteria for monitoring these communicable diseases would be set to avoid any ambiguity in reporting
by different agencies. Emphasis has been put on a community-based system for early detection and
reporting and the full participation of local level institutions working at the village or community will
be necessary to make the system more effective. For example in West Bengal, stamp printed red cards
would be introduced for quick transmission of information on communicable diseases, and would
contain information such as name, age, sex, address, date of onset, immunization status, date of death
(if any) of every patient with or died from a specific communicable disease. The red card would be
used in out-patient departments and entry points of in-patient cases in all health and medical units of
the state. As soon as a case is detected the card will be filled out and posted to the district
epidemiological cell which would be provided with the facility under the project to sort, analyze and
report such incidences to the appropriate authority for quick follow up action. It will also be important
to include the support of private medical practitioners and private institutions through workshops as
well as training programs. The implementation of the health management information system (HMIS)
will improve tracing of contacts as well as provide information on other diseases that are slated to be
included under HMIS activities. To improve the system, quick containment measures have been
developed even in the case of a single incidence to prevent possible outbreak of a specific disease
identified in the priority list. In the case of outbreak/epidemic daily monitoring would be required.
Under this subcomponent, the project would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture,
other equipment and supplies, MIS/IEC materials, local training, operational expenses and salaries of
incremental staff on a declining basis.



22
Component 2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District. Subdivisional and
Community/Rural Hospitals (US$308.2 million. 86% of Base Costs)
2.26   Renovating/Extending  District, Subdivisional and  Community/Rural Hospitals. In
Karnataka, 21 district, 107 subdivisional and 74 community hospitals would be renovated/extended; in
Punjab, 13 district, 46 subdivisional, 91 community, one children's and one maternity hospitals would
be renovated/extended; in West Bengal, 15 district, 60 subdivisional and 95 rural hospitals would be
renovated/extended. There would not be any new hospitals built under the project. The state
Govemrnments have confirmed that no new sites will be acquired for upgrading facilities and that all
premises slated for renovation/extension have existing land. In Kamataka, 3,832 new beds will be
added to the existing bed strength of 14,858 at first referral facilities; in Punjab, about 2,140 new beds
will be added to the existing bed strength of 5,822 at first referral facilities; and in West Bengal, no
additional beds are proposed to the existing 21,723 operational beds in these facilities which a current
capacity for only 19,964 beds. In West Bengal, the project would create supporting infrastructure for
the overcrowded facilities to adequately accommodate the 21,723 beds that are already operating but at
a low level. The proposed increase in bed strength at the secondary level in Kamataka and Punjab are
justified on the basis of: (i) Indian Planning Commission norms of I bed per 1,000 population overall,
of which 70% are recommended at the secondary level; and (ii) the epidemiological approach, which is
based on the total number of beds required to address the burden of disease at the state level. Both
approaches suggest a greater increase in bed strength in each state than is proposed under the project.
Staff quarters would also be built in all three states in areas where housing is a problem for staff.
Under this sub-component, the project would finance civil works, professional services, equipment,
building maintenance and operational expenses.
2.27   Upgrading the Effectiveness of Clinical and Support Services and Quality of Services at
District, Subdivisional and Community/Rural Hospitals. Streamlined norms and standards for
clinical and support services would be applied at the first referral hospitals. Staffing norms conforming
to services provided at each type of facility would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements
in the quality of clinical care would be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program
and the capacity of support services would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas
would be enhanced through the provision of training to improve the quality and range of services.
Management training for professional cadres and on-going in-service training for clinical and technical
cadres would also be strengthened. This would facilitate the implementation of the quality improvement
strategy of the project, through which new responsibilities would be provided. It is expected that
decision-making would be decentralized down to the appropriate management level. Under this sub-
component the project would finance minor civil works, professional services, furniture, medical and
other equipment, medical laboratory and other supplies, medicines, vehicles, MIS/IEC materials, local
training, studies, workshops, fellowships, consultants, equipment and building maintenance,
operational expenses and salaries of additional staff on a decreasing basis. At Negotiations, the
Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that they would adopt,
within six months of upgrading each facility, staffing and technical norms at district, subdivisional and
community/rural hospitals, as agreed with IDA, to ensure the quality of services.
2.28   At the first referral level, the focus of improving management effectiveness would be on
strengthening service delivery. The first referral level would be able to better manage its resources,



23
deliver clinical services effectively, and hospitals will be able to play a more important role within the
district health systems. DOHFW in West Bengal and Karnataka and the PHSC in Punjab would have
greater freedom of action with regard to recruitment of staff and revenue raising; establish clarity of
goals, objectives and procedures; create opportunities for contracting out services, especially support
services; improve medical record-keeping, health management information systems (HMIS) and related
evaluation and monitoring capacities; provide management training; improve capacity for equipment
management, especially state-wide maintenance services by enhancing the capacity for equipment
maintenance and training. To facilitate an early start to this process, the states have taken the
following action: in Karnataka, the Project Governing Board, Steering Committee and Engineering
Wing have been established, and key staff have been approved or hired; in Punjab, key staff, including
the Managing Director of the PHSC, have been appointed; and in West Bengal, key staff, including
Project Director, have been hired. They have also provided a schedule for the hiring of key staff
(Annex 6).
2.29   There is currently no acute shortage of professional staff overall, but there is a shortage of
some medical specialties and nurses. The first step would be to improve recruitment and prompt filling
of job vacancies by improving recruitment procedures. An understanding was reached with the states
that the implementing agencies would have the authority to: (i) advertise, appoint, promote and transfer
staff internally; (ii) post staff as needed, especially in tribal areas; (iii) introduce appropriate incentives
to retain staff in remote areas including: provision of staff quarters, bonus at the end of a specified
period of posting, educational allowance for children of staff posted in remote and tribal areas,
additional leave eligibility and extra credit for doctors and other staff for post-graduate qualification
admission and for fellowships; and (iv) relax service rules as necessary to maintain service when
appropriately qualified staff are unavailable.
2.30   Due to the scope of the civil works component and the need to ensure adequate maintenance of
assets as a result, DOHFW  in Karnataka and West Bengal and the PHSC in Punjab would be
strengthened by providing them with enhanced management and supervision responsibilities of essential
operational activities, including construction and maintenance activities, in collaboration with local
Government. An Engineering Wing in the implementing agency in each state would be set up at the
state and district levels, adequate funds would be provided and the flow of these funds would be
channeled through the implementing agency. In addition, a Maintenance Cell will be established in
each large hospital, to manage day-to-day emergent maintenance works.  At Negotiations, the
Governments of Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that they would provide
funds, satisfactory to the Association, annually for the maintenance of previously existing equipment in
health facilities supported under the project.
2.31   Improving Referral System. The referral system in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal, as
in the rest of India, does not function well (see Annex 8). Patients perceive the lower level facilities as
providing lower quality of services. As a result, the lower tiers are underutilized since patients directly
proceed to higher level hospitals for minor illnesses, thereby overloading the higher level institutions.
The beneficiary assessment study in West Bengal found that about 2% of the patients at first referral
facilities were referred from PHCs. It is estimated that a third of all cases which are currently treated
at tertiary facilities could be treated, and at lower costs, at first referral facilities if those facilities
received adequate inputs.



24
2.32   The project would seek to ensure that a much higher proportion of patients coming to first
referral hospitals had been seen at PHCs and referred upwards. Likewise, for those patients going to
tertiary hospitals, the project would implement several measures to strengthen the referral system and
improve the quality of care at the first referral level. Special attention would also be given to
establishing mechanisms to improve access for remote and disadvantaged groups and tribal
communities. The referral system would also be strengthened by establishing an incentive system with
differentiated user fees for users and non-users and allowing patients to by-pass waiting lines when
they carry a referral slip. Under this sub-component the project would finance vehicles (purchase, hire
and maintenance), other supplies, MIS and IEC materials, local training, consultants, fellowships,
workshops and operational expenses. At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and
West Bengal provided assurances that they would strengthen the referral system between the primary,
secondary and tertiary levels by December 31, 1996, by: (i) issuing appropriate directives to hospitals
to strengthen the management of the referral system; (ii) establish and thereafter maintain and
implement appropriate referral protocols and clinical management protocols; and (iii) establish and
thereafter maintain and implement an appropriate incentive system for patients who use the system.
Component 3. Improving Access to Primary Health Care in Remote and Underdeveloped Areas
(US$ 24.3 million. 7% of base costs)
2.33   Upgrading of Primary Health Centers in the Sunderban Area of West Bengal. The
Sundarban area in southem West Bengal, with a population of about 3.1 million people is among the
poorest regions in the state with a predominance of small and marginal farmers -- 40% of the
population belong to SC/STs. The 54 islands, interspersed with bodies of water, are covered with
forests and swamps. They are intersected from north to south by wide tidal rivers and estuaries and
from east to west by narrow tidal creeks. Transport and communication networks are inadequate in
this hostile geographical and topographical location. Metalled roads comprise about 10% of the total
road surface area. Where available, transport is painfully slow and people have to travel in an
assortment of country boats, cycle-rickshaws and buses to reach their destinations. There are no major
hospitals in the region and travel time is at least eight hours from the closest point by public transport
to Calcutta and its overcrowded health facilities. The remoteness of the region, the lack of transport,
the poverty of the people and lack of access to health facilities have contributed to the health problems
of the people in the Sundarban Areas. It is, therefore, proposed that the project would upgrade all the
28 PHCs and 8 block PHCs in the Sunderban area. In addition, three floating medical units will be set
up to deliver effective health care in the riverine areas and would be supported by wireless connection.
A wireless commnunication system will also link up the 36 PHCs and block PHCs with the gram
panchayat office. Under this subcomponent, the project will finance civil works, professional services,
furniture, riverine vehicles, medical and other equipment, medical and laboratory supplies, medicines,
other supplies, MIS/IEC materials, local training, studies, workshops and operational expenses.
2.34   Increasing Access to Primary Care Services Among SC/ST Population in Karnataka. A
system of annual health check-ups is proposed under the project for the SC/ST population of
Karnataka, which account for nearly 20% of the population. The medical check-ups will be made
available in health check-up camps to be organized at the headquarters of every auxiliary nurse
midwife (ANM). At the beginning of each year, the district health and family welfare worker would
draw up a calendar for every PHC indicating the date, time and place at which health check-up teams
would visit the subcenter. Prior to the date for which health check-up is fixed in a particular village, the



25
ANM and the male health worker would make house-to-house contact with each SC/ST household to
ensure maximum attendance. This would also be a good venue for IEC activities relating to the
dissemination of general public health related issues. The health-check up team would consist of a
medical officer of the PHC, lady medical officer drafted for the purpose from a government hospitaL
laboratory technician, lady health visitor, ANM and a paramedical staff. Much of the work will be
done at the level of the ANM, who will do the early screening. The PHC medical officer will review a
smaller number of more complex cases. Referral to first referral hospitals will follow the system set up
under the referral system for the general population. A record of health check-ups will be maintained in
a master register and each individual would be issued a health check-up card free of cost. These camps
will also provide family planning services. The novelty of this program is that it will mobilize the PHC
staff in a manner consistent with the delivery of primary care services originally envisaged under the
NHP. The subcomponent will finance furniture medical and laboratory supplies, medicines, other
supplies, MIS/IEC materials, local training operational expenses and salaries of additional staff on a
decreasing basis.



26
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
3.1     The total cost of the project is estimated at about Rs. 16,691.4 million or US$416.7 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties estimated at US$22.2 million equivalent. The project costs in
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would be US$136.4 million, US$106.1 million and US$174.2
million respectively.   IDA  would finance about US$350.0 million or about 88.7 percent of total
project costs net of taxes; the balance of US$66.7 million would be financed by the Governments of the
three project states, Karnataka (US$25.0 million), Punjab (US$16.4 million) and West Bengal
(US$25.3 million). The direct and indirect foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$94.6 million. The
project would finance civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, medical and laboratory supplies,
medicines, other supplies, MIS/IEC supplies, professional services, training, studies and evaluations,
workshops, and operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a declining basis. Details of
cost estimates, financing plan, procurement arrangements and disbursements plans are shown in the
various annexes of the SAR.
3.2     The breakdown of project costs by component and categories of expenditure for the project is
summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2.
Table 3.1: Cost By Component
mm"p 1MlBei0               SW= MllG)           S     S TOW
C-_                                                                         F*u    am
Lam   Fomig      TOl    Loal  PoG   TOtal  E            Co
1. Ma.go Dop- A              Sb_O.thmi.
la-l ImproelniibammwlFramworkfcrPolicyDelp   58.3    16.4    74.7       1.7     .5    2.1    22%       1%
Ib-S-enph  MagsmeA& plmPkm-i _ CaPy          667.5   105.4    772.9    19.2    3.0   22.2    14%       6%
Ic - Dcvebp SurvsiIl Coprinty                         sI=      22      LA       A             11 in    2s
Subtotal    789.6   137.1   926.7    22.7     3.9   26.6    15%      7%
L Improve Se&vkm Quasiy, A   ad Zfosdho..
2a - Renovaw tAE dC Cm ty.AreaADiim Hapihs    4,065.9   740.1  4.126.7   117.4    21.3  131.7    39%   0%
2b-UpgradeClinic  hcE                      3.982.7  1,431.3  5.414.5   114.4    41.1  155.6    43%     0%
2c - Impaimo Refrral doct                           28.Lm      42       La      U     l;2      4i      ox
Suboa    8,271.4  2,452.6  10.724.0   237.7    70.5  308.2    86%    0%
3  -lmpoo.Axn to Oak  SSu                    611.0   233.8    s44.9    17.6    6.7   24.3    7%        0%
Total BASELE COSTS                           9,672.1  2,823.5  12,495.6   277.9    31.1  359.1   100%   0%
fyei C    _ soasod 390.5   279.6  1.170.1    25.6    8.0   33.6    9%                                 0%
Prim Candmpwiu                             2,340.9   684.9  3,025.7    11.5     5.4   24.0    7%       0%
Total PROJECr COSls                         12.903.5  3,798.0  16,691.4   322.1    94.6  416.7   116%   0%



27
Table 3.2: Cost by Categories of Expenditures
(Rupee MU&=)                 (USS Millon)           %      % Total
Foreign    Rafe
Local  Foe         Tot      Local  Foreign    Total   Exham    Ceam
Investment Costa
Civil Works (Renovation)                       1,131.1    199.6   1,330.7    32.5      5.7    38.2      15%      11%
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)         2,737.3   483.0   3.220.3    78.7       13.9    92.5      15%     26%
Professional Services                           356.1     89.0    445.1      10.2      2.6    12.8    20%        4%
Furniture                                       304.7     33.9    338.5       8.8      1.0     9.7      10%      3%
Major Medical Equipment                         562.7    844.1   1,406.8    16.2    24.3    40.4       60%       11%
Minor Medical Equipment                          43.3     10.S      54.2      1.2      .3      1.6    20%         -
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs               81.0    20.3      101.3      2.3      .6      2.9     20%       1%
Equipment (Other)                               763.1    190.8    953.8    21.9        5.5    27.4     20%       8%
Vehicles                                        109.9   329.8    439.7        3.2      9.5    12.6    75%        4%
Medical Lab Supplies                            127.9    32.0    159.9        3.7      .9      4.6     20%       1%
Medicines                                       401.5    4015      803.0    11.5    11.5    23.1       50%       6%
Other Supplies                                  550.3        -     550.3     15.8        -    15.8       -       4%
MIS/IEC Materials                               156.2    52.1      208.3      4.5      1.5     6.0     25%       2%
Local Training                                  220.5        -     220.5      6.3        -     6.3       -       2%
Studies                                          66.7        -      66.7      1.9        -     1.9       -       1%
Fellowships                                       6.2     55.6      61.8      .2       1.6     1.8     90%        -
Workshops                                        51.5        -      51.5      1.5        -     1.5       -
Consultants                                      12.4        -      12.4      .4         -      .4
NGO's                                            18.7        -      18.7      .5         -      .5       -        -
Total Investmeent Costs                         7,701.0  2,742.4  10,443.4   221.3    78.8   300.1       26%      84%
Kecurrent Coats
Salaries of Additional Staff                  1.225.2        -   1,225.2    35.2         -    35.2       -      10%
Operational Expenses                            473.5     52.6    526.1      13.6      1.5    15.1     10%       4%
Building Maintenance                             69.4      7.7      77.1      2.0      .2      2.2     10%       1%
Surgical Pack Maintenance                         2.9      .S        3.1      .1       .0       .1      5%
Vehicle Maintenance                              15.6      1.7      17.4      .4       .0       .5    10%
Equipment Maintenance                           170.2     18.9    189.1       4.9      .5      5.4     10%       2%
Furniture Maintenance                            14.3        -      14.3      .4        -       .4       -        -
TotalRecurrentCoets                             1,971.1     81.1   2,052.2    56.6       2.3    59.0      4%      16%
Total BASELINE COSTS                              9,672.1  2,8235   12,495.6   277.9    81.1   359.1       23%     100%
Physical Contingencies                          890.5   279.6   1,170.1      25.6      8.0    33.6     24%       9%
Price Contingencies                           2,340.9   684.9   3,025.7      18.5      5.4    24.0     23%       7%
Total PROJECT COSTS                              12,903.5  3,788.0  16,691.4   322.1    94.6   416.7       23%     116%



28
3.3    Basis of Cost Estimates. Estimated costs for civil works are based on current unit costs for
construction which vary from US$135 per square meter in Karnataka and Punjab to US$165 per
square meter in West Bengal of gross floor area of construction. The higher unit costs in West Bengal
are due to the relative scarcity of building material in the state. These costs are comparable to IDA-
assisted construction in India. Costs of professional services for design reflect the scale of fees
established for similar services provided by local architectural consulting firms. Costs for supervision
of construction reflect the standard ongoing charges in the private sector. Cost estimates for furniture,
medical equipment, vehicles and medical supplies are product of lists developed by DOHFW, and
include import duties and taxes. Costs of other supplies are based on the state estimates and reflect
current prices. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales
including standard allowances for social and other benefits applicable in each project State.
3.4    Customs Duties and Taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs duties and taxes. The
estimated cost of the project includes import duties and taxes estimated at about US$22.2 million
equivalent.
3.5    Contingency Allowances. Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$33.6
million) estimated at 10% of all physical components and at 5% for technical assistance, training and
salaries. The estimated costs of the project also include price contingencies (US$24.0 million) to cover
expected price escalation at the following rates. For civil works, goods, salaries, technical assistance
and operation and maintenance - foreign costs: 4.4% in FY96, 1.8% in FY97 and FY98, 2.2% in
FY99, 2.3% in FY00 and FY01, and 2.4% in FY02; local costs: 8.7% in FY96, 8.2% in FY97, and
7.5% in FY98, 6.5% in FY99, 6.0% in FY00 through FY02.
3.6    Foreign Exchange Component. The estimated foreign exchange component of US$94.6
million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as follows: (a) civil works
15%; (b) professional services 20%; (c) furniture 10%; (d) equipment 60%; (e) locally manufactured
vehicles 12%; (f) imported vehicles 90%; (g) medical laboratory supplies 20%; (h) medicine 50%; (i)
MIS and IEC materials 25%; (j) foreign fellowships 90%; (k) operation and maintenance, and
maintenance for buildings and equipment 10%.
B. Financing Plan
3.7    The estimated total project cost of US$416.7 million equivalent would be financed by an IDA
Credit of US$350.0 million equivalent, which would cover about 88.7 percent of the project costs net
of taxes. The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would finance the remaining costs
of US$44.5 million plus all taxes (US$22.2 million).
3.8    The credit would be made available to GOI on standard terms and conditions and on-lent to the
Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal under standard arrangements for development
assistance to the states; and Punjab would further transfer the funds to PHSC as a grant. Under current
GOI policies and regulations, on-lending to Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal takes the form of 30%
grant/70% loan at 12% interest per annum over 20 years. GOI would assume foreign exchange risk.
At Negotiations, an understanding was reached with GOI that it would release about three month's
anticipated project expenditures in advance to the project states (in accordance with the amounts
established in the Annual Plans), and that upon receipt of funds from GOI, the Governments of



29
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would transfer all such funds, together with its quarterly
counterpart contributions, immediately to the project accounts of DOHFW in Karnataka and West
Bengal and the DOHFW/PHSC in Punjab.
C. Procurement Arrangements
3.9    Table 3.3 summarizes the project items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of
procurement. Project-related procurement for goods, works and services would follow procedures
acceptable to IDA using ICB and NCB documents acceptable to the Association. Project-financed
consultants would be recruited according to Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, and medical laboratory supplies would be bulked to
the extent possible and any individual contract exceeding US$200,000 equivalent would be procured
under ICB procedures. This is also true for vehicles including riverine vehicles, except for those
needed for immediate use costing up to an aggregate of US$300,000 only, which may be procured
through national shopping or Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D), New Delhi
rate contract. Shopping under the project would include international shopping procedures, based on
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, or
national shopping procedures with solicitation of price quotations from at least three suppliers, all in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3.10    Civil Works (US$152.2 million). The civil works component entails no new hospital
construction but does involve large and small scale renovations and extensions to 557 hospitals over
the five year life of the project. An estimated 475 contracts (costing US$134.2 million) will be carried
out through national competitive bidding. These works average between US$300,000 and US$500,000
and would not be of any interest to foreign bidders and would be procured under NCB procedures.
Contracts for the remaining works estimated to cost about US$ 45,000 equivalent or less per contract
at about 400 sites up to an aggregate not exceeding US$18.0 million scattered and in remote areas
shall be procured, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association: (i) through Force
Account limited to US$10,000,000; (ii) by direct contracting; or (iii) under quotations solicited from at
least three qualified contractors.
3.11   Equipment (US$84.5 million). Procurement of most of the equipment would be phased on an
annual basis in accordance with the requirements of the project activities. Contracts valued at over
US$200,000 would be procured through ICB for an amount equal to US$54.9 million. Contracts
valued at US$200,000 or less would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA for an
amount not exceeding US$12.7 million. Purchases totaling US$50,000 or less, and not exceeding in
aggregate US$12.7 million and US$4.2 million equivalent, may respectively be awarded on the basis of
national and international shopping based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
(a) three suppliers from two eligible countries for international shopping and (b) three national
suppliers for national shopping. An estimated 200 contracts will be carried out through ICB and NCB,
ranging from over US$200,000 to US$750,000 per contract. Phasing of the procurement of equipment
will be closely sequenced with the civil works program. Details on the type of equipment and
packaging are available as working papers.
3.12   Vehicles (US$14.6 Million) would be procured during the first two years of the project
through ICB for an amount not exceeding US$14.3 million. To facilitate project start-up activities



30
procurement of vehicles up to an aggregate of US$300,000 will be undertaken by the three states under
national shopping procedures or DGS&D rate contracts. An estimated 24 contracts would be carried
out through ICB, ranging from US$200,000 to US$800,000 per contract.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(Total Costs in US$ Millions)
Procurieai Nitibod
l11aiaa       Nada_l
CmIZ_u    Cc-        .        Iatuaada        L4Xal       Otbh
liddlag      Ild*.g          Sh 5Shpping    Mededi /a               Toed
CIrIL WORKS
Civil Works                                             134.2   /b                                 18.0        152.2
(114.1)                                    (15.3)     (129.4)
GOODS
Furniture                                                .5      /c                    2.S                     11.4
(7.7)                         (2-6)                   (10.2)
Equipmnc                                   54.9         12.7             4.2           12.7         -          84.5
(49.4)       (11.4)           (3.8)        (11.4)                   (76.0)
Vehicles                                   14.3           -                -           0.3          -          14.6
(12.9)                                      (0.3)                  (13.1)
Medical Lab Supplies                        -           2.7               0.4          2.3          -          5.4
(2.4)           (0.3)         (2-1)                   (4.9)
Medicines                                   -           22.0              1.5          3.7          -          27.2
(19.8)           (1.3)         (3.3)                  (24.5)
OtherSupplies                                           7.4                            11.1                    18.5
(6-.)                         (10.0)                  (16.7)
MIS/IEC Materials                           -           5.2                            1.7                     6.9
(4.7)                         (1.6)                   (6.2)
CONSULTANCIES
Projecs Preparation & implementation (incl
Training. Workshops. Fellowships)                                          -            -          10.7        10.7
(10.7)      (10.7)
losiitional Development (includes Local
CotsultnL, Studies, Professional Services
Fces. NGO Fees)                                                            -            -          1.1       tS.t
(16.3)     (16.3)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff                              -                -            -          39.3        39.3
(25.5)      (25.5)
Opertional Ex,estiuees                      -            .p-                           17.8         -          17.8
(11.1)                 (11.1)
Building Maintenance                        .                     -              -                 3.1         3.1
(1.7)      (1.7)
Equpem Maintenanc-                                                                                 7.0         7.0
(3.8)       (3.8)
Total                                         69.2         192.7             6.1          52.5        96.2        4t6.7
(62.3)      (166.8)           (5-5)        (42.3)       (73.3)     (350.0)
Notes:
In 'Other' methods indude Force Account, Direct Contacting and Consulting Services
/b Figures in parenthesis are the repectve amounts financed by IDA
/c Figures may not apear to add exactly due to rounding



31
3.13   Furniture (US$11.4 million), Laboratory Supplies (US$5.4 million) MIS/IEC Materials
(US$6.9 million) and Other Supplies (US$18.5 million) would be purchased as follows. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$17.6 million (furniture -
US$2.8 million, medical laboratory supplies - US$2.3 million, MIS/IEC materials US$1.7 million and
other supplies US$1 1.1 million) may be awarded on the basis of national shopping with solicitation of
price quotations from at least three suppliers. This is again based on the fact that this amount covers
purchases by 557 hospitals over a period of five years. Contracts valued at US$50,000 equivalent or
more would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA for an amount not
exceeding US$23.8 million (furniture - US$8.5 million, medical laboratory supplies - US$2.7 million,
MIS/IEC materials - US$5.2 million and other supplies - US$7.4 million). Contract for medical
laboratory supply estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, not to exceed an aggregate
amount of US$0.4 million equivalent will be awarded under international shopping procedures, based
on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different eligible
countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3.14   Medicines (US$27.2 million) would be purchased by each of the 557 hospitals as well as by
DOHFW in Karnataka and West Bengal and the Health Systems Corporation in Punjab several times
per year over the five year life of the project. Bulking requirements would not always be feasible due
to shelf life of the medicines. As a result, the individual purchases would be small and not likely to
attract foreign bidders. Accordingly, contracts valued at US$50,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA for an amount not exceeding US$22.0
million. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$5.2
million may be awarded on the basis of National and International Shopping procedures based on
comparing price quotations obtained from at least: (a) three suppliers for national shopping; (b) three
suppliers from two different eligible countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
3.15   Studies and Consultancy Contracts (US$2.9 million) and Professional Services (US$15.2
million). Professional services will be used mainly for architectural and engineering services which will
be provided from within the country. Consultants required under the project will be hired following
procedures prescribed in "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by Worla Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency"; August, 1981. Documents used for inviting proposals, terms of reference
for all consultancies and single-source contracts will be subject to prior review for all contracts valued
at US$100,000 or more awarded to firms and US$50,000 or more to be awarded to individuals. The
professional services entail approximately 500 contracts valued from about US$15,000 to US$60,000;
this many contracts would not be suitable for international consulting firms. These contracts will
include topographical surveys, soil tests, architectural and engineering fees, and supervision of
construction.
3.16   Fellowship, Training, and Workshops (US$10.7 million). This category includes expenses
related to training of about 22,663 medical professionals over the life of the project in respect of
seminars, workshops, travel and subsistence allowances.
3.17   Equipment Maintenance (US$7.0 million) and Building Maintenance (US$3.1 million).
Maintenance costs for vehicles, medical and other equipment items estimated to cost less than
US$5,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$7.0 million would be procured from local commercial
suppliers of such services: (i) through direct contracting; or (ii) under quotations solicited from at least



32
three suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Maintenance of buildings and
building equipment (funded by the project), estimated to cost US$5,000 equivalent or less per contract
upto an aggregate of US$3.1 million, shall be carried out by other procedures where such arrangements
already exist or by obtaining three quotations from local contractors in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
3.18  IDA Review. Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. All procurement under contracts
costing US$300,000 equivalent or more for civil works and US$200,000 equivalent or more for goods
would be subject to prior review; the rest would be subject to post review. All other contracts would be
subject to random post review in the field by visiting missions. Other contracts for civil works and
goods would be subject to IDA review after contract award. Contracts for the hiring of consulting firm
costing US$100,000 equivalent or more and contracts for hiring individual consultant costing
US$50,000 equivalent or more, would be subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Approximately
60% of the value of the IDA Credit would require prior review.
D. Disbursement Profile
3.19   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over five and a half years. This is shorter by 18
months than the standard profile for PHR projects in India. The project is expected to be completed on
September 30, 2001 and the credit closed on March 31, 2002. Table 3.4 below shows forecasts of
expenditures and disbursements.
Table 3.4: Estimated Expenditures and Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA FY            FY97      FY98    FY99       FY2000    FY01       FY02
Annual            45.6      88.1     111.2      98.2      66.2       7.4
Expenditures
Annual            24.5      57.9      85.9      87.6      67.2      26.9
Disbursement                                          _     _
Cumulative        45.6      133.7    244.9     343.1     409.3      416.7
Expenditures
Cumulative        24.5      82.4    168.3      255.9     323.1      350.0
Disbursement   I_I_I                                   I         I___
3.20   Disbursement Percentages and Required Documentation.  The IDA Credit would be
disbursed against 85% of expenditures on civil works: 100% on professional services, consultants and
fellowships; 100 percent of CIF and ex-factory costs or 80% of other local expenditure on furniture,
equipment, vehicles, medicines and materials, MIS and EEC materials; and 65% of salaries of
incremental staff and other recurrent costs on a declining basis during the project period starting with



33
90% until December 31, 1998, 75% until December 31, 2000 .:rd 40% thereafter. Disbursements for
civil works over US$300,000 equivalent per contract, goods over US$200,000 equivalent per contract,
consulting firm contracts over US$100,000 and individual consultants over US$50,000 equivalent
would be fully documented and all other expenditures would be disbursed on the basis of statement of
expenditures. Each state Government would maintain complete records of funds disbursed, including
certificates of completion signed by the District Executive Engineer, the Managing Director of Punjab
Health Systems Corporation and the Project Coordinators in Karnataka and West Bengal.
3.21   Special Account and Central Government Advance to the State. In order to accelerate
disbursements in respect of IDA's share of expenditures prefinanced by GOI and the state
Governments, and to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special
Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India in the amount of US$17.0 million
equivalent to cover four months of estimated disbursements through the Special Account.
3.22   Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing for project preparation in the amount of US$10
million, about 2.8 percent of the proposed credit, is provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred in
implementing appraised project activities after May 1, 1995. Retroactive financing in support of
project preparation would support initial staff appointments, technical survey of the existing hospitals
under the project including topographical site surveys and soil tests, preparation of preliminary designs,
and initial construction activities. Procurement arrangements were reviewed and found appropriate.
E. Project Implementation
3.23  In Karnataka and West Bengal, the project will be managed and implemented by DOHFW. In
Punjab, the project will be managed and implemented by the Punjab Health Systems Corporation
(PHSC). Lists of staff or Committee Members, organograms for each state, and the functional levels of
project management in each state are shown in Annex 6.
3.24  In all three states, a Project Governing Board (PGB)/ Board of Directors (BOD) will be at the
top of the project management structure. It will include high level representation from all relevant
parts of the state Government that are associated with the project. The PBG/BOD will be fully
empowered to make major policy decisions and develop the broad policy outline for the project;
approve the annual budget; authorize major project revisions as necessary; ratify decisions made by the
Steering Committee (in Karnataka); formulate rules and regulations; and undertake an annual review of
project implementation and monitor overall project progress. The PGB/BOD in each state would have
the responsibility for supervising the activities of project management. A provision has been met under
the project for the use of consultancy/professional services under technical assistance to support this
function, especially with regard to the new approach to the management of civil works. The PGB in
Karnataka and West Bengal would meet twice a year, while the BOD in Punjab would meet more
often. The Strategic Planning Cell would report to the PGB/BOD.
3.25  In Karnataka, but not in West Bengal or Punjab, there would be a Steering Committee under
the PGB. The Steering Committee would delegate adequate powers to the PGB to carry out its
functions as the nodal body for project implementation. The Secretary, DOHFW, would be the
Chairman of the Steering Committee and the Project Coordinator. The Steering Committee will



34
supervise and monitor project implementation, undertake planning activities and facilitate project
management activities.
3.26   Reporting to the PGB/BOD directly, in Punjab and West Bengal, and through the Steering
Conmmittee in Karnataka, would be the Project Management Cell (PMC). The PMC would be headed
by an Additional Secretary as the Project Administrator in Karnataka, a Special Secretary as the
Managing Director of the PHSC in Punjab, and a Special Secretary as the Project Director in West
Bengal. This official would be assisted by medical, technical, engineering services, financial
management and administration and personnel divisions. The functions of the PMC would include all
aspects of routine project management, monitoring progress, maintaining flow-of-funds and project
account, providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing progress reports.
3.27   At the district level, a District Health Committee/Project Implementation Cell would facilitate
functioning of the various activities to be carried out under the project. In Karnataka and West Bengal,
District Health Committees have been approved/established in all districts. At Negotiations, the
Governments of Karnataka and West Bengal provided assurances that they would maintain District
Health Commitees in all districts of the states to facilitate the collection and distribution of user
charges, maintenance of equipment, waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance
surveillance of major communicable diseases and monitoring and supervision of project related
activities.
3.28   The initial phase of project implementation will focus on developmental activities including
project launch; monitoring mechanisms and performance indicators; strengthening health MIS system
and surveillance network for major communicable disease; initiating in-service training of staff in
clinical, management and equipment matter; strengthening the functions and appointing key staff and
supplying equipment to existing hospitals to improve the quality of service program. The disbursement
profile relating to the balance of hardware and software aspects of the project would be monitored
during supervision to ensure that an optimal balance between the two is maintained. The first phase of
the hospital upgradation program would consist of 42 hospitals in West Bengal, 45 hospitals in
Karnataka and 40 hospitals in Punjab. During the initial phase, the implementation plan would be to:
complete topographical site surveys and soil tests; finalize and complete all drawings including site
development plans, invite bids and commence construction for all hospitals under the four planned
phases (see Annex 18); and complete over 50 percent of phase I and phase II and about 25% of phase
III and phase IV; and prepare and complete all drawings including site development plans, launch bids
and sign contracts of all 557 hospitals, 28 PHCs and 8 Block PHCs requiring upgradation. About 35
percent of total construction is expected to be completed by the end of the second year. At
Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that they
would review with IDA annually by April 30 of each year the progress of project implementation over
the preceding twelve months and prepare an annual work plan for the following twelve months
acceptable to IDA.



35
F. Status of Project Development
3.29   The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal have finalized their project proposals
(September, 1995) in consultation with IDA missions and on the basis of workshops on service norms,
project management and policy issues organized by each state. Based on these norms and taking into
account cost-effectiveness criteria, the proposals have defined appropriate staffing patterns, physical
upgradation of facilities, equipment requirements and the need for support services. Letters of Health
Sector Development Program furnished by each state were finalized during Negotiations (see Annex 2).
Project management arrangements, additional staffing requirements and functional responsibilities have
been finalized and found satisfactory by IDA (see Annex 6).
3.30   Beneficiary assessment and private sector studies have been completed in Karnataka, Punjab
and West Bengal. The findings and recommendations of these studies have been used to fine-tune
project design in each state. The tribal and backward areas strategy proposed for the project in
Karnataka and West Bengal was found satisfactory by the IDA team; Punjab will have no tribal
strategy since there is no tribal population in the state (see Annex 13).
3.31   An extensive survey of all health facilities to be included under the project has been completed
in Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal. Samples of the surveys in all three states have been reviewed
and found satisfactory. Each state has recruited consultants to ensure timely preparation of designs,
architectural and engineering drawings, and written bid documents. Preliminary designs of about 35
hospitals have been initially reviewed. The state Governments have been informed that these should be
in accordance with World Bank guidelines for the use of consultants to ensure that retroactive
financing would be applicable. The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal have
prepared procurement plans and discussed and agreed on the bidding documents for procurement
activities in the first two years of implementation.
3.32   All clinical, equipment and staffing norms have been reviewed and agreed with the states. An
essential drug list has been prepared by each state and found satisfactory by IDA. An inventory of the
nature and state of the current equipment at each facility that will receive inputs under the proposed
project, including the primnary care facilities in the Sunderbans area of West Bengal, has been
completed in Karnataka and West Bengal. Following this exercise, an analysis has been completed of
the equipment requirements at each facility. Punjab is nearing completion of this exercise.
3.33   A plan for a surveillance system for major communicable diseases has been discussed with
each state. Community participation in the surveillance network has been incorporated and links with
HMIS have been elaborated in the proposals. All three states have developed a comprehensive plan for
the implementation of medical waste management which includes tertiary hospitals not covered by the
project (see Annex 11).
3.34   The overall implementation schedule for the different project components has been carefully
synchronized. With regard to implementation schedules: civil works program has been prepared in
each state and procurement packages for civil works have been finalized; lists of the equipment to be
purchased under the project has also been finalized; training for staff, IEC, HMIS, referral system,
waste management, surveillance system, and other software aspects of the project have also been
finalized and found satisfactory by IDA (see Annex 18).



36
3.35    A list of performance indicators has been discussed and agreed upon (see Annex 19).
Baseline data on the performance indicators have been mostly put together by the states. The concept
of medical audit, which will extend the scope of monitoring activities under the project at the hospital
level, would be finalized at a joint workshop to be held in March, 1996. The workshop will also
finalize clinical training modules and the scope of the quality assurance program at the hospital level.
3.36   Workshop on traini. m odules for each category of staff was held in Calcutta, and attended
by Kamataka and Punjab as well. Based on this, each state has developed a list of number staff to be
trained, and the focus, location and duration of training (see Annex 7). The three states confirmed that
the management training component would be contracted out to management institutes.
3.37   Prior to Negotiations, the three state Governments took the following actions: (i) a Letter of
Health Sector Development Policy was furnished by each state, which was finalized during
Negotiations; (ii) relevant state Government clearances, as well as cleara,ce from the Planning
Commission, GOI, were obtained; (iii) Strategic Planning Cells were set up within the DOHFW in
Karnataka and West Bengal and PHSC in Punjab; (iv) a mechanism for ensuring that existing level of
user charges are implemented more rigorously was approved, an agreed mechanism for exempting the
poor from user fees is in place, and District Health Commnittees in Karnataka and West Bengal have
been approved/established; (v) an Ordinance was passed by the Government of Punjab, establishing the
PHSC; (vi) regulations relating to Board procedures, personnel policies, audits and accounts, and user
charges have been issued; (vii) in Karnataka, the Project Governing Board, Steering Committee and
Engineering Wing were established, and key staff were approved or hired; (viii) in Punjab, key staff;
including the Managing Director of the PHSC, were appointed; (ix) in West Bengal, key staff,
including Project Director, were hired; and (x) in Karnataka and West Bengal, Government Orders
were issued, providing authority to DOHFW to manage essential operational activities including civil
works construction and maintenance activities.
G. Social Assessment
3.38   A Social Assessment (SA) was undertaken for this project and was utilized extensively to fine-
tune project design (see Annex 14). Some issues addressed by the SA included: the social risks which
might affect the success of the project, including the institutional and management arrangements and
capacity building at appropriate levels of administration; the social and cultural factors that affect the
ability of stakeholders to participate or benefit from the proposed project; and the impact of the project
on women and vulnerable groups. A multi-pronged strategy was adopted to gather the data required
for the SA. This included: basic demographic, epidemiological and socio-economic data from
secondary sources; and primary data on demand and supply factors affecting health care delivery
generated through participatory observations, interviews, case studies, focus groups, surveys and rapid
rural appraisal.
3.39   An important aspect of the SA was the involvement of key stakeholders. Preparation of the
project devoted special attention to facilitating a sense of ownership and commitment of those involved
in the process. They included: (i) the Government of India (GOI), the state Governments of Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal, and agencies responsible for project implementation; (ii) the beneficiaries i.e.
the individuals, groups and communities who would benefit from the proposed intervention;



37
(iii) women, scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST); and (iv) others with a vested interest in
development initiatives, including other donor agencies, NGOs, religious and community organizations,
local authorities and the private sector. The SA contributed to developing the following key aspects of
project design:
*  increased access to improved health services for women, by strengthening the link between
community hospitals with primary health centers, especially for emergency obstetric care, through
improvements in the referral mechanism for these services. In addition, the life-cycle approach to
women's health, including screening for reproductive tract infections (RTIs) and sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs), IEC, and increasing women's awareness of their options in terms of
health care, has been incorporated in the service norms.
*  increased access to improved health services for SC/ST groups, by strengthening the link between
primary and first referral health system; providing an incentive package to medical staff to accept
assignments in tribal areas; reducing costs to tribals of utilizing the system; and increasing hospital
beds in tribal areas to reflect a share of beds which is much more commensurate with their
proportion in the overall population.
-  exempting the poor from user charges, by instituting adequate mechanisms in each state. In
addition, with regard to user charges, appropriate collection and management arrangements would
be strengthened; and the revenue collected would be reallocated to hospitals within the districts.
*  enhanced contribution of the private sector in health care delivery, through contracting-out selected
services as appropriate. In addition, NGO participation in remote and underdeveloped areas would
be promoted.
*  increased efficiency and effectiveness of the first referral network, through the development of
technical norms on the basis of the existing burden of disease in each state.
*  improved effectiveness of the primary health care system, by developing links with the secondary
level through the referral mechanism, and by strengthening its management, implementing referral
and clinical protocols, and establishing an incentive system for utilizing the referral mechanism.
H. Fiscal Analysis
3.40   The fiscal analysis undertaken for this project covers a number of issues that assisted in fine-
tuning project design and policy reform in each state. These include: (i) an analysis of public
expenditure in the health sector and recurrent cost implications of the project (see Annex 3);
(ii) sustainability analysis of the project, including impact on health and state finances (see Annex 3);
and (iii) alternative scenarios estimating the generation of additional resources through user charges
(see Annex 5).
3.41   Public Expenditure on Health and Recurrent Cost. An analysis of public expenditure on
health is presented in paras. 1.17-1.20, and in Annex 3. The burden of recurrent costs of the project in
relation to overall health expenditures is analyzed, on the basis of the following questions: (i) what will
be size of the incremental recurrent costs as a percentage of the state's health and FW current budget;



38
(ii) what will be the size of the incremental recurrent costs as a percentage of the state's plan and non-
plan current budget; (iii) what will be the likely share of the first referral level as a percentage of the
health and FW budget at project completion; and (iv) how much funds can user charges reasonably
generate at project completion.
3.42   Incremental annual recurrent costs including contingencies at project completion are expected
to be about Rs. 360 million in Karnataka, about Rs. 250 million in West Bengal, and about Rs. 150
million in Punjab. This compares to current allocations for Health and Family Welfare of
about Rs. 4,872 million in Karnataka, Rs. 5,570 million in West Bengal and Rs 2,202 million in
Punjab. Assuming continuation of past trends in overall expenditures in the year following the end of
the project, allocations would amount to Rs. 6,950 million in Kamnataka, Rs. 6,803 million in West
Bengal and Rs. 2,956 million in Punjab. Incremental recurrent costs of the project would amount to
5.2%, 3.7% and 5.1% of total revenue expenditures for the Health and Family Welfare Departments in
Karnataka, West Bengal, and Punjab respectively. The incremental recurrent costs of the project imply
an increase share for health of total Government expenditures of around 0.3 percentage points in
Karnataka, 0.3 percentage points in West Bengal and 0.2 percentage points in Punjab.
3.43   These increments should not be a problem for the state to provide. The state Governments
would meet the incremental recurrent cost needs by increasing the size of the health budget and by
reallocating incremental resources from the tertiary to the secondary level of health care. A
commitrnent to this effect has been provided in the Letter of Health Sector Development Program. At
Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal provided assurances that:
(i) their respective incremental budgetary allocations under the project for the primary and first referral
levels for each fiscal year during the implementation of the project would be fully additional to the
allocations made in FY95; (ii) and budgetary allocations for recurrent expenditures at the first referral
level would be provided on a timely basis adequate to meet resource requirement under the project's
annual operating plan for each year.
3.44   Sustainability. The deterioration in the overall financial position of the states suggests that a
sustainability analysis beyond the traditional recurrent cost implications of project investment be
undertaken. As such, a limited analysis of financial sustainability is presented. In Kamataka, the
revenue account in 1993/94 was in surplus. The gross fiscal deficit is equivalent to 17 percent of
revenues -- one of the smallest among the major states. Interest payments on debt accounted for 11.6
percent of total revenue expenditures in 1992/93 rising to 12.7 percent in 1994/95. Public debt was
equal to 26.3 percent of state domestic product in 1990/91 and to 27.0 percent in 1994/95. The
indicators of public finances in Karnataka show some slight deterioration over the past few years as a
result of increased borrowing for capital expenditures but overall demonstrate a picture of reasonable
strength. The financial implications of the project for the state government include the necessity to
service the loan, as well as the incremental recurring expenditure. Including contingencies the
projected loan represents 4.7% of the current outstanding debt of the state government. Given the
current relatively low share of interest payments in total revenue expenditures (second to lowest among
the eleven major states) the additional burden arising from this project should be manageable.
3.45   In Punjab, the deficit on the revenue account was estimated at 13.5% of revenue receipts in
1994/95 and to 23 and 24% in the two previous years. The gross fiscal deficit has been equal to 40-45
percent of revenue receipts over the past three years -- the highest for any state. Interest payments on



39
the state government's debt as a share of total state revenue rose from 12.5 percent in 1985/86 to 37.2
percent in 1994/95 -- the second highest among the eleven most highly populated states. Revenue
growth from state taxes has been buoyant in recent years and well above that for all states combined.
However, additional efforts will be required both to increase revenue receipts further and to restructure
expenditures if growth in social sector real expenditures is to revive. The relative wealth of the state
suggests that it will not be a problem to generate the increased revenues.
3.46   In West Bengal, the deficit on the revenue account was equal to 19 percent of revenue receipts
in 1994/95 (the highest ratio across the 15 major states). This has increased from 14 percent in
1991/92. The gross fiscal deficit is currently (1994/95) equal to 30 percent of revenue receipts.
Interest payments on the state government's debts were equal to 19.1 of revenue expenditures in March
1995. This is slightly above the average across the major states (18.0 percent). Outstanding debt is
equivalent to 22.6% of state domestic product which is slightly below the average. Efforts are
underway to improve state public finances. The fiscal deficit in 1995/96 is anticipated to be below the
previous years' and as a share of revenue receipts is planned to fall to 27%. The project will add 4.5%
to the current debt of the state Government. Further efforts to increase revenues and to alter the
structure of expenditure obviously will be necessary to reverse the relatively weak position of public
finances in general and the deteriorating situation of finances for the health sector in particular.
3.47   Revenue from User Charges. tm analysis of potential revenue generated by implementing
user charges, based on information from Kramataka, was undertaken. The analysis shows that Rs. 136
million could be generated from paying beds and wards, charges for diagno .-t tests and surgery, out-
patient charges and charges for health certificates. This is equal to about 9% of the total or about 29%
of all non-salary recurrent expenditures. This amount of additional revenue could have a significant
effect on the levels of service quality provided by first referral level hospitals. These calculations are
based on expected revenue from more rigorous implementation of the current level of charges
prevailing at first referral level hospitals. There is, however, considerable scope for enhancing the user
charges. For example, Government hospitals charge Rs. 45 and Rs. 100 for minor and major surgery
respectively compared to the average private expenditure on an episode of hospitalization in a rural
private hospital in 1986-87 of Rs. 733 (NSSO). The estimates of revenue generated are, therefore, on
the lower end of the projected range.
I. Indigenous Population
3.48    In both Karnataka, with a 4% Scheduled Tribe population, and West Bengal, with a 5.6%
Scheduled Tribe population, tribal peoples are likely to be substantial beneficiaries of the proposed
project. During project preparation, a number of workshops were held to facilitate the consultative
participation of tribal populations (see section G on Social Assessment, Annexes 13 and 14).
3.49   The project's tribal and backward areas strategy is aimed at increasing the demand for hospital
services in tribal areas by improving the quality of services and providing effective IEC to better
inform tribal populations of the benefits of using health services at secondary hospitals. The project
would: (a) strengthen linkages between primary and secondary health care services; (b) provide an
incentive package to doctors and other medical staff in tribal areas to encourage them to accept
assignment in these areas; (c) increase the appropriate utilization of non-tribal medical system by tribal
population and reduce the cost to tribals of utilizing the system. In addition, the number of beds at sub-



40
divisional and community hospitals located in tribal areas will be increased to reflect a share of beds at
secondary hospitals that is much more commensurate with their proportion in the overall population of
the states. At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka and West Bengal provided assurances that
they would carry out the project in tribal areas in their respective states, and in the Sunderban areas of
West Bengal and amongst disadvantaged groups in Kamataka in accordance with the strategy agreed
with IDA.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.50   The proposed project would not raise any environmental concerns. The project would enhance
medical waste disposal at health facilities where necessary. A plan for improving disposal of medical
wastes has been provided by each state.
K. Land Acquisition
3.51   The process of acquisition of additional land, where required, for the extension of existing
hospitals has been initiated and most sites have been made available. IDA has been assured that none
of the sites for hospital upgradation would entail involuntary resettlement of any persons.
L. Accounting and Auditing
3.52   The project would be subject to normal Government accounting and auditing procedures which
are considered acceptable to IDA. At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West
Bengal provided assurances that: (i) project accounts would be maintained and audited annually in
accordance with sound auditing standards consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the annual financial statements and SOEs together with
the auditor's report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later
than nine months after the close of each fiscal year.



41
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS
A. Benefits
4.1    A major benefit of the proposed project is that it will assist the states of Karnataka, Punjab and
West Bengal to put in place a coherent approach to establishing a cost-effective and sustainable health
system. This would indirectly benefit the states' population as a whole. First, the broader sectoral
policy reforms envisaged under the proposed project such as improvements in health planning capacity,
management effectiveness, allocation of public resources for health, and enhanced role of the private
sector would increase the efficiency of the health sector by improving the enviromnent in which the
health sector operates and by optimizing resource use. Second, there would be substantial cost savings
in each state through the implementation of streamlined service norms and rationalization of service
provision at different levels of health care delivery. Morever, the technical and quality improvements,
including operations and maintenance functions, at the institutional and health facility levels will
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of health care services by encouraging patients to seek timely
care resulting in higher cure rates at lower costs. Third, those currently utilizing existing services
would benefit from better quality of care. In addition, there would be other qualitative benefits which
would have a significant impact on the health system. For example, the strengthening and upgrading of
first referral facilities would lend vital support and credibility to the primary health care system for
implementing the various priority health programs and provide basic health care in rural areas. An
adequately functioning referral mechanism would also improve the effectiveness of the primary health
care level and encourage a greater participation of the private sector in health care. Moreover, there
are considerable externalities associated with reducing public health hazards through improvements in
waste disposal methods and through improvements in the surveillance system for major comnnunicable
diseases. Finally, the proposed project will have a direct impact on improving the health status of the
people of each state by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability and thus increase the earning
potential of the poor.
4.2    Project Beneficiaries. In addition to systemic benefits which would indirectly benefit the
populations of the states of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal, noted in para. 4.1, the project would
directly benefit approximately 10 million out-patients and 0.7 million in-patients currently utilizing
existing hospital services in the three states through the provision of better quality of care. In addition,
the project is expected to directly benefit an estimated 3.3 million incremental out-patients in West
Bengal, 1.2 million in Karnataka, and 0.7 million in Punjab; and an estimated 0.4 million incremental
in-patients in West Bengal, 0.3 million in Karnataka and 0.12 million in Punjab. This analysis on
incremental in-patients is based on the following assumptions: (i) incremental patients at secondary
hospitals do not include those expected to be diverted from tertiary hospitals; (ii) occupancy rate of
80% in West Bengal, 64% in Karnataka, and 60% in Punjab at pre-project and is assumed to increase
to 100%, 82% and 78% in West Bengal, Kamataka, and Punjab, respectively at project completion;
(iii) the average length of stay is 12 days in West Bengal, 15 in Karnataka and 12 in Punjab pre-project
and is assumed to decline to 8, 10 and 8 in West Bengal, Karnataka and Punjab, respectively at project
completion; and (iv) a corrective factor is used that assumes that a third of all in-patients are
hospitalized about 2.5 times annually based on hospital data.



42
4.3    Cost Effectiveness Analysis. The project is not suitable for a cost-benefit type analysis
because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits and data limitations. However, a micro-level analysis,
based on detailed hospital level cost data, was undertaken to show the possible cost savings of treating
patients at secondary level facilities rather than at tertiary hospitals (see Annex 4). Analysis comparing
cost-effectiveness between different types of hospitals is limited in India, because of the unavailability
of data. Previous analysis has shown that at least a third of all costs could be saved by treting patients
at first referral facilities rather than at tertiary level facilities. However, due to variations in the case-
mix, such analysis did not compare cost-effectiveness at first referral and tertiary hospitals. The
following is an illustrative example of the type of cost savings that would result from the project
investment. To estimate cost savings of treating patients at secondary level hospitals, a preliminary
analysis of the overall profile of unit costs related to specific inputs for in-patients and out-patients was
undertaken. A comparison was made between a tertiary level hospital and a first referral level hospital
in Hyderabad where comparable data based on a similar case-mix was available. Both hospitals had a
similar case-mix of ante-natal, intra-natal, family planning and gynaecological services. Since both
hospitals provided in-patient and out-patient services, a comprehensive index which captures both types
of services was used to estimate at unit costs (the day equivalent method). It was found that the day
equivalent4 at first referral hospitals was about two-thirds that of a tertiary hospitals - Rs. 115
compared to Rs. 160. The difference was largely because of greater unit cost of infrastructure and
overheads at tertiary hospitals. This analysis provides an indicative example of cost savings that can
result from the strengthening and rationalization of health services across different tiers of the health
system.
B. Program Objective Categories
4.4    Poverty Aspects. A large proportion of project beneficiaries will be from the poor and
underprivileged segments of the states' population. In West Bengal, the beneficiary assessment study
found that nearly 70% of expected project beneficiary would belong to i re lo.ver 40% of income
distribution. In Kamataka, the analysis found that over 45% of the patients liave an annual income
below Rs. 15,000 (close to the official poverty line) and over 90% of the patients have an annual
income below the taxable level of Rs. 50,000. In Punjab, a relatively large share of the investment
under the project is targeted in the Upper Bari Doab region where 30% of the overall population and
40% of the rural population live below the poverty line; and the Southern Malwa region where rural
poverty is about 25%. Based on this data, the proposed project is classified as a Program of Targeted
Interventions (PTI).
4.5    Gender Issues. In general, the project would provide much greater access to women,
particularly rural women, and improve the quality of services they receive. More specifically, by
strengthening the referral mechanism and linking the community hospitals with prunary health centers,
the project would assist in providing timely access to emergency obstetric care. The project would also
promote a life-cycle approach to women's health, taking into account some of the main
recommendations of the Cairo Conference on women's reproductive health, such as screening RTIs and
STDs, providing appropriate IEC to promote the value of the girl-child, and increasing women's
awareness of their options in terms of health care.
4The day equivalent method equates one in-patient day with four out-patient visits (Barnum and Kutzin,
Public Hospitals in Developing Countries; Johns Hopkins University Press, 1993).



43
C. Risks
4.6    The proposed project carries several risks that are associated with PHN projects in general in
India such as poor procurement, late disbursement, untimely and inadequate flow of funds, poor
maintenance of building and equipment and inadequate attention to software and qualitative aspects.
Most of these risks have been substantially reduced through careful project design. There are two
additional risks associated with this project. Institutional. The capacity of existing institutions to
undertake systemic improvements and to establish a more rational health delivery system has not been
tested in India. Institutional strengthening would be emphasized in the proposed project to address this
risk. In Punjab, the newly formed PHSC might experience some start-up problems. The Government of
Punjab, at the highest level, has made a commitment to enable the PHSC to effectively implenent the
project. Financial. As with other projects in India, the overall financial status of the states is a risk.
The position of public finances in Karnataka and recent trends in expenditure on health both suggest
that the project's incremental recurrent costs are sustainable. In Punjab and West Bengal however,
continuation of recent trends in health expenditures would not be sufficient to absorb the incremental
costs. In both cases the rate of growth of health expenditures in recent years has been below the growth
rate of overall expenditure. There are, however, various measures which will help reduce the risk to
financial sustainability significantly. The state Governments are comnitted to ensure that health
expenditures will be maintained at least as a constant share of overall expenditures throughout the life
of the project. In the case of Punjab. the necessary resources needed to sustain this commitment can be
mobilized with small increase in revenue. In the case of West Bengal, some reorientation of its fiscal
policies may be required to ensure sustainability. An on-going mechanism for monitoring the financial
sustainability of the states was discussed at negotiations. Understanding was reached that as part of
the project's comprehensive mid-term review, there would be a review of overall state finances, as well
as the financial situation of the health sector. If necessary, additional measures to achieve financial
sustainablity of project benefits would be agreed based on results of that review.



44
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka, West Bengal, Punjab and the Punjab Health
Systems Corporation provided assurances that they would:
(a)    ensure that: (i) the share of resources to the primary and secondary levels of health
care in the total resources (Plan and Non-plan) allocated to the health sector would be
increased each year until the year 2002; and allocate adequate resources for drugs, essential
supplies and maintenance of equipment and buildings at first referral hospitals in accordance
with norms agreed with IDA (paras. 2.9-2.10);
(b)    maintain a Strategic Planning Cell with adequate staff, resources and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA (para. 2.11);
(c)   take all necessary actions to ensure that the DOHFW in Kamataka and West Bengal
and PHSC in Punjab would maintain authority in managing essential operational activities
including civil works construction and maintenance activities (para. 2.12);
(d)    ensure that: (i) the arrangements for the management and collection of user charges
approved prior to negotaitions would be maintained; (ii) user charges would be implemented in
a phased manner after improvements in the quality of basic services and infrastructure
development have been completed; (iii) the agreed mechanism for exempting the poor from
user fees would remain in place; and (iv) in Karnataka and West Bengal, the system for
reallocation of funds collected at the hospital level, to be retained and reallocated based on
need and level of revenue collection by the District Health Committees, would be maintained.
In Punjab, regulations on user charges would stipulate that funds collected would be retained
at the point of collection (paras. 2.16-2.18);
(e)    not later than June 30, 1999 carry out, jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed mid-term
review of project progress including management and financial reviews and thereafter
implement their recommendations (para. 2.22);
(f)    maintain key headquarters personnel for purposes of implementing the project and
would engage and thereafter maintain key additional personnel with adequate qualifications
and experience to be hired under the project in accordance with a schedule agreed with IDA
(para. 2.23);
(g)    adopt, within six months after upgradation of each facility, staffing and technical
norms at all hospitals under the project, as agreed with IDA, to ensure the quality of services
(para. 2.27);
(h)    provide funds, satisfactory to the Association, annually for the maintenance of
previously existing equipment in health facilities supported under the project (para. 2.30);



45
(i)    strengthen the referral system between the primary, secondary and tertiary levels by
December 31, 1996, by: (i) issuing appropriate directives to hospitals to strengthen the
management of the referral system; (ii) establish and thereafter maintain and implement
appropriate referral protocols and clinical management protocols; and (iii) establish and
thereafter maintain and implement an appropriate incentive systemn for patients who use the
system (para 2.32).
(j)   review with IDA by April 30 of each year the progress of project implementation over
the preceding twelve months and prepare an annual work plan for the following twelve months
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.28);
(k)    ensure that (i) the respective incremental budgetary allocations under the project for
the primary and first referral levels fbr each fiscal year during the implementation of the
project would be fully additional to the allocation made in FY95; and (ii) budgetary allocations
for recurrent expenditures at the first referral level would be provided on a timely basis
adequate to meet resource requirement under the project's annual operating plan for each year
(para. 3.43); and
(1)    a project account would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound
auditing standards consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to
IDA; and certified copies of the annual financial statements and SOEs together with the
auditors' report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no
later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.52).
5.2    At Negotiations, the Governments of Karnataka and West Bengal provided assurances that
they would:
(a)    maintain District Health Commitees in all districts of the states to facilitate the
collection and distribution of user charges, maintenance of equipment, waste management,
training of technical staff, quality assurance surveillance of major communicable diseases and
monitoring and supervision of project related activities (para 3.27); and
(b)    carry out the project in tribal areas, in the Sunderban area of West Bengal, and
amongst disadvantaged groups in Karnataka, in accordance with the strategy agreed with IDA
(para. 3.49).
5.3    At Negotiations, the Government of Punjab and the PHSC provided assurances that they
would (i) take all necessary actions to enable PHSC to carry out its part of the project; and
(ii) undertake health care activity under the project in accordance with service delivery norms
acceptable to the Association, and ensure, in carrying out other health care activities, that the ability of
PHSC to perform its obligations under the Agreement would not be materially and adversely affected
(para. 2.21).
5.4    With the above assurances and agreements, the project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of
SDR 235.5 million (US$350.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



46                                   Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
HEALTH STATUS AND EPIDEMIOLOGY
Table 1: Health Indicators
Current Status and Targets to the Year 2000
Targets   India      Karnataka  Punjab     West Bengal
1. Population (million)                                            47.9       20.3         72.4
2. Crude Birth Rate                           21.0       28.5       25.5      26.3         25.6
3. Crude Death Rate                            9.0        9.2        8.5       7.0          7.3
4. Infant Mortality Rate                Below 60         74.0        6.7      55.0         58.0
5. Expectatioa of Life at Birth
(a) Male                                   64.0       60.6       62.1       66.6        62.0
(b) Female                                 64.0       61.7       63.3       66.6        61.9
6. Percentage of Eligible Couples
Effectively Protected                      60.0       45.5       49.0      63.7         37.2
7. Annual Growth Rate of Population            1.2        2.1       31.9       2.1          2.2
8. Pregnant Mothers Receiving Ante-natal Care  100.0     78.1      84.0        5.1         80.0
9. Deliveries by Trained Birth Attendants    100.0       69.8                              70.0
10. Immunisation Status 56 Coverage
(a) T.T. (for pregnant mother)            100.0       78.1       70.0      91.3         80.0
(b) D.P.T. (infants)                      100.0       88.8       69.3      90.9         84.9
(c) Polio (infants)                       100.0       89.2       69.5      90.4         85.5
(d) B.C.G. (infants)                      100.0       92.6       73.1      88.2         96.2
Source: Sample Registration Survey



47                                    Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
HEALTH STATUS AND EPIDEMIOLOGY
Table 2: Morbidity Profile of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Cause Groups                        Karnataka        Punjab        West Bengal
1. Infective & Parasitic Diseases                              16.3             17.0            17.6
2. Neoplasm                                                     1.0              0.7             0.7
3. Endocrine, Nutritional & Metabolic Diseases &                3.5              2.4             1.7
Immunity Disorders
4. Diseases of the Blood & Blood Forming Organs                 0.3              0.7             1.1
5. Mental Disorders                                                              0.8             0.9
6. Diseases of the Nervous Systems and Sense Organs             5.1              8.7             2.9
7. Diseases of the Circulatory System                           2.9              3.1             4.1
8. Diseases of the Respiratory System                          14.5             17.3             7.8
9. Diseases of the Digestive System                             5.2              9.9            10.1
10. Diseases of the Genito Urinary System                       2.7              3.0             4.8
11. Complications of Pregnancy/Child Birth                     11.1             3.12            22.7
12. Diseases of the Skin & Sub-cutaneous Tissue                 4.6              8.0             2.1
13. Diseases of the Musculo Skeletal System & Connective        1.3              3.5             1.1
Tissue
14. Congenital Anomalies                                        0.1              0.1             0.3
15. Certain Conditions Originating in the Perinatal Period      0.3              0.2             0.3
16. Symptons, Signs and IIl Defined Conditions                  1.0              5.8            13.2
17. Injury & Poisoning                                         19.9             15.5             8.7
Source: Sample Registration Survey



Table 3: Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs, In Thousands): India
0o111                      Mals                                                 Fenabes
s,.es
0.sease ot ing y (IICD J code)                          au ages     u 4    5614  15 44      45.69   60 ,   AN ages           0 4   5 14   15S44   45-59      60,   AN ages
AX Causes                                               292.646  66.901 15.919  31.563    16,102  14.969   145.454       69.699  16.564  35.580  11.939    13.409   147.191
I Qnan"Lid. man3I .1 pt lntail                          148.217  48 921   7.360  10.094     2.864   1.526    70.771      49.010   0294  17.257   1.537       1.107    77.506
(0022139.320 322.460-46b.466.480 487 614 626.
630 676.760 779)
A Inlecous A paa,asc d,s (001 139.320322.6146161         82.02a  22.655   6.011   8.8t7     2.524    695    40.822        24.165   6652   8.625   2.398       366    41,206
Al luttsculas.s (020.028.37)                              2 0,800    244    582   3.256      1.694    506      6,282        399    969   2.210    729          152     4,518
A2 STDs  dud.ng HIV (o090o099.624 626)                    3.734     114       3    386         25       2        530         121      6   3.046      28         2      3.203
a 5SpNts (090097)                                        808     114       2    327         23        1       466         121       2    198      19                  340
D Cliamncya                                              326                      55          2       .        58           *       3    253      10          1       268
c GsunioeJ (O98d                                           16       *              4          *       .         s                   *      1        *         *        12
d Pe.c emflanwiu2to0y d4sease 1614 6126                 2.581                       *                 .         .-                      2.584       *         *    2.564
A3 IlyV wm-cwn                                            4 06i     12       9  2.Str7        112       1     2.701          14     IS   1.314      14          1     1.358
A4 D-.t"oeal tlseases (001.002.004.006 009)              28 031  1 t.S86   1.129    804        102     21    13.643       12,268   1.305    688    113         20    14.394
a AC.le walerV                                         15.390   5.92 3    856    638        76      16      1.498       6.260    988    545       84         IS     1.892
o PNes,stam                                            8 21.    3 J6      42                          *    4.015        4,201     57        *                 *    4.258
c  ysentery                                             4.314   t./IJG    225    IG.         26       G     2,130       1.,U06    2t,0    143     29          5     2.244
AS Ctnat,ni Jusii 2031 33U17.045.,t0055 56.138)           19 463   7J.2   215        6 I  S6   2C       9      9.579       8.059   I.726     52      29         I      9 84
A Penuss.s 1133)                                       2.950   2 1289    236                                1.425       1.255    270        .       ,         ,     1.525
o Pclomytei.is (045.138)                                I 835    362     725        -         *       .     1.0817        246    502        -       .                 74S
c O.ninena (0321                                          2t0     ?0      28                          -        48          17      38       5                          60
a IAeasIes (0551                                        9.336   3873     628        .         *             4.491       4.102    744                                4.846                  1
a Ietanus (031)                                         5.224   2 293    145      56        26        9     2.528       2.440     172      47     29          8     2.696                  0
A6  .lenls.  i (03 320.3221                               2.006    sR9    310       I78        40-      13     1.191         526     268    116      12          5       8l2
Al l4pI.us 1010)                                            311      35      63      31         12      3        143          37      14     40      14         3        168
At MaLana 208)1                                             956      59     262    219         39       a        416         6s2   215       817     43          8       415
AS T'op.cat dutlel (065.086.120,1251                      2.425      90    441    725         166      30      1,459         67    355    280    234           30        966
a Alnc4n trypaW r1JgsrS  (066 3.086 4.086 51                                *       --
b Chagas dsease (086.0.086.1.086 21
cSdl.stos.mwasis (120                                    2SI.    IS6                          .       9       166                   *       -       4                  tS
adeuaimhnnass .085)                                     1.732     90    44?    451           17       4     1.010          61    355    279        19         3       723
a tymih.bc ldanas,s (2250. 225 1)                        442                     I *    228  149     17       264           *       -             131       27        158
I Ckd.*"*.aas.s (125 31
A10 Lepiosy 1030)                                           521      33    209       14         3        *       259          31    216       13       1                 262
All lacdiora (076)                                          309        *       *     49        33      30        112           *89                    i5 IS3             197
A12 Ingest"  he2flmn12s (126.129)                         2.056       5    866      161         IS      9      1.056           5    826      245     IS          a     1.000
aAsAans 11220)                                         12166       5    589        2    *                    597            5    562        2       .         .       569
b Incthus (127 3)                                        486        *    246       2                  .       249           *    235        2       .         .       231
C toswown (1261                                          404              32    25           24       9       211           *      29     142      14         8       191
0 Respua2oCy m1goclogNs (381 382.460 466.480 487k        31 154  112.91  I ?2J   1 218        340    831    25.568        12.556   1.485   1.041    363        741    16.186
41 Acule lwe lIespakloey ml (460465)                     30.133  11.351   1.221   1.042       308    826    14.734        12.020   1.420    896    338        726    15.399
02 Acule ppet espfloIy(   l (466.40 481)                    598      26      12    216         32       IS       320          27      66     145     26         IS       278
03 Olsne6a  (381.352)                                      I.023    514        *                                 S14         509                       .                 509
C. Ilalemal cwhatons (630676)                              1.824               *                 *       .         .                 156   7.S92     16                1.824
Cl. Hiaemaithaga (666.6671                                 1,365       *       *       *         *       *                     *      47   1.305      13               1.365
C2 Sqst  6170)                                             2.752               *       *         *                  .                 31  2.693      27          *    2.752
C3 Ecianr4 (642 4 642 6                                     394               1.       *                 .         .           .       6    374       4                 394              (     >
C4. )lypeuwnsaon (642 nwws 642 46426)                        292       .       .       .         .       .         .           .             162      2          *       191 )
CS Obeared labout (660)                                    1.941                                                                      i s *S .  *  *  26   .906  12    1.441              '   a
CG AbtedIn (630639)                                         926        .               *         *       *                           31    906        9                 946
0. Pe&MAW caww$s (7M779                                   26.671  14.321                                 .    14.381      12,290                                      12.290
-tt-'



Table 3: Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs, In Thousands): India
(Continued)
Doili                       MaFml
Doiase of wnury (ICO 9 codel                              a     s     0 4    5 14   1544      4559   60 I Al ages               0 4    5 14   1544   45-59      60 .   Al ages
U NhCansruLgC46 (140-6?8.680.7591                         117642  15.202   4.700  14.701    12.226  13.080    59.908        17.525   5.002  13.567   9.569    12.051    57.734
1aWUs 320 322.460 465.,66.480 481. 614f616t
A M.akgnAa nqeasns (140-2081                               12.041     141    472   1.340       2,547   2.126     6.633         483      69   1,468   2.103      1.286      5.409
Al kl.m and oearA.agna 1140.1491                            1.908       3       9    226        385    658       1.280          13       2     131     202        280       627
A2 OeSo&   U.s (1501                                         857                       5 S7     218     230        504           5.    IS2                        142       353
A3 Sxla flC 1151)                                            7'3                I      86       202      181       471                    -     52      103        Sl       242
A4 CA01clal l52.153.l5:(                                     445                       11        65      IlI       253           2              46       41        95        192
AS Le.v (I55)                                                220        1       4      22        76       52       156           4        -      14      23        22        64
A6 Panceeas 1157)                                             124                      I 1       32      35         78                           8       18        IS        46
A7  Lang (1621                                               561                1      65       207    200         474           2               13      32        39        86
AS kIelaaogna ana omuLe sk,n (172-173                          18t                      2         4        3        10            -               2       4         2         a
As  lceasil (174)                                            G09        *       *       *                  *                                   217    260         131       609
AIO Cd,.. (IIdO)                                             SS6                         *                 *          *                   ,    292     417        189        S8S
All C.p.i lItn 1179.1l1-182)                                  46        *                 .                 ,  ,                                  5      IS        22        46
A12 O.Ary 11831                                              206                *       .                                        4              93      62         47       206
A13 Pboslaly (185)                                            194                       2        39      153       194
All DIaJOeeI 1I1)                                             101                       9        25      S0         8S           2                2       6        12        22
Ali L)n)pr4,Isu 1200 2021                                    441       23      75      98        42       70       308          25       5      34       23        53       140
A1i Le1ke,ma 1204-20r1                                       557       41     133      87        22      41        325         121      IS      5S       14        24       233
B OLhei nfopAim 1210 2391                                    801      21       38      13        46      21        195          s8     413      66      21         18       602
C D.AoieslsnWlus (250)                                      1 868                     218       312    308         840                    -    18a    397         442      1.025
o Nue*.O Aelve crw  1240-255. inus 250)                    18265   5 609      579   2.316       346      183     9,183       5.167     711   1.776    455         214     9.02
Di Pso4en eneigy maulbon 1260.2631                          5552   2.5.11      32      45         5       11     2.629       2.n03      b3      29        5        25     2.923
D2 lk"te delc.eAny 1243)                                    1 I93d    C41      25      31         rs       4       713         C13      31      34        4         3       685
03 Vd.An A ddlr.eCflCY 12641                                4.103   2           *       .                        2.OuS       2 024        -               -               2.024
D4 Anaetaas 1280285)                                        4 469    252      S06   r695        216     102      1.911         214     112   1.12    252          138     2.497
E neuwopsycruInC 1290359. menus 320 322)                  1173   86!3   1.730   4.511         1.331   1.032     9.426       1.081   1.450   4.350     726        199      .4113
El  l.taow allec.e desolde.                                 30e49                    916  *       18     33      1.066                        1,733    228         62     2,023      m
E2 04..ui aftcu.e dssveoei (296)                             20d                       94         11       3       107                    -     87      10          3       101      0
E3 Psycnoses (295. 291-294.297-2991                        2.132                2    937         36      21        99S                   3   1.108 Ja              I      1.131
E4 Epaepsy (3451                                           2.280      190    628    394         9S       29      1.331         IS5    434      303      40         17       949      0
ES Aklcc   d apenJence 13031                                1.904       *            932        514     218      1.664            *            133      75         32       240      E
E6 Alnrwmmw I elne ae.onl.As (330.331.333.336.2901          1.951     61      62       31       257    569         981         109      46      27    230        558        910      j
E7 PYAlnsa asease( 332(                                      14d        *       *       *        31      50         82            -               *     27        38         66      u,
ES I.UlAWfe Idecows 13401                                   266        *       I    100         25       9        136            *      2     102      16          9       129      e
E9 Drug depenoenSe 1304)                                     647               24     394        49       12       479                   a 8   140      16          3       168      L
EI10 Poll Iaunuicsicgss, 0so.de,                            838       12     88    207          17       3        327          19    141    321        26          4       Sll      <
F Stnse oagan 1360-389)                                    2.3d4      62       10     120       624     422      1.238          82      18      97    510        378      1.146      .
F I GucoTu.#mwlaldd Olndnes (365)                            39S                *      19       16S      48        232                                   e 118    49        166      *
F2 CalalacI ealalet  LIndness 1366)                         1813       10              91       458     374        932           9              90    452        330        880
G Caa.WvascJai cseases (390.469)                          28 5-4    6d2     335   2.540      4.3S1   6.825    14.732          16     714   1.957   3.194      7,120    13.860     .<
GI Aha.asui.; heASi  ease (390 2j81                         I.814      14     80      190       152     160       602           k4     110    205    395         459      1.272      ".
GI l-Isa6Mec nead dhseas (3                                8.142        3       2    543      1.125   2.680      4.953           3       2     162     129     2.293      3.189      '
G3 CeitwovausWAi dsease 1430 4381                          6.24d      Sd      47    352         663   1.632      2.752          69      B3    462    784       2,088      3.496      2
G4 IntlAanvUlowu  cdse3c d.aca5C 1.                        6.191     a14      142    9as      1.02S   1.099      3.625         560     359    617    656         974      3.166      2
H Cwonr  sesp.aIwV as li(460119.                            7.906   1.38S    636    6GA         479     753      3.900       1.815    4G2    719    486          464      4.006
men.s 460-466.480 487)
tol Cr. cmOsuccl.e  . 9g   . 11490 492.49S 496)             1.102    lUd      3d       O        231    541        914          115      32      4a    237        29C       720      a
H2 Aslna (493)                                              1.119      71    331    316           4      36                                            112        44       869                         > 
84  31
46 C



p
L
Table 3: Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs, In Thousands): India
(Continued)
*
El04h                       Mls                                                   ftsle
sesh
D,saaseu of e4ury 1ICD 9 cote\                            all aes     0 4    514   15-44     45.59   60 .   Al ages           0 4    5214   15.44   45.59      60 ,   AA ages
IDsseses of ins dgesive syslem 1520 579)                   15.240   1619    281   1.657        1.298    751      5.607       2.822     496   1.096    742        478      5.634
I1 Pep,c wAcet bseasa 1531.533)                              992        5      12    329        20?      8S        63?           7      12     ItO    107          50       355
1? Ciheosus *l et btell (57)                                2690       32      25    691        765    335       1.848          48      SO     315    291         132       842
J Genuiou ususay (580629)                                   3932      195     375    301        GOG     401      1.884         239    593    568       484        464     2048
Jl Nepsun2shieptuous 1580589)                               2 101     62      331     226       222     196      2.041          43    361    307       177        172     1.060
J2 Benign postai  hypeatuophy (6003                          31         -                       296      74        31Z
f. S&n  ,stlsa (6807091                                      241       3'       9      14         4       14        77          5o       a      74       2         36       170
L1 62.SLO-sWt4lal sytIenCl (710 7391                        1.253       1      41     18a        89      80        405          22      i.6    429     197        129       849
2LI Rfieun*ud anu1.s (2141                                   216                       87         t0      6        202                          bl      26          a       113
r2 OsleoannVmss (7151                                        432                       51        52       14       122                         266     116         28       310
*4 CongewAli abitotmai.es (740 159)                         9.434   4.524     159     253          3       4     4.843       4.,1J8    162    209        19         2     4.590
rt Oai nealth (20 5291                                      1.813      20      34    535        187      157       934          19      32    489      285        155       819
Ilt  Denial Ca..es 521.0                                     324      20       34      69        25       19       167          29      32      63      24         28       t57
242 Peu.Konai esease (5231                                  1 104                     466        75      33        574                         426      73        32        530
543 Eadniu.isn (520)                                         384                                 87      106       192                                  817        05       192
it )  igt5 /f800 9991                                     26.721   2.711   3.859   6.768i    1.013    36i3    I4.775         3,164   3.266   4.756    513        251        2.952
A UnnianlonasEn2800 949j                                  23.134   2696   3.619   SA0           892     336    12.640        3,138   3.113   3,560    456        228    10.494
Al Ifloj  utalic a'odens 1E8210 829. 826 8291               3.252    205      355   1.492       193  -  62       2.308         204     347    332       40        22        945
A2 Po-sowno (ES5&869)                                        288      SO       34     104        is       4        211          27      31      17        -                  77                      0
A3 Fams IE16850 869)                                        4 996    914     833    al*         242      625     2.887      12148    590       173     109        89      2.109
34 F"uel (890899)                                           1.557    508      125      41        28       23       710         292    365    218         6          7       847
AS DuonawJi (6920)                                          1,729     187    380      292        31       11       897         217    302    273        31         20       832
A6 Occupauunal ()                                            893                      418        84       4        506                         340      45          2       387
B kinenLta (E950 969.990.999)                               3.593      771     80   2.730       121      21      2.,36          26     5SS   1,196      57        23      1.451
62 Setll .nnicled If950.959                                 2.289             116    915         63       16     2.111                 144    900       28          6     1.076
62 Hanuc0e and vsolence (E960 969)                          I.I05     52       47    661         51       10       821            -            243      25         16       285
f3 Wa (IE990.999)                                            209       26     I1    153            1               204          26       It     53       4                   95
PoPlAsles .(.n2m ons)                                       8495    598   lot28   2005          476    298t      4394         567    953   1832    460           28t9     410 1
IloSes
A das 4 h    I syufbo  ndcales les gun 1,000 DALYs
*iCO 9 caos lot oschaemuc head  ea,se aLe at blows 410 414. 440 9 plus al .1got 45 S9 50% 0o 42  1. 4274. 427 S. an,l 33% ol 428. at ages 60. 80% o 427 1. 421 4. 427 5 and 50. of
428
. ICO 9 codes lot intlammaloma     catidac d.seases aus as blotS 420. 421. 422 425 plus at ages 0-44: 50% o 428. at ages 45.59 25% of 428. at ages 60.: 20% ol 428
*     8ea Soa uFa eslarAshed ICD 9 codeS specs C l c ccupatonl enjuues
Eslinuues ha.e been based on tponed occupalosal wNtues an.d deatl2s Iab,4C2J DV the 2ne,lnalsonal tabouu O1ganusalon
c    >
Q
tA



51                                Annex 2
Page 1 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
%X F)i1                     TaL  orgEAX  2252U41
GAIjZTA)  ~A5L              ~                                 Adazrs: E4- eO: %.
Tm. e   Ofl'14 C2. L' 2
todAefl, 0:4 Ef2tULj oya q;-                                     dQ1q0r8j1-4xL0 0:
5MKt2TA&r lU UuUVgANMzNYr                                   htUtLTI*TRLI r D OUnDIN
4PALTM AN*N FAMIlY WHtLPAXS                                   III STAOGE FIRST LOOK
DUARTMhIIT                                            DR. a. 3. I ANFIDPKA VilWI
VANGALORA!UGG oil
laRooW   61 Il   96                                                13-2-1 996
>   So*   (7  | xt8 96 C;t:~~~~~~~~rigag  DA=D, .............-.. ...
t: . JHenz VexVin.1
Diroctor Iia rep=tumrnt,
Tha World Daxd,z
Wal3hiMxtcn 3.C.
8ir,o
Sub s  1 b lm n ;lcr    v      -^- r*
in tth  Xwnataka lbalth  8ygtem
Project.
Governmrent d  Karnatakat lave prupox=rJ to
JMA a project for tha developmant ae ikbalth
Systeua  in Kmnatuka witu  spil  fcus wi thc
eocoodazy Oiz referral hospital upto the diatrict
oyal.  In this comection, ' hw,o pioaauro  in
c%xweyiug th  epproval cf  tL Gt ;eznn,.t Eor a
prog raen-4uatrix for ffaJattb dcct cr Uvelop-ent
In tbe  tate   a  opy d  which is enclosam  fc
your paruaal awc raferexrn.
YuurZ f taTh1 Ully.
s    a bove.
py to shr B.r K. Bhattacharya AIl. C3 and Principal
Uecretuzy to Government, Frnarce DepaLrtmcnt,
Vldhaja 8oudha, Bangalore.
(OAUrAtI BASU)



52                                     Annex 2
Page 2 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Karnataka
Issue                          Effect                Proposed Change or Action
1. Adequacy of the overall size   The share of the health and familv   Recognizing the link between
of the health budget to meet    welfare sector is about 6.43% of   basic public health provision and
public health goals.        the state revenue budget and    poverty alleviation, the
1.29% of GDP in 1993/94. These  Govcrnment will ensure that, in
health expenditures are inadequate  each fiscal year, during
to provide essential primary health  implementation of the project, the
care together with a basic packagc  share of overall budget (plan and
of clinicaUcurative services.  non-plan), excluding all projects
specifically financed cither
through external assistance or by
way of loan from national
financial institutions or by way of
grant/oan from Government of
India as per award of Tcnth
Finance Commission, allocated to
the hcalth scctor shall bc
maintaincd at Icast at the level
allocated in FY94/95.
2. Imbalances in public         With incrcasing cxpcnditurc on  Thc statc Governmcnt recognizes
cxpcnditure between diffcrcnt  tcrtiary lcvel health carc, therc has  the nccd for focusing attention on
lcvels of the hcalth scctor.  becn a relativc declinc in the  the primary and secondary lcvels
investmcnt in primarv and      of hcalth carc and also to stcp up
secondary lcvel facilities. This    allocations for thcsc lcvels. A
imbalancc nceds correction.    major portion of the incrcased
allocation Will go to the primary
and sccondary lcvels.
3. Redrcssing regional          The six districts of Gulbarga,  Through both project as well as
imbalances.                 Bidar, Bijapur, Raichur, Dharwad  non-project interventions, a policy
and Bellary show poor health   of positivc discrimination in favor
indicators due to uneven       of the underdeveloped districts
development in the health      and tribal areas within advanced
infrastructure and delivery of  districts will be followed to reduce
services.                      the existing imbalance. This
diffecrential policy is already under
implementation. Additional
rcsources arc being provided out
of the statc's own funds for filling
critical gaps in primary health
carc.
4. Quality of and access to     Quality of medical services arc  Quality and access will be
hospital services.          inadequate. In addition, access to  improved by: (i) upgrading and
health care services is limited,  expanding physical capaci ty; (ii)



53                                    Annex 2
Page 3 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Karnataka (continued)
Issue                           Effect               Proposed Change or Action
especially for populations in the    upgrading clinical effectiveness
least developed areas of the state,  and quality of services at
particularly women, scheduled   community, talauka and district
castes and scheduled tribes.    hospitals; (iii) improving the
referral system; and (iv) adopting
staffing and technical norms in
line w"ith the recommendations of
the high level committee. In
respect of scheduled caste and
scheduled tribes, access will be
improved through a system of
health cards and annual health
check-ups. Patients below the
poverty line who cannot afford
high cost treatment for serious
ailments such as oncologic and
cardiac disorders, will be assisted
through a specially constituted
society, to be financed by the state
Government.
5. Strategic planning.          Inadequate strategic planning   The capacity for strategic planning
capacity in the health sector has    will be enhanced through
resulted in sub-optimal use of  establishencnt of a Planning Cell
resources. Decisions on public  directly reporting to the Secretary
health spending priorities      Health and Family Welfare. This
presently do not take into full  will, either independently or
consideration the size and scope of through sponsored specific
services provided by private,  research projects: (i) study the
commercial and voluntary sectors,  role of the private sector; (ii)
the health manpower supply     review the suitability of present
situation and the predicted future   regulations; (iii)study the evolving
epidemiological profile in      epidemiological profile in
Karnataka.                      Karnataka; (iv) monitor the
burden of disease and recommend
cost-effective means for achieving
the best use of limited resources;
and (v) undertake periodic review
of the health manpower supply
situation and training needs in the
state. A study of the scope and
prospects of enlisting private
sector support for promotion of
health care at primary and
secondary levels will be



54                                       Annex 2
Page 4 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Karnataka (continued)
Issue                           Effect                Proposed Change or Action
________________________                           undertaken.
6. Workforce.                    Improvement of services at       No ban on recruitment will be
hospitals is significantly restricted  imposed with regard to recruiting
by workforce problems, both in   medical, paramedical and
terms of quality and quantity. The  technical staff. In a short period
number of staff sanctioned at   the problem of mismatching in
hospitals does not fit current   medical staff will be solved. The
needs. There are many vacancies   practice of deputing staff to non
due to poor and cumbersome       essential assignments will be put
recruitment procedures, and     to an end. Doctors will be
unimaginative personnel policies.  recruited on contract where direct
recruitment is slow. Doctors will
The distribution of medical      also be asked to serve a
specialists is not commensurate  mandatory period of six years in
with the need (e.g., a general  rural areas before being
surgeon in place of an          considered for postings at more
Obstetrician and Gynecologist).    preferred places. Since there is a
large number of lady doctors'
vacancics, participation by private
lady doctors in government
facilities will be encouraged.
7. The role of the private sector   The hcalth services development    Legislation will be introduced to
and voluntary organizations.   strategy of the Government has  regulate all medical institutions.
not taken sufficient account of the
scope and coverage of non-       Services offered in the private
Governmental providers and the    sector would be continuously
role of this sector in delivering  monitored, with a view to
quality health care.            improving the quality of such
services.
Referrals between private primary
care and public secondary care,
diagnosis and treatment would be
encouraged through district health
committees.
8. Role of the NGO sector.       NGO participation in health care   The Government will take
at all levels, especially at the  initiative in enlisting the effective
levels of public health and first  participation of NGOs in the area
referral, needs to be supported and  of primary and first referral health
encouraged, with a special focus    care. In remote tribal and
on the backwvard and remote      back-ward districts, NGOs will be
regions of the state.    _      encouraged to operate some
government facilities so as to
ensure the outreach of health



55                                         Annex 2
Page 5 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Karnataka (continued)
Issue                             Effect                  Proposed Change or Action
services to the disadvantaged
sections of the people. NGO
participation will also be
encouraged in special programs
for the socially underprivileged, as
_______________________________    also  in   IEC   activities.
9.  Cost sharing and service       Cost sharing has not been properly  The Government will set up a
improvements.                  implemented, resulting in low     working group to examine the
levels of funding for supplies,   issue of cost sharing (last revised
operations and maintenance.       in 1988) while protecting the
poorest sections of society. The
guiding principle for cost sharing
would be to partly cover non
salary recurrent costs.
In addition, adequate
administrative and organizational
mechanisms for implcmenting
schemes for cost sharing would be
put in place. A mechanism to give
back a major portion of revenues
raised by the institution will be
=______________________________  _______________________________  introduced.
10. Prevention and control of     The existing surveillance system   The project will establish an
major communicablc diseases.  is very weak, especially at the    effective surveillance system
secondary level and in urban      which will contribute to reducing
areas.                            morbidity and mortality rates due
to major communicable diseases.
I1. Contracting services.         Contracting services are under-    DOHFW Will monitor the cost-
utilized.                         effectiveness and quality of
existing contracted services.
Furthermore, the Government will
consider new proposals for
contracting-out health services,
especially support services such as
laundry, cleaning, manufacturing
I.V. fluids, etc.
12. Safeguarding the opcrations    The existing secondary hospitals  The state Government will make
and maintenance component    face operational deficiencies and    adequate provision in the health
of the health budget.         function poorly due to a lack of   budget for drugs and other
non-salary recurrent funds.       medical supplies, and for
maintenanec of equipment and
buildings.



56                                    Annex 2
Page 6 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Karnataka (continued)
Issue                         Effect               Proposed Change or Action
13. Consolidation versus       The state Government has been  Further expansion of beds and
expansion of institutions.  rapidly expanding the nunber of   hospitals will be strictly need-
subcenters, PHCs, CHCs, taluka   based, and will be undertaken only
level hospitals, and sub-district    after ensuring that existing
hospitals without focusing on  facilities are properly maintained
improving the physical facilities in  and utilized.
existing institutions.
14. Poverty alleviation.       About 40% of households are    The investmnent made in this
below the poverty line in      project, especially through special
Karnataka. In this group, health   programs for the disadvantaged
indicators such as mortality and    section (e.g., SC/ST and women)
morbidity rates, are especially  will aim at augmenting the
adverse.                      productivity/earning potential
through better health status.



57                        Annex 2
Page 7 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PSCM/96/402
*~~*.t   ' 'e.% ;gt Sd!. i
r ,  ;  \  . ,, >; ,i'.
- '                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~15-2-1996
Subject: Punjab Health Sector Developuent Program
Dear Mr.Hoinz Vergin,
The Government of Punjab and the Punjab
Health Systems Corporation have proposed to the IDA to
assist the State Health Systems Development Project II.
I am pleased to send you in this connection the
attached Policy Matrix reflecting Government decisions
in respect of health policy reform.
With regards,
Yours sincorely,
(G.P.S.Sahi)
Xr.Heinz V.rgin
Director, South Asia Country Department II.
The World Bank,
Washington D.C.              -



58                                        Annex 2
Page 8 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Punjab
Issue                          Effect                Proposed Change or Action
1. Increase the overall size of    Expenditure on health and family   Recognzing the link between the
the health budget.          welfare in Punjab is 5.3 1% of the   provision of basic health services
state revenue budget and 0.88% of  and poverty alleviation, the state
NDP in 1993/94. These health   Government will ensure that in
expenditures are inadequate to  each fiscal year during
provide essential primary health   implementation of the project, the
care together with a package of    share of overall budget (plan and
curative services.             non-plan), excluding all projects
specifically financed either
through external assistance or by
way of loan from national
financial institutions, or by way of
grant/loan from the Government
of India as per award of Tenth
Finance Commission, allocated to
the health sector, shall be
maintained at least at the level
allocated in FY94/95.
2. Allocate most of thc         Primary and secondary levels of    Punjab state, pursuant to the
incremental funds for the   health carc have not been       hcalth sector reforms, will ensure
health sector to primary and    receiving the requisite allocation   that within the allocations for the
secondary levels of care.   of funds. This has resulted in a  hcalth sector, the sharc of
shortagc of drugs, machinery   resources for primary and
equipment, other materials and  secondary levels of health care
supplies, lack of proper buildings   shall be increased in each fiscal
and poor maintenance of facilities.  year until FY02.
Imbalance in the allocation of
funds has led to duplication of
services and inefficient utilization
of meager resources.
3. Safeguard the operations and   The existing secondary level  T-'. 7  into account the budgetary
maintenance component of the  hospitals function poorly because   proi sion, the state Government
health budget.              of inadequate allocation of funds   and Punjab Health Systems
for operational and maintenance    Corporation will maintain
purposcs (30%-35%). 65-70% of  sufficient funds in the non-plan
the current budget goes to the  health budget for making available
salary component.              adequate supplies of drugs and
other material supplies at
secondary level hospitals, and for
maintenance of equipment and
buildings.



59                                         Annex 2
Page 9 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Punjab (continued)
Issue                          Effect                Proposed Change or Action
4. Service improvements and     Most of the services in public  The Government would issue
user charges.               health institutions are provided  regulations to facilitate Punjab
free of cost. Nominal charges are   Health Systems Corporation to
levied on only a few services, and  levy charges for certain services.
revenue collected is deposited in    These include paying beds,
the government treasury. The low   diagnostics and drugs and a
level of funds normally available   registration fee for inpatients.
is inadequate for supplies,    Existing systems for identiftying
operations and maintenance.    the poor (i.e., yellow card holders)
will be applied to exempt them
from paying charges and an out-
patient department purchee fee.
The user fees would be used
specifically for non-salary cost
purposes, as high proportions of
funds collected through user
charges would be retained at the
point of collection. Adequate
administrative and organizational
mechanisms for collecting user
charges would be put in place.
5. Private provision of health  The health scrvices developmcnt   The role of the privatc sector
care services and the role of   strategy of the Government has  would be continuously monitored;
the private sector.         not taken into account the scope    thc quality of services provided by
and coverage of health services  private practitioners would be
provided by the private sector.  assessed and regulations relating
Therefore, the Government is   to improvements in service quality
inhibited in prioritizing and  would be formulated. In addition,
rationalizing its investment in the   referrals between private primary
public health sector.          care and public diagnosis and
treatment would be encouraged
The Nursing Home Registration
Act would be implemented after
its approval by the Legal
Department.
In order to enable the private and
voluntary sector to contribute
effectively in providing health
facilities, the state Government
will encourage investment for the
establishment of health care



Annex 2
60
Page 10 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Punjab (continued)
Issue                           Effect               Proposed Change or Action
institutions in the private and
voluntary sectors. Private sector
investment would be expanded.
Dialogue has already been
initiated with the Housing
Department and local Government
in this regard.
6. Contract out selected services, At present, hospital support  Cost-effectiveness and quality of
especially supporting       services must be maintained by   existing services in hospitals will
services.                   regular staff recruited for this  be monitored. After review as
purpose. These employees have    appropriate, proposals for
not provided an efficient provision  contracting out selected services,
of support services, resulting in    especially support services, will
unclean hospitals, poor         be considered. These include
maintenance and upkeep of       laundry, canteen, landscaping,
hospital bedding, clothing, linen,   dietary services, sanitation and
furniture, etc.                 security.
7. Establishment of a Stratcgic   Inadequate strategic planning in    The state Governrnent will
Planning Cell.              the health sector has resulted in an  establish modern management
ineffective utilization of rcsources.  infornation systcms to upgrade
Earmarkling of funds for various    performance in health institutions
health schemes and programs at    with regard to (a) medical and
various levels of health care   health care; (b) inventory control;
presently does not take into full    (c) performance appraisal; and
consideration the size and scope of (d) financial management.
services provided by the voluntary  Appropriate technology will be
and private commercial sectors;    suitably introduced in the
the availability of existing    DOHFW and in the Corporation.
manpower and its development;
and the emerging epidemiological  Strategic planning in the health
profile in the state of Punjab.  sector will be strengthened by
establishment of a Strategic
Planning Cell in the Department.
This cell will be provided with a
Management Specialist,
Economist (with experienee in
health sector economics), Public
Health Specialist, Computer
Specialist and minimurn
administrative staff.
(Requirement 25 lakhs for 3
years.) This cell will, in addition
to working for intra- sectoral and
inter-sectoral coordination, either



61                                         Annex 2
Page 11 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Punjab (continued)
Issue                           Effect                Proposed Change or Action
independently or through specific
research activities, monitor the
role of the private sector;
formulate the regulations relating
to quality of care to be provided
by the private sector; analyze the
evolving epidemiological profile
in the state; monitor the disease
pattern and suggest the cost-
effective means for achieving the
desired objective within the
limited resources. The Planning
Cell will also undertake periodic
review of manpower availability
and training needs for its
development.
8. Surveillance system for the    In the absence of a properly   The existing system for
major communicable diseases.  developed surveillance system, it  surveillance of some diseases will
is not possibie to achieve, control,  be developed to ensure proper and
eliminate or eradicate some of the   systematic flow of information
diseases which are possible only   about major communicabie
%vithin a well dcveloped        diseases according to priorities of
surveillance system.            the state from most peripheral
level to the state headquarters and
also to the Government of India.
The surveillance system proposed
to be developed will ensure flow
of information from the village
level through functionaries of the
Health Department to the PHC;
from PHC/CHC to the district
level and then to the state
headquarters. Action as
considered appropriate will be
taken at the PHC/CHC lcvel,
district level and at state level.
Prompt investigation and
containment of outbreaks will
form a part of such a system. It
will help in the control,
elimination and eradication of
some of the diseases as per
commitment of the sstate with
Government of India.



62                                        Annex 2
Page 12 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Punjab (continued)
Issue                          Effect               Proposed Change or Action
9. Gender issues.               The sex ratio in Punjab is 882  For the last three years, activities
females per 1000 males as against  promoting the value of the girl
the national average of 927    child have been organized at the
females per 1000 males. The state  village level. Slogans have been
Government is determined to    coined in the regional language
reverse this trend. For this   (punjabi) upholding the status of
purpose, apart from strictly   the girl child.
regulating the practice of pre-natal
diagnostic techniques for medical
termination of pregnancy, an
incentive scheme for those
adopting terminal method of
sterilization after one or two
female children will be
___________________________ i_ inplemented.



63                           Annex 2
Page 13 of 17
u  LCakmbartI.
X,9s_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~aesn                                   vifb
Degaruient of                                           ,qfbq
Health 6 Family Wlare lf1 
Government of West Bengal
Peno ; :aa.aoi a -'.
Calcutta. the 8th reby. 1996.
___ NO.  P-30/96.
TO
Hz. HAlm. VorCli
Director Smda Departat,
The Werlnd   k
VaahiAqtOc D.C.  (Fax No, 20204776391)
SubJect s west  encaal mealth St:-s Devele.mt Prolect-ZI.
The  evOrnt of West se.qal, have p>oposed to 3A
* Project fox the d-lewo$ut of Ssc cma   Level Xouital
SerViCS In the State. X      saending herewitth a  atrx
ZVflecrtLn  GVernnt decleos in repect of dlfferit LAmeUO
OL health _ctor refom .
Your
No. H/P-30/96/1.        Dated. Calcut4a.Qthe Sth  ebruary. 1996.
Copy forwarded to Kr. Tawhld Kawaz, Senlor Eeanonit.
1Opulatton & 1ban ResourCes Dlvn. . UALi CAP untry DmA=t,
The World Ban), Washington D.C. (1OaL, for fawour of ifotion
(]Pax No. 2024770397)
(L. Chakrabarxti )
PrIcipal Secrevary.



64                                       Annex 2
Page 14 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
West Bengal
Issue                         Effect               Proposed Change or Action
1. Adequacy of the overall size   Allocation to public health and  Keeping in view the close
of the health budget to meet    medical care is about 6.1% of the   connection bet veen allocations in
public health goals and    state revenue budget and about    the public health sector on the one
development of a state-wide    1.10% of the GDP in 1994/95.  hand and poverty alleviation and
referral system.           These budgetary allocations are    enhancement of productivity in the
not enough to improve the      economy on the other, the
performance of the health care  Government will ensure that in
system through improvements in   each fiscal year during
quality, effectiveness and    implementation of the project, the
coverage of health care services at  share of overall budget (plan and
the first referral level and   non-plan), excluding all projects
selective coverage at the primary   specifically financed either
level.                        through external assistance or by
way of loan from national
financial institutions or by way of
grant/loan from the Government
of India as per award of Tenth
Finance Commision, allocated to
the health sector, shall be
maintaincd at lcast at the level
_________________________ __   _  allocated  in  FY94/95.
2. Inadequate allocation for   Though the expenditurc on      The Govcrnmcnt will cnsurc that
primary and secondary level   improvement of ovcrall health  the share of primary and
health care services in the  care services have been      secondary levels of health care
state budget.              increasing, investment in primary  services out of total resources
and secondary level health care    (plan and non-plan) allotted to the
services is inadequate to meet the   health sector shall be increased
requirement.                  each year throughout the life of
the project.
3. Management of construction   Existing primary and secondary    The Government will make
and maintenance.           level health care facilities face  adequate provision in the health
operational difficulties and   budget for operations,
function poorly, due to insufficient  maintenance, drugs and other
non-salary recurrent funds. At  medical supplies and for
present, DOHFW does not havc    maintenance of equipment and
much control over certain     buildings. The Government will
essential operational activities,    strengthen the role of the Hcalth
such as civil construction and  Department by providing
maintenance.                   autonomy in managing essential
operational activities such as civil
works, construction and
maintenance.



65                                        Annex 2
Page 15 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
West Bengal (continued)
Issue                          Effect                Proposed Change or Action
4. Management.                  Management of health care       Management of district, sub-
facilities in the state, particularly   divisional, state general and rural
at the secondary level, is     hospitals will be strengthened and
inadequate despite recent attempts  implementation capacities
for its improvement.           improved by: (i)
augmenting/strengthening the
administrative structure,
(ii)improving systems and
procedures, (iii) decentralizing
administrative and financial
powers, (iv) training, and (v)
improving IEC and MIS.
5. Inadequate health care       Poor health indicators have been    A separate project component to
services in remote and rural   recorded in the riverine arcas of    meet the basic health services in
areas.                      the Sundarbans. This is due     the Sundarbans has been proposed
largely to inadequate health care   (see Annex 16).
services and facilities in the
rcgion.
6. Strategic planning.          Inadequatc strategic planning  The capacity for strategic planning
activity has rcsulted in sub-  will be enhanced through the
optimal utilization of existing  establishment of a Strategic
resourccs.                      Planning Cell under the
chairmanship of the Secretary,
DOHFW.
This Cell will: (i) initiate
independent research projects, (ii)
study the role of the private sector,
(iii) review the suitability of
present regulations, (iv) analyzc
the burden of disease and
recommend cost-effective medical
interventions, (v) undertake the
study of the scope and prospect of
a health insurance scheme, and
(vi) undertake a periodic review of
the training and manpower supply
situation and the clinical needs in
the state.
7. Workforcc issues.           While there is no overall shortage   For manning hcalth centers and
of staff in the health sector, therc   hospitals in remote/rural areas, the
remains the problem of         Government will consider hiring
availability of medical        the services of medical



66                                        Annex 2
Page 16 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
West Bengal (continued)
Issue                          Effect                Proposed Change or Action
professionals in certain important   professionals on a contract basis.
skills. Rural hospitals in     Special incentives for doctors in
particular experience shortages of  rural areas, including housing, in-
medical officers because of the  service education programs, etc.
lack of adequate facilities and  will be implemented during the
incentives.                    project period.
8. Role of the private and      Traditionally, the activities of the   The Government proposes to
voluntary sectors.          private sector in providing health   enhance collaboration with both
care services in the state have  private and voluntary sectors
been limited and restricted mainly   wherever feasible in delivering
to Calcutta and its suburbs. Of    quality health services.
late, there has been some increase
in the number of private hospitals,
but the charges are high and out of
the reach of the common man.
9. User charges.                At present only 50% of          User fecs were last reviewed in
incremental charges are channeled  February, 1995. The Government
back to the hospitals, with the  has set up a committee to examine
exception of rural hospitals. The   the scope and coverage of hospital
mechanism for user fec collection   charges for diffcrent categories of
and use has not bee effectively  diagnosis, treatment and
implemented, resulting in a time-   admission. Exemption from
lag in utilization of funds collectcd  payment of such charges will
towards maintenance, supplies and  continue to be granted to families
operation.                     with a monthly income of Rs.
1500 or less. This will be done
through the issuance of indigent
certificates.
100% of charges collected will be
retained at the district level.
The Government has developed a
suitable mechanism under which
funds collected from user charges
will be retained in a separate
account to be operated at the
district level and allocated to the
hospital within the district on the
basis of need and level of revenue
collection.
10. Contracting out services.  At present, contracting out     While steps have been taken to
services is limited and there is  ensure optimal utilization of
scope for its expansion.       facilities, the Government has



67                                       Annex 2
Page 17 of 17
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
West Bengal (continued)
Issue                         Effect               Proposed Change or Action
decided where necessary to
contract out services like dietary,
transport/ambulance, laundry and
cleaning services as well as
services relating to waste
management to ensure cost-
efficiency and quality.
11. Enhancing the quality of   The quality of health care services  The role of both private and non-
private health care services.   provided by the private and non-   government sectors would be
government sector is of uneven  continuously monitored, the
quality and there is a need to  quality of services provided by
ensure minimum standards of   them would be assessed, and
services.                      regulations relating to service
quality would be extended. The
existing Clinical Establishment
Act of 1950 and the Rules of 1951
would accordingly be rcviewed
and amended as necessary.
12. Povcrty alleviation.       About 30.3% of thc rural       Investmcnt madc in this project
population and 20.7 of the urban    will contributc to povcrty
population (combined 27.6% of    rcduction by improving the
the total population) of the Statc   productivity and carning potential
live below the povcrty line.  of disadvantaged groups.
Furthermore, despitc somc welfarc
programs taken up recently,
women and SC/ST populations in
the state continue to be in a
somewhat disadvantageous
position.



a



68                                        Annex 3
Page 1 of 12
PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON THE HEALTH SECTOR
I.     The purpose of this appendix is twofold. First, it presents the past trends in selected aspects of public
finances in general and expenditures on health and family welfare services in particular in the three project
states of Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal. As part of the exercise, total health expenditures have been
disaggregated and re-classified by level of service. This analysis then formns the base for a limnited exploration
of the burden of the incremental recurrent recurrent costs of the project for each state, the resulting shifts in the
structure of health expenditure and the conditions for financial sustainability.
State Finances
2.     Trends in the level and composition of public expenditures on health and family welfare should be
seen against the backdrop of the overall developments in state government finances - both prior to the
economic and fiscal crises of 1991/92 and during the period of adjustment. Through the 1980s, overall state
governnent revenues grew at a slower rate than expenditures leading to the emergence of revenue deficits and
the growth and changing composition of fiscal deficits. In the more recent period, state finances have been
influenced both by the nature of macroeconomic adjustment, which affects overall tax revenues, and by fiscal
adjustment by the Central government which has affected the size of the Central governnent's transfers to
states, in particular the grant component.
3.      The combined gross fiscal deficit of the states was equal to 3.0 percent of GDP in 1986/87 and to
3.2 percent in 1993/94. Calculations of individual state deficits as a proportion of their own state domestic
product suggest that for the eleven most populated states the average increased slightly from 4.2 to 4.3
percent betxveen 1990/91 and 1994/95. Differences between statcs, however, are quite substantial. Table I
presents the data for the three project states, Karnataka, Punjab and Wcst Bengal from 1990/91 to 1993/94.
In each, the deficit has fallen as a share of state income but it has been significantly higher in Punjab than in
cither West Bengal or Karnataka.
Table 1: Gross Fiscal Deficit as Proportion of State Domestic Product
Project States 1990/91 - 1993/94
_____    1990/91                 1991/92             1992/93              1993/94
Karnataka           -5.2                -5.5                -4.7                 -3.7
Punjab              -8.5                -6.5                -6.3                 na
West Bengal         -6.0                 -4.2                -3.4                -3.8
Note: Measurement of state domestic product may differ slightly between states. This may affect comparisons between states but
not trends within states. No estimate of SDP for Punjab in 1993/94 is available.
4. The gross fiscal deficit largely reflects the combined balances in the revenue and capital accounts.
Between 1980/81 and 1986/87 a deficit on the aggregate states' revenue account occurred in only one year.
Since then, deficits have occurred in each year. Although trends in the revenue deficit are unfavorable for all
states combined, the position of individual states again is far from uniform. Kamataka has had relatively
small revenue deficits in recent years and estimates for 1993/94 suggest a small surplus (Table 2). As a
percentage of Net State Domestic Product (SDP), the revenue deficit/surplus was -0.6% in 1991/92 and
+0.6% in 1993/94. Punjab has had more substantial revenue deficits, both in absolute terms and as a share of
SDP. In 1991/92 and 1992/93, they were equal to -2.4% and -2.2% of SDP respectively. The revenue deficits
of West Bengal have also increased since 1989/90 though not to the extent as in Punjab.



69                                        Annex 3
Page 2 of 12
Table 2: Revenue Deficit as Proportion of State Domestic Product
Project States 1980/81 - 1993/94
1980/81     1985/86     1989/90     1990/91      1991/92     1992/93     1993/94
Kamataka   +1.0         -0.8         -0.8        -0.4        -0.7        -0.6         +0.6
Punjab      +0.4        +0.1         -1.5        -3.3        -2.4        -2.2         n.a.
W. Bengal  -0.3          +0.5        -1.8        -3.2        -1.8        -1.6        -2.1
Note: SDP figures taken from State Directorates of Economics and Statistics; Kamataka SDP figures from 1990/91 onwards supplied by
Govt. of Kamnataka
Source: Reserve Bank of India Bulletin (various issues).
5.     As a consequence of increased revenue deficits in general, the nature of the fiscal deficit, and hence the
borrowing requirement, has changed. Whereas, previously, borrowing had been required only for covering
deficits in the capital account, by 1994/95 over a quarter of the borrowing was to cover deficits in the revenue
account.   This indicator is particularly revealing of the financial health of state governments, since it
represents the pre-emption of borrowed funds for meeting current expenditures. In Punjab, the revenue deficit
contributed over 50% of the GFD in 1992/93 and was budgeted to be about 34% in 1994/95. In West Bengal,
the revenue deficit was 43% of GFD in 1992/93 and was scheduled to rise to over 62% in 1994/95. In
Karnataka, the revenue deficit was 12 percent of the GFD in 1992/93 but made no contribution to the fiscal
deficit in the following two years.
6.     Of the three states, the overall state finances of West Bcneal and Puniab seem to be most precarious.
Kamataka has a relatively comfortable budgetary position compared to the two other states. Some further
consideration is given to these issues in the final section of the anncx.
Trends in Expenditure on Health and Family Welfare
7.    In all three project states, government health and family welfarc cxpenditures are well below the
intemational norm that is considered adequatc to meet public hcalth priorities (World Development Report
1993); and below the levels required to achieve the service norms set by the Government of India (India:
Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services). Punjab spends less than 0.9%
of state domestic product (SDP), Kamataka about 1.3% and W. Bengal about 1.1% (Table 3). In addition,
compared to the early and mid 1980s the shares have declined in two of the three states. The decline has been
especially steep in West Bengal, where health expenditures fell from around 1.5% of SDP in 1980/81 to 1.0%
in 1992/93; and is estimated to be about 1.16% in 1993/94. In Punjab, the share dropped from around 1.1% of
SDP in 1980/81 to 0.9% in 1992/93. In Karnataka, the share is back at the same level as in the early 1980s (at
around 1.3% of SDP).



70                                     Annex 3
Page 3 of 12
Table 3: Expenditures on Health and Family Welfare as % of SDP
80/81   85/86   89/90      90/91    91/92    92/93   93/94   94/95
_____                            ~~~~~~~~~~~R.E.    B.E.
Kamataka        1.26     1.33    1.25      1.18     1.11     1.29     1.29     1.40
Punjab          1.09     1.00    1.04      0.99    0.91      0.88     n.a.    n.a.
W. Bengal       1.54     1.28    1.17      1.35     1.07      1.03    1.16.    1.10
Note: SDP figures taken from State Directorates of Economics and Statistics; Karnataka SDP figures from 1990/91
onwards supplied by Government of Karnataka.
8. Per Capita Expenditures on Health. Measures of aggregate resources devoted to public sector health
programs do not convey the absolute levels of real expenditure per capita (Table 4). Despite the relatively
low share of public resources devoted to health in Punjab, real per capita expenditures have been the highest of
the three states and have been maintained at roughly the same level since 1980/81 (between Rs. 30-35 per year
at 1.980/81 prices). Per capita expenditures which were lowest in Kamataka - between Rs 20-25 per year at
constant prices during the 1980's have risen since 1991-92 to around Rs. 30. West Bengal displays the most
disturbing trend. The fall in real expenditures per capita has become pronounced in recent years (from Rs. 25
per year in 1980/81 and Rs. 26 in 1990/91 to Rs. 22 per year in 1993/94).
Table 4: Per Capita Expenditures on Health and Family Welfare
(in 1980/81 Rupees)
80/81    85/86   89/80     90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94   94/95
R.E.    B.E.
Karnataka       19.00    22.12   26.00    24.12   25.01      27.83   30.20   33.31
Punjab         29.13  I 31.95   38.06     36.18  1 34.12     33.60  T 33.30   31.16
W. Bengal      24.63    21.50   22.36      26.07   21.37     20.99   21.97   20.95
9.     Despite these differences between the three states, the per capita expenditures in all three states are
low. In 1993/94, per capita expenditure at current prices was Rs. 100 in Punjab, Rs. 90 in Karnataka and Rs.
72 in West Bengal (between US$ 2-3 per capita). These expenditures are well below the norms required for
the minimum package of health services as described in the World Development Report, 1993. They are also
substantially below the norms set by GOI, which would require a 50 percent increase in budgetary allocations
over the current level (India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services,
Grey Cover Report No. 13042-IN, May 15, 1995).
10.    Effects of Fiscal Adiustment on Health Budgets. Spending on health and family welfare grew at
around 12-13% per annum in nominal terms in the three states between 1980/81 and 1990/91. In real terms,
annual growth rates were in the range of 2.8% to 4.4%. Expenditures grew most rapidly in Kamataka,
followed by Punjab and West Bengal (Table 5).
11.   The consequences of the economic and financial difficulties at the start of the 1990s and the resulting
adjustment measures have differed across the three states. In West Bengal and Punjab, cxpenditures fell in real
terms in the first year of adjustment. While there has been a partial recovery in Punjab, the level of



71                                      Annex 3
Page 4 of 12
expenditures previously attained in West Bengal have yet to be regained. Expenditures fell by 16% in real
terms in 1991/92. Although the growth rate increased in subsequent years, the absolute level of real
expenditures in 1993/94 was still below that of 1990/91. In Punjab, the nominal growth rate in 1991/92 was
positive, but real expenditures fell by almost 4%. Real growth in subsequent years was very small so that
again the level in 1993/94 was (slightly) below that in 1990/91. Karnataka, on the other hand, has sustained
high growth rates both in nominal and real terms, resulting in higher real expenditures in 1993/94 when
compared to those attained in 1990/91.
12.   It would appear, therefore, that the effects of the fiscal crisis and the consequent adjustment measures
on the overall budgetary position of Punjab and West Bengal were passed on to the health budget resulting in a
decline in real expenditures. Given the relatively low level of expenditures on health particularly in West
Bengal, these trends are of concern. Special mechanisms may be required to protect and raise the level of real
expenditures on health in these two states.
13.     Share of Budgetary Resources Devoted to Health. Health and Family Welfare budgets in the three
states generally absorbed less than 10% of the total state revenue budgets throughout the 1980's (Table 6). In
each state the share has declined over time suggesting that during the period of adjustment past trends have
been exacerbated, rather than reversed. This decline in shares occurred despite the rise in real per capita
expenditures in all states up to 1990/91, indicating that total state government expenditures rose even faster
than health expenditures. Since 1990, the budget share has increased in Kamataka (from 6.1 to 6.4%), but
fallen further in West Bengal (from 8.4 to 7.2%) and in Punjab (from 6.6 to 5.3%).
Table 5: Real Growth Rates in Health Expenditures -
Project States 1980/81 -1993/94
(annual in %)
Karnataka           Punjab              W. Bcngal
1980/81-90/91               4.38                 4.30                 2.80
1991/92                      5.66                -3.80                -16.23
1992/93                      13.36               0.50                 0.41
1993/94 R.E.                 10.57               1.12                 6.95



72                                     Annex 3
Page 5 of 12
Table 6: Share of Health and Family Welfare Sector in Total State Revenue Budget
80/81   85/86   89/80    90/91    91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95
R.E.     R.E.
Kamataka        7.87    6.53     6.51    6.12      5.96    6.44     6.43     n.a.
Punjab          9.00     7.19    7.76     6.60     4.32    5.78     5.31     n.a.
W. Bengal       12.05    8.90    8.01     8.44     7.32    7.55     7.15     6.10
Composition of the Health Budgets
14.   The allocation of spending between primary, secondary and tertiary level facilities and services is not
readily available in state budget documents. The approximate shares can be obtained only by reclassifying
individual line items. This exercise has been undertaken in varying degrees for each state.
15..   West Bengal. The total health budget in West Bengal for the years 1989/90 to 1994/95 has been re-
classified under five heads: (i) primary health care, (ii) rural hospitals and dispensaries, (iii) urban health care
facilities, (iv) items of general expenditure and (v) medical education (Table 7). Primary care comprises
expenditure on public health, family welfare, rural health services (allopathic and non-allopathic) and urban
non-allopathic services. Expenditure on Employee's State Insurance has been placed under urban health care
facilities since the scheme covers workers in the organised sector of industry, which is mainly located in urban
areas.



73                                  Annex 3
Page 6 of 12
Table 7 West Bengal: Composition of the Health Budget
(as % of total)
J 89/90    90/91     91/92     92/93     93/94      94/95
I. Primary care           39.66     38.19     40.30     38.55     40.53     39.24
MNP                       6.40      -         -         -         -         -
Subsidiary centres        1.73      -         -         -         -         -
Other                     3.01      1.03      0.008     0.006     0.004     0.004
Rural health serv.    (non-  1.42   1.02      0.009     0.009     0.009     0.009
allopathic)
Urban health serv.        -         0.006     0.007     0.007     0.008     0.009
(non-allopathic)
School health scheme      -          -         -         -        -         -
Public Health             12.42     13.77     13.02     12.25     12.48     12.28
Family Welfare            12.93     12.36     13.38     13.0      14.59     13.09
PHCs                    1 1.73      9.32      11.33     10.92     11.15     11.40
II. Rural Hospitals   &  3.90       2.42      190       2.2       2.13      2.24
Dispensaries
III. Urban facilities     40.00     40.12     43.16     43.16     42.52     43.50
Urban    hospitals    &  32.49      33.38     35.40     36.67     34.20     34.96
Dispensanres
Employees' State Insurance   7.5    6.74      7.75      6.98      8.32      8.54
IV. General               10.34     12.23     8.15      8.62      7.46      7.48
Direction & Admn.         3.15      3.58      3.75      3.85      3.25      3.32
Medical store depots      6.4       5.43      4.03      4.51      3.86      3.81
Other exp.                0.006     3.03      -         -         -         -
V. Medical Education and  6.12      7.01      6.47      7.44      7.34      7.52
Training
Total (Rs. crores)        322.77    445.2    386.96    426.55    502.11    539.46
Source: Govt. of West Bengal, Budget Documents.



74                                       Annex 3
Page 7 of 12
16.    According to this reclassification, primary health care absorbed around 40% of the health budget in
1989/90 and this share has been maintained subsequently. The share for urban (secondary and tertiary)
facilities increased from 40% to 43.5%. The share for medical education and training also rose marginally
from 6% to 7.5% in 1994/95.
17.    Rural hospitals and dispensaries (the Community Health Centres) have received the lowest share of
expenditures and this has been reduced almost by half since 1989/90 (from 3.9% in 1989/90 to 2.2% in
1994/95). Recent sector work has demonstrated that there is considerable underfunding nationally of this
segment of the health services in relation to both needs and prescribed norms (India: Policy and Finance
Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services). Moreover, it appears that these services have been
under the greatest pressure in recent years.
18.    The share of general expenditures has also decreased, from 10% to 7.5%. This is almost entirely due
to the reduction in the share for medical stores and depots, which declined from 6.4% to 3.8%. Thus, in
addition to rural hospitals, expenditure on drugs and other consumables has also borne the brunt of
expenditure contraction during the period of adjustment.
19.   In order to determine the broad allocation of resources across different categories of inputs and
different levels of hospital services, the composition of non-plan expenditures on hospitals and dispensaries in
West Bengal during the last three years was examined. Urban hospitals were divided into two categories,
tertiary and secondary. Hospitals in metropolitan centers and speciality hospitals were designated as tertiary,
while all district urban hospitals were designated as secondary. The results are presented in Table 8. The level
of expenditure on urban secondary and tertiary hospitals is broadly similar. Expenditure on rural secondary
hospitals is only one ninth of that on urban secondary hospitals.
20.   In urban tertiary hospitals, salaries and wages account for about two-thirds of revenue expenditure.
Although there was a slight reduction in 1993/94 (to about 60%), the budgeted sharc rosc to 65% in 1994/95.
Expenditure on materials and supplies (including drugs) comprise around 9-10% of the total, although again
there was a slight dip in 1993/94. Machinery and equipment absorbed over 5 % of the total in 1992/93 and
4.7% in 1993/94. Expcnditure on diet rose from less than 6% to 9%. Expenditurc on maintenance has been
negligible, but this understates the overall maintenance expenditure on buildings which is included in the
budget of the Public Works Department. The remaining share of expenditure is absorbed by overhead costs
and by aid to non-government hospitals (about 10% and 3-4%, respectively).
21.    The expenditure pattern is broadly simnilar in urban secondary hospitals, with about 75% going
towards salaries. Apparently, expenditure on materials and supplies fell quite dramatically in 1992/93 (to less
than 5%), rising to around 9% in subsequent years. Expenditure on machinery and equipment is 2%, while
expenditure on diet has increased to about 7%. It would appear that in urban secondary hospitals, the share of
salaries was protected with the budget cuts of 1992/93 borne by drugs and consumables.
22.   In rural secondary hospitals, the share of materials and supplies fell to 1% of the total in 1992/93,
while the share of salaries was 75%. In the following two years, however, the share of salaries and wages was
brought down drastically to less than 60%; salary expenditure actually fell in absolute tcrms, probably
indicating that vacancics were not filled. The share spent on materials and supplies rose to over 12%.
However, since the absolute expenditures on rural hospitals hardly increased in this period (and real
expenditures fell), the rise in the share does not indicate any significant improvement in availability of drugs
and consumables though it does indicate an attempt to restore the le.els of spending attained earlier.



75                                     Annex 3
Page 8 of 12
Table 8 West Bengal: Composition of Spending in Hospitals and Dispensaries
1992/3 - 1994/5 (Rs. Crores)
Urban Tertiary         | Urban Secondary        Rural Secondary           l
92-93    93-94  94-95  92-93  93-94   94-95   92-93   93-94   94-95
Salaries and Wages    66.1     60.1   65.0  1 74.9   74.5   74.1    75.3    58.3    59.8
Materials & Supplies   10.2    8.7    9.3    4.6       9.5     8.9     1.0    12.7    11.9
Machinery       and   5.2      4.2    4.7    1.2    1.7        2.0     2.8     4.2     4.5
Equipment
Motor Vehicles        0.2      8.0    0.1    0.3    0.3        0.3     1.0     0.4     0.4
Diet charges          5.9      7.1    8.0    3.2    6.6        6.7     7.9    15.8    15.0
Maintenance          0.03      0.06   0.06   0.02    0.02    0.02      -       -       -
Aid  to  non-govt.  2.7        2.8    3.0    0.9    0.9        0.9     -       -       -
hospitals                    I               I                       I       I
Office Exp & Oth.     9.7      9.1    9.9    14.9    6.5       7.1    11.9    8.5      8.5
Total (Rs. crores)   74.49    87.58  88.30  76.82  83.85   91.82   8.43    9.48    10.06
Note: Total refers to Non-Plan spending only. 1993/94 expenditures are revised estimatcs and 1994/95 expenditures are budget
estimates.
Source: West Bengal, Budget Documents.
23.     Karnataka. Again, budget allocations were disaggregated-and rc-classified into functional activities:
primary health, family welfare, secondary and tertiary health, medical education and training, and
administration. The percentage distributions from 1990/91 to 1994/95 are described in Table 9.
Table 9 Karnataka: Distribution of Health Care Revenue Expenditures by Level of Care
1990/91-94195 (%)
Function        1990/91         1991/92          1992/93         1993/94         1994/95
Administration   2.6            2.9             2.2              2.2             2.1
Medical         9.1             9.8              10.5            8.7             10.1
Education                      l               l               l _l_l
Secondary   &  34.3             34.8            32.5             35.9            33.0
Tertiary       IlI                                              I               I              I
Public Health    38.3           34.3            38.4             37.2            37.7
| FamilyWelfare  15.7          | 18.2            16.4            16.1            17.1        j
24.     Throughout the period, primary health care and family welfare have absorbed around 53 percent of
the total health budget. Secondary and tertiary care combined have absorbed betwecn 33 and 36 percent and
medical education and training, around 10 percent. The most notable change in shares has been for family
welfare. For this activity, nominal expenditures increased by 23 percent a year compared to the lowest growth
rate of 16 percent for secondary and tertiary care and 18 percent for primary health care. It is of interest to
note that family welfare is a 100% centrally sponsored scheme.



76                                       Annex 3
Page 9 of 12
25.     Complicating the disaggregation of allocations in Karnataka is the substantial degree of
decentralisation to the district councils (Zilla Parishads) While most of the health functions of the councils
relate to primary health care and family welfare, they also include community and some district hospitals.
From a review of the budgets of one Zilla Parishad from 1990/91 to 1994/95, the share for these facilities
appears to have fallen from 23 percent to 5 percent. If this is typical, the rural hospitals in Karnataka have
been under severe and increasing pressure similar to the apparent case in West Bengal.
26.     Punjab. Health expenditures for Punjab were re-classified under primary, secondary and tertiary
health care. Primary care was defined as including primary health centers, sub-centers, services from non-
allopathic systems of medicine (apart from teaching), family welfare (apart from MCH, included at the
secondary level), disease control programs, drug control, public health laboratories and paramedical training.
Secondary care includes MCH, community health centers and district hospitals. Tertiary care covers the
teaching hospitals. The composition of health expenditures between these three levels of service is described in
Table 10. According to the breakdown, an average of 61 per cent of expenditures are allocated to primary
care, 27 percent to secondary and 12 percent to tertiary. Over the five year period, however, some changes
have occurred. The shares for primary and tertiary health care have fallen by 5 and 1.5 percentage points
respectively while the share for secondary care has increased by 6.5 percentage points.
Table 10 Punjab: Distribution of Health Revenue Expenditures by Level of Care
1990/91 - 1994/95 (%)
Function        1990/92          1991/92         1992/93         1993/94         1994/95
[Primary         63.5             60.9            65. 9           56.9            58.4
Secondary       23.0            26.5             21.8            31.8            29.6
}Terfitiary    1 13.5            12.6            12.3            11.3            12.0
27.     The data prepared for Punjab also allow for some analysis of items of expenditure. For each level of
care, salary items dominate. In 1994, salaries absorbed 77, 70 and 67 percent of primary, secondary and
tertiary care expenditures. Materials, supplies and cquipment absorbed 10, 25 and 18 percent respectively.
Over time, there are no clear trends in these distributions.
Project Financial Sustainability
28.      The project's financial sustainability depends on the ability and willingness of the state governments
both to conmmit resources for the continuation of project activities at the end of the project period and to
support adequately those non-project activities upon which the project activities depend. The level of recurring
costs and the level, composition and trend in health expenditure will have an important bearing on financial
sustainability. Because of the size of the project in each state, some consideration of the states' overall public
finances are required.
29.    Karnataka. The incremental recurring costs of the project, including contingencies, at the end of the
project period are estimated at Rs. 360 million. In 1994/95, total revenue expenditures in the Department of
Health and Family Welfare were Rs. 4,872 million. Since 1991/92 these have been increasing at a real rate of
9 percent a year. Over the previous decade, expenditures rose by 4.4 percent a year. Assuming continuation of
the overall trend since 1980/81 (5.2 percent) , expenditures in the year following the end of the project will be
around Rs. 6,950 million. Incremental recurring costs of the project will be equal to 5.2 percent of total
expenditures of DOHFW and 100 percent of the total trend departmental incremental expenditures in that



77                                      Annex 3
Page 10 of 12
year. If the incremental recurrent costs of the project were to be funded in addition to the 'normal' increase
this would imply an increased share for health of total government revenue expenditures of around 0.3
percentage points (from a current level of 6.4 percent).
30.    In practice, the incremental costs are likely to be met partly through the trend increase and partially
through additional resources allocated to the sector. While the incremental project costs are clearly sustainable
on the basis on maintenance of past trends in overall departmental expenditure, they would lead to some
restructuring of overall health allocations in the absence of a significant proportional increase in expenditures
at the secondary health level. (While not all of the project expenditures are for secondary health activities, the
majority are. The same is true for Punjab and West Bengal). An approximate calculation of expenditure on
secondary health in 1994/95 suggests a total of Rs. 848 million. Projecting this forvard to the end of the
project period at a real rate of growth of 5.2 percent a year, expenditures would be Rs. 1,209 million. If
project incremental expenditures were financed in addition to the trend increase in health allocations, these
would add 30 percent to the total expenditures on secondary health and would be equal to over five times the
'normal' increment in that year. (In fact, such a sharp jump would not occur in one year since part of the
incremental recurrent cost burden e.g. salaries, will be funded on an increasing basis through the project's life
by the state). Assuming no other changes in the composition of health expenditures, the allocation to secondary
health would increase from around 17 to 22 percent of the total.
31.    Is there any reason to expect that the high growth rates of health expenditures over the past fifteen
years cannot be maintained as a result of deterioration in the states overall financial position? The revenue
account in 1993/94 was in surplus. The gross fiscal deficit is equivalent to 17 percent of revenues - one of the
smallest among the major states. Interest payments on debt accounted for 11.6 percent of total revenue
expenditures in 1992/93 rising to 12.7 percent in 1994/95. Public debt was equal to 26.3 percent of state
domestic product in 1990/91 and to 27.0 percent in 1994/95. The indicators of public finances in Karnataka
show some slight deterioration over the past few years as a result of incrcased borrowing for capital
expenditures but overall demonstrate a picture of reasonable strcngth.
32.    The financial implications of the project for the statc govcrnment includc the neccssity to scrvice the
loan, as well as the incremcntal recurring expenditure. Including contingencics the projected loan is Rs. 6,458
million - this represents 4.7 percent of the currcnt outstanding debt of the state government. Given the
currently relatively low share of interest payments in total revenue expenditurcs (second to lowest among the
eleven major states) the additional burden arising from this project should be manageable.
33.    Puniab. Punjab is India's wealthiest state with per capita income twice that of West Bengal and 1.7
times that of Karnataka. The incremental recurring costs of the project at the end of the project period are
estimated at Rs. 150 million. Total expenditure on health in 1993/94 was Rs. 2,202 million. Through the
1980s real expenditures on health increased by an average 4.3% a year. Bctween 1991 and 1993 real
expenditures fell and growth since then has been marginal. Assuming that expenditure growth recovers to
1980s levels, total health expenditures in the year following the end of the project wvill be Rs. 2956 million.
Incremental recurring costs of the project will be equal to 5.1 percent of total expenditures and around 1.2
times the annual addition to departmental expenditure. However, the growth trend in total state government
revenue expenditure since 1990/91 has been around 5.5 percent a year. If in the future, the share of health
expenditure in total expenditures can be maintained and the latter continue to increase by the recent growth
rate of 5.5 percent a year then the total hcalth allocation at the end of the project period would be Rs. 3,203
million with an annual increment of Rs. 176 million - almost 20 percent higher than the project's incremental
cost in that year. If the incremental cost of the project is financed in addition to 'normal' increases, the share of
health in total revenue expenditures would increase by 0.2 percent (from a current level of 5.3 percent).



78                                      Annex 3
Page 11 of 12
34.    If the share of health expenditures in total expenditures is maintained together with the increases in
overall expenditures at least at the trend of the 1980s, the project's sustainability should be attainable.
Financing incremental recurrent project costs through the 'normal' growth in allocations would, however, lead
to some change in the structure of health expenditure. Currently, secondary health services consume roughly
30 percent of the total, or around Rs. 660 million (with 58 percent for primary care). Projecting these
expenditures to the end of the project period (assuming a constant share of total expenditure for health and
continuation of the 1980s trend in total expenditures) the allocation would be Rs. 960 million with a 'normal'
increase in that year of Rs. 63 million. The required project incremental expenditure would be almost two and
a half times as large. Hence the need for reallocation. Assuming no other changes in the composition of health
expenditures, the allocation to secondary health would increase from the current 30 percent to 34.5 percent.
35.    How feasible is the assumption of overall revenue growth in the state being equal to the level of the
1980s? The deficit on the revenue account was estimated at 13.5 percent of revenue receipts in 1994/95 and
to 23 and 24 percent in the two previous years. The gross fiscal deficit has been equal to 40-45 percent of
revenue receipts over the past three years - the highest for any state. Interest payments on the state
government's debt as a share of total state revenue rose from 12.5 percent in 1985/86 to 37.2 percent in
1994/95 - the second highest among the eleven most highly populated states. Revenue growth from state taxes
has been buoyant in recent years and well above that for all states combined. However, additional efforts will
be required both to increase revenue receipts further and to restructure expenditures if growth in social sector
real expenditures is to revive. The relative wealth of the state suggests that increased revenues should be
possible to generate.
36.    West Bengal . The incremental recurring expenditures at the end of the project period are estimated at
Rs. 250 million. The total revenue allocation for the Health Department in 1995/96 is Rs. 5,570 million. Real
growvth rates in health expenditure through the 1980s averaged 2.8 percent a year. In 1991/92 real
expenditures fell by 14 percent. Since then they have risen by an average of 2.9% a year. Assumning a
continuation of this trend, revenue expenditures in the year following the end of the project will be Rs. 6,803
million with a 'normal' increment in that year of Rs. 197 million. Project incremental recurring costs would bc
just over 3.7% of total revenue expenditures on health or around 1.25 times the 'normal' increment. However,
ovcrall trends in government revenue expenditures in recent years have been above those in health. If, in future
years, the health sector maintains its share of total expenditures and the trend in total expenditures over the
past three years is maintained (7.9 percent), the health allocation in 2001 would be Rs. 8,790 million, with a
'normal' increase of around Rs. 694 million. Project incremental costs would then be equal to 36 % of the
'normal' annual increase. The incremental project costs imply an increased share of total government revenue
expenditure for the health department of 0.3% (the current share is 7.2%).
37.   In order for the project incremental expenditures to be accommodated relatively easily at the end of the
project without a sudden large increase, the share of overall health expenditures should increase at a rate at
least as fast as total revenue expenditures. If that occurs, the costs should be sustainable. If the growth rate of
health sector allocations was to continue to be substantially below that of overall expenditures, the question of
project sustainability would be more ambiguous.
38.    The project is likely to result in an increased share of health expenditures for secondary level services
(unless overall expenditures increase at a very rapid level). Expenditurc on secondary health in 1994/95 was
equal to 25 percent of total health expenditures, around Rs. 1,400 million (with 45 percent for primary care).
Maintaining a constant share of total government expenditures at the recent trend rate would lead to an
allocation of Rs. 2,384 million at the end of the project period. If project incremental costs were financed in
addition to the trend increase, these would add an additional 10 percent to this total and the share of secondary
services would increase to almost 30 percent of total health expenditures million. To the extent that the



79                                        Annex 3
Page 12 of 12
incremental expenditures are financed through the nornal trend increase, the share for secondary services
would increase further.
39.    How feasible are the assumptions regarding increases in health sector financing? The deficit on the
revenue account was equal to 19 percent of revenue receipts in 1994/95 (the highest ratio across the 15 major
states). This has increased from 14 percent in 1991/92. The gross fiscal deficit is currently (1994/95) equal to
30 percent of revenue receipts. Interest payments on the state government's debts were equal to 19.1 of revenue
expenditures in March 1995. This is slightly above the average across the major states (18.0 percent).
Outstanding debt is equivalent to 22.6% of state domestic product which is slightly below the average. Efforts
are underway to improve state public finances. The fiscal deficit in 1995/96 is anticipated to be below the
previous years' and as a share of revenue receipts is planned to fall to 27%. Further efforts to increase
revenues and to alter the structure of expenditure obviously will be necessary to reverse the relatively weak
position of public finances in general and the deteriorating situation of finances for the health sector in
particular.
40.    The project will add 4.5 percent to the current debt of the state government (Rs. 5,969/13,081
million).
41.    Summarv. The position of public finances in Karnataka and rccent trends in expenditure on health
both suggest that the project's incremental recurrent costs are sustainable. In Punjab and West Bengal,
however, continuation of recent trends in health expenditures would not be sufficient to absorb the incremental
costs. In both cases, the rate of growth of health expenditures in recent years has been below the growth rate
of overall expenditure. If health expenditures can be maintained at least as a constant share of overall
expenditures throughout the life of the project, the risks of sustainability would decrease significantly. Punjab
and West Bengal will need to enhance their contributions to the health scctor. In the case of Punjab, the
necessary resourccs needed to sustain this commnitment can be mobilised with small increasc in tax effort. In
the case of West Bengal, some reoricntation of its fiscal policies may be required to cnsure sustainability.



80                                    Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
COSTS AND EFFICIENCY OF FIRST REFERRAL VERSUS
TERTIARY LEVEL HOSPITAL CARE
1.     The Annex estimates the costs and efficiency of treating patients at a first referral hospital
compared to a tertiary hospital. It deals specifically with two issues: (i) the overall unit costs related to
specific inputs for in-patients and out-patients at first referral versus tertiary hospitals; and (ii) costs
and efficiency comparisons of first referral versus tertiary level hospitals for a sample of interventions.
One of the rationales for the project from an economic efficiency point of view is that the unit costs of
treatment can be reduced considerably by providing health care services at lower level facilities where
unit costs for comparable services are lower. The analysis in this Annex will, therefore, test whether
this hypothesis is true; and if it is accurate, what would be the approximate magnitude of the cost
savings if diagnosis and treatment of conditions that are possible to be addressed at secondary level
facilities are indeed taken care of at that level, rather than at the tertiary level.
2.     During project preparation, service norms at different level facilities throughout the system
were streamlined and rationalized in each of the three states. This will make it possible to provide
diagnosis and treatment services at an appropriate level facility in a cost-effective manner. Therefore,
the "without" project scenario is one in which a substantial number of diagnosis and treatment services
would continue to be done at tertiary hospitals; and the "with" project scenario is one in which many of
these services can be performed at first referral hospitals.
3.     Analysis comparing cost-effectiveness betwveen different typcs of hospitals is limited in India,
because of the unavailability of data. However, due to variations in the case-mix, it is difficult to
comparc cost-effectiveness comparisons between these categories of hospitals. Also, because more
serious and complicated cases are admitted at tertiary hospitals, the length of stay and treatment costs
tend to be higher at tertiary hospitals. Previous analysis has shown that between 2540% of costs could
be savcd by treating patients at first referral facilities rather than at tcrtiary hospitals. The data used in
such analysis have been much more broad-based and have tended to overlook somc of the problems
noted herc. Moreover, such analysis did not compare similar services.
4.     A preliminary analysis was undertaken during the preparation of the project and is the initial
part of a much broader study being undertaken as part of our sector work on "Comparative Analysis of
State Health Systems Reform in India." The analysis here estimates cost savings of treating patients at
a first referral hospital compared to a tertiary hospital in Hyderabad. The reason for choosing hospitals
in Hyderabad was because of the availability of accurate cost data and the comparability of the services
provided. These hospitals were the Suraj Bhan hospital, a first referral facility and the Sultan Bazaar
Matemity hospital, a tertiary hospital attached to the Osmania Medical College in Hyderabad. Both
hospitals provide antenatal, intranatal and Family Planning Services in addition to gynecological care.
The case-mix at the two hospitals is more or less similar- where a major chunk of the in-patient facility
is utilized by obstetric and family planning cases which constituted about 40% and 30% of in-patients,
respectively during the past 2 years in both the hospitals; about 11% of the in-patients were constituted
by patients' admitted for gynecological problems and procedures; and a roughly equal proportion of in-
patients had complicated obstetric care. One difference, however, was the higher utilization of out-
patients at Suraj Bhan (first referral) Hospital, with a much higher number of out-patients per in-patient
(6 to 1) compared to the Sultan Bazaar Matemity Hospital (1.2 to 1).
5.     Estimation of Costs. The recurrent costs for the Sultan Bazaar Hospital were taken from the
budget books, and the recurrent costs of the Suraj Bhan Hospital were taken from hospital records and



81                                       Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
grants received from the Government. The recurring expenditure under different heads for three
financial years for both the hospitals is presented in Tables 2 and 3. Since both hospitals come under
different administrative systems, cost heads do not exactly match, and information on some heads is not
being routinely compiled by these institutions. However, at an aggregate level both data sets represent
average recurning costs.
Table 1: Recurring Expenses of Suraj Bhan Hospital
(Costs in Rs.)
Head of Account         1992-93             1993-94            1994-95            Average
__________________   __________________                        ~~~93-95
Pay & Allowances        1,641,124          2,397,259          2,656,855           2,527,057
Rent rates and           50,263             80,419             69,214              74,817
Taxes
Water and                23,776             17,514              17,534             17,524
Electricity
Cleanliness              5,274               3,624              2,650              3,137
Charges
Stationary, Imprest      13,687             15,496             12,111              13,803
& other
Contingents                                                                                     l
Maintenance              10,869              9,935              19,143             14,539
Electrical Goods         73,709             65,037             57,247              61,142
Drugs and                1,326               1,973              5,632              3,803
Medicine                                                                                       l
Drugs & Supplies        425,000            467,500             514,250            490,875
Provided from
Headquarters
Diagnostic and Lab       2,812              2,532               4,999              3,765
Material                               _
Surgical                 1,380              3,060                767               1,914
Instruments
Uniform                  48,648             40,855             39,578              40,216
Diet                       0                91,250             91,250              91,250
Total                  2,297,868           3,196,454          3,491,230          3,343,842



82                                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: Recurring Costs of Sultan Bazaar Hospital (Rs.)
Head of Account          92-93               93-94              94-95             Average
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _9 3 -9 5
Pay & Allowances       5,055,000           5,862,000          7,110,000           6,486,000
Service Postage            0                  0                 3,000               1,500
Water and                  0                  0                597,000            298,500
Electricity
Other Office             33,000               O                90,000              45,000
Expenses.
Rents and Taxes          70,000             29,000             112,000             70,500
Publications             15,000             50,000              15,000             32,500
Machinery and           172,000            1,546,000           150,000            848,000
Equipment
Motor Vehicles and         0                157,000               0                78,500
Other Expenses
Maintenance                0                581,000             9,000             295,000
Materials and           1,450,000          1,397,000          1,400,000           1,398,500
Supplies
Diet                       0                220,000            220,000            220,000
Total                  6,795,000           9,842,000          9,706,000           9,774,000
6.     Estimation of Capital Costs. Capital costs, however, were more difficult to estimate, as both
hospitals are located in old residential structures that were converted several decades ago. In addition,
the equipment is relatively old. Hence, it was not possible to arrive at precise capital costs. An
approach suggested by WHO for estimating capital costs' was used. This included a detailed listing of
existing capital resources of both hospitals, namely building (arca), equipment (major, minor and
surgical) and furniture. The current costs of these capital resources were applied to the existing
facilities of both hospitals. For each capital facility the mean duration of utility was arrived at by
obtaining expert opinion. Exarnples from the Indian context were taken to arrive at a capital facility
with a mean duration of use and the annual capital cost component.
Andrew Creese & David Parker, Cost Analysis in Pinmary Health Care: A Training Manual for Programrne Managers;
WHO, Geneva 1994.



83                                      Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Table 3: Estimation of Annual Capital Costs (Rs.)
Capital       Description          Current Costs          Mean       Estimated Capital Costs
Facility                                                Duration           per Annum
or Use in
Years
Sultan       Suraj                    Sultan        Suraj
Bazaar       Bhan                     Bazaar         Bhan
l Equipment  Major             4,287,100    1,050,100      10         428,710       105,010
Minor              187,000      90,000         5          37,400        18,000
Surgical           230,000      67,000         1         230,000       67,000
Furniture    (, Rs. 8720/bed   1,395,200     436,000       10         139,520       43,600
Building    @ Rs. 400 per     15,290,0002   6,960,8003     50         305,800       139,216
Area        Sq. Feet__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                          _ _ _ _ _ _
Total Capital Costs per Annum                                        1,141,430      372,826
2
Sultan Bazaar Hospital: Total Building Area 38,225 Sq. Feet
3
Sultan Bhan Hospital: Total.Building Area 17,402 Sq. Feet
6.Estimation of Unit Costs. Since the hospitals studied provide both in-patient and out-patient services,
a comprehensive index which captures both types of services was applied to arrive at a unit cost figure.
The day equivalent method which equates the cost of one in-patient day with four out-patient visits was
used. Using the case equivalent method, the unit cost for each hospital was calculated. The results are
shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Estimation of Unit Costs for 1993-95 (Rs.)
Description                Sultan Bazaar Hospital           Suraz Bhan Hospital
Average IP                                  52,516                          12,199
Average OP                                  62,150                          79,962
Case Equivalents                            68,054                          32,190
Annual Recurrent Costs                     9,774,000                       3,343,842
Annual Capital Costs                       1,141,430                        372,826
Total Annual Cost                          10,915,430                      3,716,668
Cost per Case Eguivalent                      160                             115
2 Andrew Creese & David Parker, Cost Analysis in Primnary Health Care: A Training Manual for Progranmme Managers;
WHO, Geneva 1994.
3 Howard Barnun & Joseph Kutzin; Public Hospitals in Developing Countries, published for the World Bank by The John
Hopkins University Press.



84                                      Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
7.     As data on in-patients and out-patients were available only for two years (1993-94; 1994-95),
the analysis applies only to this period. The results indicate that day equivalent at the Suraj Bhan
secondary hospital is about two-thirds that of the Sultan Bazaar Maternity Hospital. The results are
similar to other studies which found that services at secondary level facilities can be provided more cost
effectively than at tertiary hospitals if it is technically possible to provide these services at the secondary
level. In other words, there can be considerable cost savings if services that can be provided at
secondary level facilities are provided at those facilities rather than at tertiary hospitals. The main
reason for this at the two hospitals studied was largely because of greater unit costs of infrastructure
and overheads at tertiary hospitals.
8.     A review of several studies undertaken by Barnum et. al. also concluded that within a country,
tertiary hospitals tend to have higher average costs than the less technically complex district level
hospitals. However, they did not analyze unit costs for similar types of services provided. These results
are merely indicative, and apply only for two hospitals. However, they do illustrate the fact that
streamlining and rationalization of services can result in considerable cost savings.






85                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
USER CHARGES AND COST RECOVERY
1.    The principle of implementing user charges more rigorously for both inpatient and
outpatient diagnostic and treatment services in hospitals has been adopted by the Governments of
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal. The Governments regard cost recovery as a way of
augmenting public resources for healthcare, though not for substituting for them. Responsibility for
meeting the incremental recurrent costs of the project has been accepted by each Government.
Three-quarters of total health expenditures in India already are made directly by patients to private
doctors and hospitals. Studies show that the poor are disproportionately represented among the
users of public hospitals. Full cost recovery in the public sector is neither feasible nor desirable.
Equally, however, each government has adopted the principle that those patients who are able to
pay for services in public hospitals should do so to some degree and that revenues should be of a
size to have a significant effect on funding non-salary recurrent costs. Therefore, the system of
user fees proposed by each state is a combination of voluntary payments and targeting of the poor
for exemption.
2.    In summary, the guiding principles for implementing user charges will be to: (a) recover a
part of the costs of inpatient hospital services from those patients who can afford to pay, while
protecting the poorest sections of society; (b) charge all outpatients a nominal fee partly to
improve record-keeping and partly to raise moderately hospital income (Punjab and West Bengal);
(c) concentrate charges on voluntary services such as private rooms or wards and on medical
services with a relatively low cost-effectiveness; (d) enable hospitals to retain all or part of the
revenues collected by them (Punjab) or to empower district health committees (West Bengal and
Karnataka) to retain the revenues and redistribute them amnong hospitals within the district
according to both need and level of collection; (e) ensure that revenues are used for non-salary
recurrent items. In the absence of quality improvements, new or increased charges could lead to
reduced demand for hospital services with an overall reduction in revenues. Increased charges will,
thereforc, be introduced in a phased manner and matched to higher qualhcy levels of services. Somc
would be appropriate immediately. Others would need to await improvement in services and
infrastructure.
3.     While the general principles are common across the three states, there are variations in the
way they will be implemented. The programs of each state are described below, followed by an
indicative example of the levels of revenue which might accrue.
Karnataka
4.     Outpatient charges. Currently no charges are made for outpatients. A recommendation is
before the Govemrnent to implement an annual Rs. 2 registration fee. The intention is both to
encourage patients to keep a record of their treatment and to raise revenues. Charges of Rs. 5 are
currently made for issuing health certificates. Half the revenue is retained by the doctor and half
retained by the government. Such charges represented 40 percent (Rs. 41 million ) of total revenues
collected by the Department of Health and Family Welfare during 1992-93.
5.    Inpatient charges. The last revision of charges was made in 1988. Patients who are a
mernber of a family with an annual income of above Rs. 8,000 a year arc meant to be charged Rs.
2 per day for a bed in a general ward. Daily charges for four, two and single bedded rooms are Rs.
5, Rs 7.5 and Rs. 15 respectively. Of total hospital beds, paying beds currently constitute only



86                                  Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
around 4 percent (600 out of 17,500). Fees for medical services are also listed and they are also
graded. Patients in special wards are meant to pay full fees while those in paying general wards
should pay 50 percent of the fee. Patients in general wards pay no fees. Average annual revenues
from all charges over the period 1990-93 were Rs. 66 million -- equivalent to under 2 percent of
total DOHFW expenditure. If all the charges were in practice being levied, revenues would be
greater than those actually collected. Recommendations are before the Government to introduce a
small registration fee (with no exemption), to revise the charges for paying beds and to increase
their number through the designation of 20 percent of all additional beds. Revisions of charges for
treatment will be undertaken during the project but the immediate priority is to increase the
collection of existing charges.
6.     Exemption for the Poor. A criterion for exempting the poor has been proposed by the
Government. The Government proposes to use the existing green/tricolor card system within the
Public Distribution System (PDS) in the state, which is used to provide nutritional support through
issue of subsidized grain, as a basis for exemption from user fees. Green card holders are also
entitled to subsidized cloth and kerosene. All poor families with an annual income level of Rs.
11,850 or below (i.e., the nationally accepted norm under the JRY program) are entitled to such
green cards. Comprehensive surveys of the rural population were undertaken in the past for
identifying the beneficiaries. As of now, the rural population with an annual income of Rs. 1 1,850
or below has been provided with green cards. This includes special categories of underprivileged
populations like landless agricultural laborers, village artisans, small and marginal farmers, old-
age pensioners, widow pensioners as well as the urban poor. The green card facility has recently
been extended to the non-notified slums. The number of green card holders in the state are about
5.3 million compared to the 9 million ration card holders of the PDS system. The Government has
provided assurances that it will carefully monitor the green card system as a basis for exemption
from user fees and ensure that leakages are minimized.
7.     Revenue administration. The main reason why charges are under collected at hospitals is
that the revenues currently revert to thc Government treasury, where they become part of general
revenues. There is no direct incentive for collection. The Government is taking necessary action to
ensure that the receipts will be fully transferred to District Health Committees and be reallocated
between hospitals in the district on the basis of both need and level of revenue collection.
Punjab
8.     Outpatient charges. Currently, a charge of Rs. 2 is made for outpatients. A Government
Order giving notification of (among other things) Rs. 5 registration fee was prepared in early
1994, but is still pending. The Government provided assurances that it would implement the
enhanced outpatient charges as quality improvements are effected through the project. In addition,
it has proposed to establish 'pay clinics' in government hospitals to be operated after regular
hospital hours by government doctors. Of the fees, 50 percent would be retained by the doctor and
50 percent retained by the institution.
9.     Inpatient charges. The Government Order also established sets of fees for inservice
medical facilities. These included charges for special wards in district and sub-divisional hospitals,
daily visiting charges by doctors and for laboratory investigations such as X-ray, diathermy, ECG,
CT scan and ultra sound and for various categories of,urgery. The proposed charges are higher
than those proposed in the other two states and the coverage of treatrnents wider.



87                                 Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
10.    Exemption for the Poor. Exemptions to the charges noted above include state govemment
employees and members of families holding yellow cards which signify a family income of below
Rs. 11,850 based on the JRY norms. New lists of families eligible for these cards have begun and
will have been completed by negotiations. Total revenue raised by DOHFW in 1993/94 was Rs. 25
million or just over I percent of expenditure. According to the National Sample Survey 1987/88,
almost 50 percent of hospitalized cases are in non public hospitals. The average payment per case
in these institutions was Rs. 1,200, indicating a willingness to pay arnong the general population.
Because of the higher income level in Punjab, the ability and willingness to pay for services is
greater than in the other two states. As a result, there exists considerable opportunity to increase
revenue collection through increased charges and better collection methods.
11.    Revenue administration. The Government has determined that revenues will be retained by
the institution of collection for the purpose of non-salary recurrent expenditures.
West Bengal
12.    Outpatient charnes. A structure of hospital charges was implemented with effect from
November 1992. Among the changes implemented was an outpatient charge of Rs. I per
prescription slip, an OPD ticket which is used on average 3 times, for teaching and district
hospitals. In 1995, a Governnent Order was issued to cover all subdivisional hospitals in the
Calcutta Municipal Corporation and all polyclinics in Calcutta. There are no exemptions for these
OPD charges. Charges for most tests and diagnoses exist -- in the range of Rs. 10 to Rs. 50 - but
few are collected. A review body is currently considering some new charges. The Government
provided assurances that extension of charges to state general hospitals will be considered upon
improvement of services under the project.
13.   InDatient charges. The review of 1992 also resulted in an upward revision of charges for
private beds, diagnostic services and surgery in district and sub-divisional hospitals. Fees are
charged for 10 percent of beds (mostly in special wards). As a result of sevcral perceived
anomalies in the structure of fees, these were again revised and extended in early 1995. Paying bed
charges in general wards are Rs. 10 a day in most tertiary teaching hospitals and Rs. 6 in state,
district and sub-divisional hospitals. Separate room charges are Rs. 30 and Rs. 16 respectively.
Charges are made for diagnoses and for surgery for those in private beds and wards. The majority
of charges are below Rs. 50 apart from those for endoscopy and CT scan. More recently, another
review has been initiated which, in addition to surveying the levels of charges, is attempting to
rationalize them across both the secondary and tertiary sectors. Regarding paying beds, the
Government proposes to enhance these to 30 percent of all beds at district, state general and sub-
divisional hospitals. A further extension to rural hospitals will also be considered. Another avenue
of user charges are the polyclinics in urban centers manned largely by doctors of teaching
hospitals. These provide mainly outpatient services and charge Rs. 16-20 per visit. In 1994/95, the
largest of the polyclinics generated almost 15 percent of recurrent costs with a similar amount
being paid to the doctors. Revenues generated by all.charges are currently equal to just under 3
percent of total DOHFW expenditure.
14.    Exemptions for the Poor. The existing system for exempting the poor in West Bengal is
based on an 'Indigent Certificate' from the local elected reprcsentative, given to families with an
income level below Rs. 1,500 per month. The West Bengal Government proposcs to use this



88                                Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
criterion rather than the JRY criterion because the latter does not apply to large portions of the
urban population of West Bengal.
15.    Revenue administration. Provisions exist for the Government, through the Finance
Department, to reallocate 50 percent of the incremental funds collected through user charges to the
collecting institution. The procedures, however, are said to be very tortuous and are rarely used.
The Government has provided assurances that it will take necessary actions to ensure that revenues
collected through user charges at the district, state general, sub-divisional and rural hospitals will
be retained at the district level to be reallocated amongst hospitals in the district based on both need
and level of revenue collection.
Potential Revenues From User Charges
16.   In each of the three states, review bodies to consider the structure and implementation of
user fees in hospitals exist and proposals are being actively considered. Here, an indicative
example is developed of the potential revenue that would be generated through the implementation
of the types of user charges now being discussed and implemented. Sets of alternative assumptions
are used. The example is based on information for Karnataka.
17.    Paving beds and wards. Currently, total bed strength is 14,858 at secondary hospitals. Of
these there are around 400 paying beds in the district hospitals and 200 in the tertiary, teaching,
hospitals. The project will add 3,832 additional beds. Another 1,400 beds will be added through a
planned KFW project. Of the additional beds it is proposed that 20 percent will be paying beds. In
secondary level institutions, the total number of paying beds will incrcasc from around 400 to
almost 1450.  As was described above, there are different bed charges depending on the number
of beds per room. Currently, the average charge is Rs. 6 per day. It is intended to increase the
charges considerably. Assuming that charges for 2 and I bedded rooms average Rs. 50 per day and
for 4 and 6 bedded rooms, Rs. 20 per day, that onc quarter of the beds fall under the first category
and two thirds under the latter and that occupancy rates remain at around the current level of 85
percent, the increase in revenuc would be:
Table I: Project Revenue from Paying Beds and Wards
Current:     400 beds       x      310 days     x         Rs. 6 =  Rs. 0.7 m.
Future:      362 beds       x      310 days     x         Rs. 50 =  Rs. 5.6 m.
1088 beds      x      310 days      x        Rs. 2u =  Rs. 6.7 m.
Total    Rs. 12.3 m.
Increase: Rs. 11.6 m.
18.    Charges for Diagnostic Services and Surgery. A proposal is currently being considered by
the Government to charge a registration fee (Rs. 5) for each in-servicc case. The most recent
estimate, for 1992, is of 900,000 cases a year. The fee (if applied with no exemptions) would raise
Rs. 4.5 million. Thc charges being discussed for diagnostic scrvices and surgery in Karnataka tend
to vary according to whether the patient is in a special ward or the gencral ward. It is proposed that
one set of charges would apply to all those in paying beds while those in general wards (but with
an income of over Rs. 11,850 a year) would pay half that rate. Obviously, in setting charges for



89                                    Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
patients in special wards care will need to be taken to ensure that the combined higher quality of
room and services can justify the additional charge. Otherwise, patients will either opt for the
general wards or for private sector treatment and the paying beds will be underutilized. Currently,
while there is a schedule of charges, last revised in 1988, few are collected owing to the lack of
institutional incentive previously described. The charges in Kamataka, similar to those being
proposed in West Bengal, suggest a level of Rs. 45 for minor surgery and Rs. 100 for major
surgery. Charges for some forms of diagnosis are higher but apart from scans etc. few are above
Rs. 300.
19.    The total number of inpatient cases in Karnataka is estimated to be 900,000 a year. Those
inpatients below the defined poverty line and therefore to be exempted from charges are estimated
at 30 percent -- 270,000 patient cases. Of the remaining 600,000 or so cases, six percent or 36,000
will be in paying beds. The remaining 564,000 would be in general wards. Assuming that one-
quarter of patients require major surgery and the rest require minor surgery, the annual revenue
from the charges would be:
Table 2: Projected Revenue from Major and Minor Surgery
Patients           Major Surgery           Minor Surgery            Revenue
36,000 in paybeds    9,000 x  Rs. 100 +     27,000 x Rs. 45 =    Rs.   1.3 m.
564,000 in general   141,000 x  Rs. 50 +    423,000 x Rs. 23 =    Rs.  17.0 m. wards
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Total   Rs.   18.3   m .
Ovcrall, increased revenues from inpatients might be around Rs. 11.6 million for bed charges, Rs.
4.5 million for registration fees and Rs. 18.3 million for diagnostic scrvices and surgery: a total of
Rs. 34.5 million.
20.    Outpatient charges. A recommcndation to charge a registration fee (covering a year or
until the registration card is filled up) of Rs. 2 for outpatients without exemptions is being
considered by Government. In 1992, roughly 10 million cases were registcred. Revenue would be
Rs. 20 million.
21.    Other charges. Forty percent of departmental revenues are currently generated through
charges for health certificates. The charge is Rs. 5. A proposal to double the charge is being
considered. This would increase revenues from this source from Rs. 41 million to Rs. 82 million a
year.
Summary
22.    Annual recurrent expenditures for secondary health services are expected to be Rs. 1,560
million at the end of the project period. The mcasures described above could gencrate around Rs.
136 million, equivalent to almost 9 percent of the total or over 29 percent of all non-salary
recurrent expenditures. This amount of additional rcsources could have a significant effect on the
levels of scrvice quality provided by secondary health care institutions. In these computations, the
existing charges for treatment have been utilized. Revenues generated from these would provide
only one quarter of all revenues and are much less than those arising from increased charges for
certificates etc. The charges of Rs. 45 and Rs. 100 for minor and major surgery respectively might
be compared to the average private expenditure on an episode of hospitalization in a rural private



90                                    Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
hospital in 1986/87 of Rs. 733 (NSSO). The estimated revenues from user charges, therefore,
should be regarded as being at the low end of the potential range. There remains considerable
opportunity to review and enhance charges for minor and major surgery, while making sure that
appropriate mechanisms for protecting the poor are in place.
23.    These calculations are mainly illustrative. While the decisions have been made in each
state both to increase the role of user charges and improve the system of implementation,
Governments have yet to implement all aspects of the levels and coverage of charges that would
yield this level of revenue. The results, however, do indicate the potential which exists to augment
government resources for health services through a few relatively simple measures. The immediate
priority is to implement the existing patterns of charges more effectively and to monitor the use and
effects of the revenues on health services.



91                                     Annex 6
Page 1 of 20
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.    Project management arrangements in the three states have several commnon elements and some
differences. In Karnataka and West Bengal, the project will be managed and implemented by the Department
of Health and Family Welfare (DOHFW) which will be strengthened under the project to address increased
investment at the primary and secondary levels of health care. In Puniab, the project will be managed and
implemented by the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC), which was established as an Act and
promulgated as an Ordinance on October 20, 1995. The aim of the Corporation is to establish, expand,
improve and administer medical care at the secondary or first referral level in Punjab. Chart I of this Annex
shows the functional levels of project management that apply across all three states.
2.     The project management arrangements proposed in each state have taken account of the existing
organizational set-up of the Health and Family Welfare Department, the health programs being currently
implemented by the Department and the overall set-up of public administration in the state, especially with
regard to the nature of decentralized administration in each state. The management structure proposed in each
state would assist in implementing a health system both efficiently and effectively. This Annex describes in
detail the project management arrangements to implement the project in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal.
Karnataka
3.     A Proiect Goveming Boar (PGB), at the top of the management structure, includes high-level
representation from all relevant parts of the state Govemment that would be associated with the project. The
PGB is fully empowered to make major policy decisions and develop the broad policy outlines for the project
in Karnataka; approve the annual budget; authorize major project revisions as necessary; ratify decisions made
by the Steering Committee; formulate rules and regulations; and undertake an annual review of project
implementation and monitor overall project progress. The PGB would meet twice a year.
4.     The PGB would delegate adequate powers to the Steering Committee to carry out its functions as the
nodal body for project implementation. The Secretary, DOHFW, would be the Chairman of the Steering
Committee and the Project Coordinator.  The Steering Committee will supervise and monitor project
implementation, undertake planning activities and facilitate project management activities. It will report to the
PGB (Chart 2).
5.     The Proiect Management Cell would be headed by an Additional Secretary, [AS cadre, who would
serve as the Project Administrator. This officer would report directly to the Secretary, DOHFW. An
Additional Director (Health Systems, World Bank) would assist the Coordinator and Administrator in day-to-
day operations.  Under the Additional Director, a Technical Wing would assist in carrying out project
implementation. A Joint Director (Hospitals), who would be a Senior Medical Officer, and who has
considerable field experience of working in hospitals of all levels, would be in charge of the medical and
technical aspects of the project. This official would be supported by four Deputy Directors: Deputy Director
(Training and Referral); Deputy Director (Hospitals North); Deputy Director (Hospitals South); and Deputy
Director (HMIS). They will maintain the project profiles in respect of all 202 institutions being taken up
under the project, prepare Action Plans for each institution and be responsible for the continuous
implementation and monitoring of progress for each component of the project. Thc position of an Additional
Director for the Gulbarga region would be created to implement the KfW project and will be financed by the
KfW project. This officer will report to the Project Administrator to foster collaboration between the World
Bank and KfW projects and facilitate the functioning of the overall health system.



92                                    Annex 6
Page 2 of 20
6.     A Desiggn and Engineering Wing in DOHFW, headed by a Chief Engineer, would be responsible for
designing, supervising and monitoring all the facilities to be renovated/extended under the project. The budget
for civil works will be directly released by the project management to this wing, which would be fully
accountable to the project authorities. Administratively, this wing will function as part of project staff. The
Chief Engineer would be supported by two Superintending Engineers, and an adequate complement of
Executive Engineers, Assistant Executive Engineers and Junior Engineers in the various districts. The
Superintending Engineer of World Bank supported IPP-IX will also report to the Chief Engineer. A Senior
Architect, specialized in hospital design, would be responsible for reviewing hospital design. He would report
to the Additional Director (Health Systems Project) for administrative purposes and to the Chief Architect of
the state for all technical issues. Equipment Management arrangements incorporated in the project are
described in Annex 10.
7.     A Strategic Planning Cell (SPC) headed by an Additional Director (Planning), would report directly to
the Secretary, DOHFW. The SPC would monitor the critical issues in the health sector in the state by
commissioning studies, workshops and seminars, and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities.
These issues would include monitoring the development of the private health sector; reviewing suitability of
present regulations regarding the quality of private care provision; analyzing the evolving epidemiological
profile in the states; evaluating the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions;
reviewing medical manpower and reviewing the implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms and sectoral
resource allocation patterns.
8.     At the district level, a District Health Committee/Proiect Implementation Cell would facilitate
functioning of the referral system, the collection and redistribution of user charges, maintenance of equipment,
waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance, surveillance of communicable diseases, and
the monitoring and supervision of all project activities (Chart 3). It would ensure that user charges would be
implemented more rigorously at all hospitals. A post of Resident Medical Officer (RMO) for each district
hospital has been created. The RMO will take over the managcment of the district hospital, thereby enabling
the District Surgeon to take on an expanded set of responsibilities, including monitoring the functioning of the
referral system; planning and implementing the training component at the district level; supervising all
hospitals outside the purview of the Zilla Parishad; and managing and supervising the equipment maintenance
facility at the district level. The counterpart of the District Surgeon for non-hospital health and family welfare
services at the district level is the District Health Officer, who will continue to implement all state and national
health and family welfare programs. The District Surgeon would be supported by a social worker, mass media
officer, junior engineer and an assistant controller of finance and accounts in implementing the project at the
district level.
Punjab
9.     At the top of the management structure of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) would be
the Board of Directors. whose ex-officio Chairman would be the Secretary, DOHFW (Chart 4). The Board of
Directors would consist of 13 members: 7 ex-officio members, including the Secretary, DOHFW; Special
Secretary and Managing Director of PHSC; Secretary, Finance; Sccretary, Rural Development and
Panchayats; Secretary, Local Government; Director, Health Services; a Representative from the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, GOI; and 6 nominated members. The Board of Directors would have powers to
formulate policies for the Corporation, make regulations, borrow money and levy fee for services, and would
be responsible for overseeing the overall management of the Corporation. The Government of Punjab would
have the powers to issue directions to the Corporation in matters of policy, inspection and control, monitoring,
and accounting.



93                                     Annex 6
Page 3 of 20
10.    The Proiect Management Cell would be headed by Special Secretary, IAS Cadre, who would be the
Managing Director of the Corporation. The Project Management Cell would undertake all aspects of project
implementation, including routine management, monitor progress, maintain flow of funds and project accounts,
provide general administration and technical guidance and prepare progress reports. The Managing Director
would be assisted by an Additional Managing Director and five other Functional Directors: Administration and
Personnel; Medical Management, Medical Services, Engineering Services, M & E and HMIS and Financial
Management. The Additional Managing Director would be responsible for Administration and Personnel and
would be supported by a Manager for personnel matters relating to doctors, two Assistant Managers and four
Assistants. He will also be responsible for purchase of non-medical equipment, stationary and other office
equipment and will be supported by an accountant and an assistant in the performance of these functions.
Another Assistant would also support him on matters relating to purchase and maintenance of vehicles.
11.    The Director for Medical Management would be supported by four Joint Directors - one for referral,
quality assurance and medical audits, one for ensuring linkages with national programs, one for waste
management and surveillance of communicable diseases and one for purchase and distribution of drugs and
medical supplies. These Joint Directors would be supported in the performance of their functions by the
necessary Deputy and Assistant Directors. The Director for Medical Services would be supported by a
Manager, personnel (nurses and paramedics), a Joint Director for training, and a Joint Director for the
purchase of drugs and medical supplies. The Manager and three Joint Directors would be supported by a
number of Deputy and Assistant Directors for performing specific functions. The Director for M&E would be
supported by a Deputy Director for IEC and a Deputy Director for M&E and performance indicators. The
latter would be supported by two Research Officers/Statisticians.
12.    The Director for Engineering Services would be responsible for both civil works as well as equipment
management and maintenance matters. He would be supported by a Superintending Engineer (whose level
would be that of a PWD, Building and Roads Superintending Engineer) and three Executive Engineers under
him. The three Executive Engineers would be responsible for public health (water supply, sanitation, pipes
and fitting, sewerage, anesthetic and oxygen systems), electrical matters (wiring, equipment, etc.), civil works
and building maintenance. Each of the Executive Engineers would be supported by two Subdivisional
Engineers. For civil works and building maintenance, two additional Junior Engineers and an Accountant
would also be recruited.
13.    The Director for Financial Management would be responsible for revenue, audits and accounts. He
would be supported by two Deputy Managers, one for Audit and one for Accounts/Revenues. The Deputy
Manager for Audit will be assisted by two Assistant Managers, one for Pre-Audit and one for Post-Purchase,
and by four Auditors. The Deputy Manager for Accounts/Revenues would be responsible for banking,
ledgers, user charges, flow of funds and salaries. He would be assisted by two Accountants and one Assistant.
14.    A Stratezic Planning Cell (SPC) would report to the Secretary, DOHFW  through the Managing
Director, PHSC. The SPC would monitor the critical issues in the health sector in the state by commissioning
studies, workshops and seminars, and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities. These issues
would include monitoring the development of the private health sector; reviewing suitability of present
regulations regarding the quality of private care provision; analyzing the evolving epidemiological profile in
the states; evaluating the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions; reviewing
medical manpower and reviewing the implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms and sectoral resource
allocation patterns.
15.    At the district level, a District Health Committee/Proiect Implementation Cell (chart 5) would be the
nodal implementing agency. It would facilitate functioning of the referral system, ensure maintenance of



94
Annex 6
Page 4 of 20
equipment, manage hospital waste, train technical staff, provide quality assurance, undertake surveillance of
communicable diseases, monitor and supervise project activities, and collect and redistribute user charges at
the district level. The Civil Surgeon would be the Deputy Medical Commissioner and Chairman. The
Committee would be composed of the District Development and Panchayat Officer; District Horticulture
Officer; Executive Engineer, Municipal Corporation; Senior Medical Officer; and Municipal Health Officer as
official members, and two members from the hospital welfare committee as non-official members. The Deputy
Medical Commissioner would be assisted by an Assistant Medical Commissioner and by a Medical
Coordinator, Administration and a Health Coordinator, Training -- the former for administration, procurement,
surveillance, waste management and referral, and the latter for training, records, and HMIS. In addition, the
District Coordinator would be assisted by a Social Worker, a Mass Media Officer, a Junior Engineer, an
Assistant Controller for Finance and Accounts and a Superintendent of Office.
West Bengal
16.    A  Project Governing Board (PGB), at the top of the management, will include high level
representation from all relevant parts of the state Government that would be associated with the project. The
West Bengal structure is simnilar to the one in Kamataka (Chart 6). The PGB will be fully empowered to make
major policy decisions and develop the broad policy outlines for the project in West Bengal; approve the
annual budget; authorize major project revisions as necessary; formulate rules and regulations; facilitate
project management activities; and undertake an annual review of project implementation and monitor overall
project progress. The PGB would meet twice a year.
17.    The Secretary, DOHFW  will be the project coordinator. The Project Management Cell would be
headed by a Special Secretary, DOHFW, who would be the Project Director. The Project Management Cell
would undertake all aspects of project implementation including routine management, monitor progress,
maintain flow of funds and project accounts, provide general administration and technical guidance and
prepare progress reports. Because of the large volume of work, the Project Coordinator and the Project
Director would receive additional support for implementing the project by two Special Officers - one for
medical and for non-medical activities. The Project Director would be supported by five Additional Directors:
Administration and Finance; Engineering and Civil Works; Health and Medical I; Health and Medical II;
HLMIS and IEC. The Additional Director for Administration Finance would be a non-medical person and be
responsible for recruitment, non-medical purchase, vigilance, financial audits, accounts and revenue matters.
The Additional Director for Engineering and Civil Works would be responsible for supervision and
monitoring of civil works and architectural designs and management and maintenance of equipment. The
Additional Director for Health and Medical I would be responsible for personnel matters, training, quality
assurance program and medical audit. The Additional Director for Health and Medical II would be
responsible for the surveillance of major communicable diseases, monitoring of the referral system, waste
management and medical purchase. The Additional Director, for HMIS and IEC would be responsible for
M&E, performance indicators and IEC activities. The five Additional Directors would be supported by a
complement of Joint, Deputy, Regional and Assistant Directors in the performance of their duties noted
above.
18.    A Strategic Planning Cell (SPC) would report to the Secretary, DOHFW  through the Special
Secretary (Project Director). The SPC would monitor the critical issues in the health sector in the state by
commissioning studies, workshops and seminars, and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities.
These issues would include monitoring the development of the private health sector; reviewing suitability of
present regulations regarding the quality of private care provision; analyzing the evolving epidemiological
profile in the states; evaluating the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions;



Annex 6
Page 5 of 20
reviewing medical manpower and reviewing the implementation of cost-recovery mechanisms and sectoral
resource allocation patterns.
19.    A District Steerini Committee in each district would be composed of the Sabhadhipati, Zilla Parishad
(Chairman); District Magistrate; Karmadhyakya, Jana Swastha Committee; Chief Medical Officer (CMO);
Executive Engineer; Superintendent of local hospital; and an NGO representative (Chart 7). The Committee
would meet monthly, and would review and monitor the progress of the project; coordinate activities between
different agencies involved in the project; and provide necessary administrative and technical guidance at the
district level. The CMO or the District Project Officer would be the head of District Proiect Implementation
Cell. This Cell would be responsible for implementing the project at the district level including: facilitating the
functioning of the referral system, maintenance of equipment, waste management, training of technical staff,
ensuring quality assurance, undertaking surveillance of major communicable diseases, and monitoring and
supervising other project activities. The District Project Officer would be supported by: a Deputy Project
Officer; an Assistant Project Officer for administration, procurement, surveillance, referral, waste
management; an Assistant Project Officer for training, records, miscellaneous activities and stores; a social
welfare officer; a mass media officer; an accounts officer; and an engineering cell.



96                                              Annex 6
Page 6 of 20
Chart 1: Functional Levels of Project Management
GOVERNING BOARDIBOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mtajor policy decisions
. Review progress
. Ensure coordination
. Resolve adnministrative bottlenecks
. Ensure fow of funds
. Approve annual budget
. Authorize major project revisions
. Formulate rules and regulations
. Mobtlize resourcest
_________ /tItMJ s LMlITE__A
I   GrERN  COKM!vlEE' 
STRATEGIC PLANNING CELL
Supervise project activities
. Evotve health sector strategy        Monitor project inplementation                             Headquaer Level
Coordinate health sector            Unde  pl    mctlhtes
planning                         IFactte project mfnagenent act . tes
. Conduct studies/research             _ _
. Adviselrecommend
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CELL
. Routine management
. Monitor progress
. Maintain flow of funds
Maintain project accounts
/   Provide technical guidance
/  Provide general administration
/   /   .  Prepare progress report
I
ENGINEERIG                            DISIRICT S El`   G  COMMIIr3
DMwfSIONS                                    
. Implementations of aU                Review uSkwiseaompooent progren
engineering-oriented     4        t C@-ordinate actvities between different agencis
I. Remive admimintmrtive probLems at Districts
projects at the dicttRoe  d ttprbeua D 
-Disrict Level
DISTRICT HEALTH COMMITTEE & PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION CELL
. Facilitate functioning of referral system
. Ensure maintenance of equipment
. Manage hospital waste
. Train technical staff
. Provide quality asnce
'Only for Punjab                          Undertake surveiUance of communicable diseases
'Only for Kaataka                         Monitor & supervise project actitides
30oly for West Bengal                     CoUect and redistribute of user charges



Chart 2 Karnataka Health System: Management Structure
Project Governing Board |
Steering Committee
Secretary[1
1roject Co-ordinator             k1rategic IaningCelliii ii
|       4                             [ ~~~~~~~~~~~Chief ArchitS
D Drector                                           
Director           Indian Systems           Director             Addl. Secretary           Drug Controller        Chier Engineer
Medical Education    | of Medicine           lHealth Services      ProJect Administrator
N   Addl. Director           Addl. Direcor                           Chief Archit(et 
AddD. Director           Karnataka Htalth          Karnataka }lealth
Communicable Disease            System (WB)              Systenm (lEtW)
Training an  Training and ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Spdt Egiee
_erera Ij'  '  |  '        |             '               | Bangalore
Jt. Director        | Jt. Drector              Jt. DINrector   | |ChlertAccounts  ||Admin. OMce|                  II
Govt. Med. Store       |     Hospftlas            Equipment                OMcer                                       Sud.Egne |
l   I                                                    |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dharwad
[   Dy. Director   |   i        | |   Dy. Director
| llospitals North] |-t          11 EqUiTent (DM
| Dy. Director   | ||| Dy. Director |
|Hospitals South                        Equipment (DHS)|
| Dy. Director   ||                      Dy. Director | 
Referalnnad                            Training and   I                                                                             >
|  Rtkrral  11          rt      ~~~~~Referral                                                                              Iso 
|   Dy. Dlrtstor   |2   |  [  ~~Dy. Diretcor   |                                                                         o 
l IMIS                                  Transport 



Chart 3 Karnataka Health System: District Level Organization
Secretary, lealth and
Family Weifare Services
Director Health Service
Additional Secretary
Project Administrator
District llealth Committee                Additional Director
Karnataka Health Systems (WB)
Dlistrict Surgeon                                                  District Health & FW. OMcer
- Maintenance of                                                   - Supervision of Taluka
Equipment                                                         Medical Omcers'
- Management of Waste                                                Activities
- Training of Technical                                            - Coordination of Primary
Staff                                                              Health Care Activities
-  Monitoring Referral                                            - Surveillance of
Systemn                                                           Communicable Diseases
-  Quality Assurance                                               -  Mfonitoring Referral
-  Surveillance of                                                    System
Communicable Diseases
Socal Worker       Mass Metia        Junior Engineer   FAst. controller
OMficer                             Finance & Accouns|
+   [+]  31  1 hncontroll I                                                                                  y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C)0



Chart 4 Punjab Ilealth Systems Corporation: Management Structure
Chairman
(ilealth Secretary)
and Board of
Directors
Managing                              Strategic Planning
Direct                                      Cell
Dieto                             Direto                         Direct                        Director                              reto                        Dir_cior
Admin. and                     Medical                     Medical Services               Engg. Services                     M&E and HMIS                         Fln.
Personnel '                Matnagement                                                                                                                      Mstnagement
(Non-M edlca l)
iJ1xaszr   -Jl. Dlr.              -Itbnsger                        Superintending Eog.                     Dy. Dir.                    -Dy. t1anager (Audil)
Peownd (dmdws)                  Referral/QA/lMedial Audit           Pernnnel                        _-Exc. Eng. (Pubikc lealth)          IEC (man media)                   _ Asa. MiAnager (Pre-udiO
-2 AMd. Magen                      Dy. Dr.                           LDy. Dlrecor                     L2 Subd. Eng. (Pubitc lealth)                                           12 Auditors
- 4 Aidastas                        ReferalQA/htedkai Audit                      Dr. Nur                                                Dy. Dir. hU E                       Asst. MIsnager (Pod -audil)
Dir. Par amedki   -Exec. Eng. (Eledrcall/Nectrontcn)   Pub. Health Performance               1 2 Auditors
-Dy.  anager                 _Jt. Director                                                            Hbd. Eng. (wiring)                Performace Indtntonl         _
Purchaae (nan-medlal          Natioal Program                 -   Ji. Director                         SWubd. Eng. (equipment)         NI&E                           Dy. Mtanager (AccountslRevenue)
equlptmi. datary.                                                 Talrag                                                                                                LAccountant
other oflce equlpmeut)     -Jt. Director                           [DYy. Dir. Doctor              -EXec. Eng. (CIU Worki)               -Research O017                     IAsldanI
I [.i_ncuuaat              Vt ute Mgini./Surveliance              Asit. Dtr. Nurarl               _2 Subd. Eog. (CIvU Workt)           StaiLdtklan
I     4                     rt.-  Dir. Wage Mpit                         paedkr                        4 Junior Eog. (Civil Works)
-Purdeha     Malta a                  Dir. Sur-vella a2 Accountants                                                                      Research Of/0
v1~a                                                                                                                                    Stalidictan
V:_                                                                                                                              9stitklan                                                           0   3l
LAsa. Dir. Pwchae
-AJt. Dir. Digributles



Chart 5 Punjab Health Systems Corporation: District Level
District Health        Deputy Medical
Committee                                             Commissioner
L    Assistant Medical
Commissioner 
o >
Medical Coordinator, Administration                               Health Coordinator, Training
(Adininistration/ProcuremenitSurveill3nce/                        (Training/Records/HMIS)
Waste ManagementfRererral
Social Worker           Mass Miedia Ofcer            Junior Engineer          Asst. Manager                 Superintendent Of
Finance & Accounts                 Office
(Salaries/Procurement
of medicines in
emergency/revenue
collected thru user
charges/bank
claims/petrol/TA/DA)                                     N
o 00



Chart 6 West Bengal: Management Structure
Governing Board
Principal Secretary
(Project Coordinator)
-_  _  _  _ _  _  _ _(  Special Secretary    _         _*
Special Offlcer (Med)                          |  (Psroject lDirector)                             Strategic Planning Cell
Special Offlcer (Non-hied)
Directorate of Health Services
Addl. Director                Addi. Director                  Addl. Director                     AddI. Director                   Addi. Director
Admin. & Finance              Engg.                           hlealth & Medical I                hlealth & Medical 11             ilMIS & IEC
(Non bledical)
- Civil Works                   - Personnel                        - Surveillance                   - Perrormaiice
- Recruitment                 - Architecture                  - Training                         - Rererral System                  Indicators
- Non Medkal                  - Equipment Mgmt.               -Miedical Audit/                   - Waste Mgmt.                    -Monitoring
Purchase                                                  Quality Assurance                 - 1ledical Purchase             - IEC Activities
- Vigilance
- Financial Audits
- Accounts
-7   ~ ~                       .             1                  1 1                                                      IE>
Jt. Director           Jt. Director/         Jl. Director/             Reg. Director           Reg. Director           Reg. Director
Accounts/Flnancial        Dep. Director         Dep. Director                Mtdkal                   Medical                Medical
Audit, Account          Equip. Mgmt.           CliiWorh                   N. Bengal               NBurdwan                Presidency
Architecture                            .IO0
DD/AD



Chart 7 West Bengal: District Level Organization
District Health Commte
District Project OMcer
Dy. Project OMficer
.~~~~~~~~~
Asst. Project Officer                                               Asst. Project OMcer,
(Administration)                                                    (Training)
- Administration                                                    - Training
- Procurement                                                       - Records
- Surveillance                                                      - Miscellaneous
- Referral                                                          - Stores
- Waste Management
I            ~~~I                              II 
Social Welfare     Mass Media         Accounts    Engg. Cell                                                                (I
Officer            Officer            Officer
o0



103                                     Annex 6
Page 13 of 20
KARNATAKA
PROJECT GOVERNING BOARD (PGB)
*  Additional Chief Secretary to the Government
*  Finance Commissioner
*  Development Commissioner
*  The Secretary to Government, Department of Planning
* The Secretary to Government, Department of Public Works (PWD)
*  The Secretary to Government, Department of Women's Welfare
*  The Secretary to Government, Department of Social Welfare
*  The Secretary to Government, Department of Health and Family Welfare
*      (Project Coordinator)
*  The Additional Secretary, Kamataka Health System Development Project
*      (Project Administrator)
*  The Director of Health and Family Welfare Services
- The Representative of the Government of India from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(MOHFW)
PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
-  The Secretary to Government, Department of Hcalth and Family Wclfare
(Chairrnan and Project Coordinator)
-  The Secretary 1I to Governmcnt, Finance
-  The Additional Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare
* The Secretary to Government Planning
  The Director, Department of Social Welfare
-  The Director, Department of Women's Welfare
-  The Director, Department of Medical Education
  The Director, Health and Family Welfare Services
*  The Joint Director, Hospitals
*  The Additional Director, Strategic Planning Cell, Department of Health
*  The Chief Engineer, Design and Engineering Wing, Department of Health and Farnily Welfare
*  The Chief Architect, Design and Engineering Wing, Department of Health and Family Welfare
*  The Chief Accounts Officer, Department of Health
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Technical Wing
*  Joint Director Hospitals
*  Deputy Director Hospitals North
*  Deputy Director Hospitals South
*  Deputy Director Training and Referral
*  Deputy Director HMIS
*  Joint Director Equipment
*  Deputy Director Equipment (DME)
*  Deputy Director Equipment (DHS)



104                                    Annex 6
Page 14 of 20
*  Deputy Director Training and Referral
*  Deputy Director Transport
*  Joint Director Medical Stores
*  Chief Accounts Officer
*  Administrative Officer
Design and Engineering Wing
*  The Chief Engineer
*  Superintendent Engineers
*  Executive Engineers
*  Assistant Executive Engineers
*  Assistant Engineers
*  Junior Engineers
*  Senior Architect
The organizational arrangements for the technical components of the project are described in the relevant
annexes.
DISTRICT HEALTH COMMITTEE
e Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Parishad
*  District Surgeon
*  District Health and Family Welfare Officer
*  Lay Secretary



105                                    Annex 6
Page 15 of 20
PUNJAB: PUNJAB HEALTH SYSTEMS CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
*  The Secretary to the Government, Department of Health and Farmily Welfare
(Chairman of the Board of Directors)
*  The Managing Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation
* The Secretary to the Government, Department of Finance
* The Secretary to the Government, Department of Rural Development and Panchayats
* The Secretary to the Government, Department of Local Government
*  A Representative of the Government of India from the Ministry of Health and Farnily Welfare
(MOHFW)
* The Director of Health Services, Department of Health
* A Representative of a Medical Institution of Excellence
* Two Distinguished Experts in Professions related to medicine and health
* An Experienced Professional in Systems Management
*  The Director of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research
* A Representative of a reputed Industrial House Manufacturing Pharmaceuticals
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
* Managing Director (1AS Office, Special Secretary), the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC)
* Director, Administration and Personnel, PHSC
*  Director, Monitoring and Evaluation and Health Management Information System, PHSC
* Director, Medical Services, PHSC
*  Director, Medical Management, PHSC
* Director, Engineering Services, PHSC
* Director, Financial Management, PHSC
* Other key staff of the rank of JointJDeputy/Assistant Directors, Research Officers, and Statisticians
who will assist the Managing Director and the six Directors of the PHSC in implementing the
project
DISTRICT LEVEL
* District Coordinator, Health Services
* Deputy District Coordinator
* Assistant District Coordinator, Administration (Adrninistration, Procurement, Surveillance, Waste
Management, Referral)
* Assistant District Coordinator (Training, Records, HMIS, Stores, Pharmacist)
* Social Worker
* Mass Media Officer
* Junior Engineer
* Assistant Controller, Finance and Accounts
* Superintendent of Office



106                                    Annex 6
Page 16 of 20
WEST BENGAL
PROJECT GOVERNING BOARD
*  The Chief Secretary to the Government (Chairman)
*  The Secretary to the Government, Department of Health and Family Welfare (Vice Chairman of
Governing Board and Project Coordinator)
*  The Secretary to the Government, Department of Finance
* The Secretary to the Govermment, Department of Public Works
*  The Secretary to the Government, Department of Pandrayat and Community Development
*  The Director of Health Services
* Special Secretary to Government, Department of Health and Family Welfare (Project Director)
PROJECT/MANAGEMENT CELL
* The Secretary to Government, Department of Health and Family Welfare
(Project Coordinator)
*  The Special Secretary to Government, Department of Health and Family Welfare
(Project Director)
*  Special Officer, Medical
*  Special Officer, Non-Medical
*  Head of the Strategic Planning Cell
-  Director of Health Services
-  Additional Director, Administration and Finance
-  Additional Director, Engineering and Civil Works
*  Additional Dircctor, Health and Medical I
*  Additional Director, Health and Medical ll
*  Joint Director, Accounts/Financial
  Joint/Deputy Director, Equipment Management
*  Joint/Deputy Director, Civil Works/Architecture
*  Regional Director (Medical), North Bengal
*  Regional Director (Medical), Burdwan
*  Regional Director (Medical), Presidency
*  Deputy/Assistant Director, North Bengal
*  Deputy/Assistant Director, Burdwan
*  Deputy Assistant Director, Presidency
DISTRICT STEERING COMMfITEE
*  Sabhadhipati, Zilla Parishad (Chairman)
*  District Magistrate
*  Karmadhyakya, Java Swastha Committee
*  Chief Medical Officer
*  Executive Engineer
*  Superintendent of Local Hospital
*  Representative of NGO



107                                      Annex 6
Page 17 of 20
DISTRICT HEALTH COMMI1=EE/PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CELL
* District Project Officer
* Deputy Project Officer
* Assistant Project Officer, Administration (Administration, Procurement, Surveillance, Referral, Waste
Management)
* Assistant Project Officer, Training (Training, Records, Miscellaneous Activities, Stores)
* Social Welfare Officer
* Mass Media Officer
* Accounts Officer
* Engineer Cell



108                                    Annex 6
Page 18 of 20
SCHEDULE OF APPOINTMENT OF KEY HEADQUARTERS STAFF AND OTHER
PERSONNEL
I. Karnataka
*  Additional Secretary
*  Additional Director (3), including one for KFW Project in Gulbarga District
*  Joint Director (3)
*  Chief Engineer
*  Deputy Chief Engineer
*  Executive Engineer (2)
*  Assistant Architect
*  Chief Accounts Officer
.  CAO
H. West Bengal
Currently Filled
*  Principal Secretary (Project Coordinator)
  Project Director
* Strategic Planning Cell
* Additional Director Engineering
Additional Director, HMIS and [EC
* Deputy Director Civil Works
* Deputy Director Equipment Management
* Deputy Director Accounts/Financial Audit
' Four Office Assistants
* Secretariat staff of Project Director and other officers
To be Filled (by July 31. 1996)
Headquarters
* Additional Director, Administration and Finance (Non-Medical)
* Additional Director, Health and Medical I
* Additional Director, Health and Medical 11
* One Regional Director, Medical
District
* District Project Officer
* Deputy District Project Officer



109                                Annex 6
Page 19 of 20
*  Assistant Project Administration Officer (District)
*  Social Welfare Officer
*  Mass Media Officer
*  Accounts Officer
*  One designated Engineer
To be Filled (by December 31. 1996)
Headquarters
* Special Officer/Assistant Director (Medical)
* Special Officer/Assistant Secretary (Non-Medical)
* Two Regional Directors
District
* Assistant Project Officer (Training)
* Additional officers in the Engineering Cell
III. Punjab
Currently Filled in the Punjab Health Systems Corporation
*  Chairman
*  Managing Director
*  Members of the Board of Directors (appointed/nominated)
*  Director of the Strategic Planning Cell
a  Health Economist
*  Systems Analyst
*  Additional Managing Director (Personnel)
*  Director Medical Management
*  Director Medical Services
a  Director Engineering Services
*  Manager, Finance/Accounts
*  Secretary, Board of Directors
*  Deputy Director, Medical Management
To be filled (by July 31. 1996)
Headquarters
& Director, M&E and HMIS
* Director, Financial Management



110                                  Annex 6
Page 20 of 20
Distri-t (17; one in each District)
*  Deputy Medical Commissioners
*  Assistant Medical Commissioners
*  Junior Engineers
*  Mass Media Officers
  Manager, Finance & Accounts
*  Superintendent of Office
To be Filled (bv December. 1 996)
Headquarters
*  Jt. Director Personnel
* Jt. Director Purchases
  Jt. Director Quality Audit
*  Jt. Director Waste Management
*  Executive Engineers for Construction/Maintenance
*  Manager (Audit)
District
3 Medical Superintendents (remaining 150 institutions)
3 Medical Specialists



111                                    Annex 7
Page 1 of 14
TRAINING
1.     The primary objective of the training component is to improve quality and strengthen the
services provided at first referral facilities. The strengthening of services at these hospitals is expected
to improve the referral system, provide better quality of services, and reduce the burden on tertiary
hospitals in the cities. Each state would implement a comprehensive training program for upgrading
skills at rural, sub-divisional and district hospitals.
2.     During project preparation, the DOHFW in each state set up a working group responsible for
matters related to training and skill development. The working groups are composed of experienced
clinicians from rural and teaching hospitals as well as nursing personnel, hospital superintendents and
administrators. These working groups conducted a rapid training needs assessment study, where
teams from the working groups visited a number of secondary hospitals and interacted with the medical
and paramedical staff of these hospitals. Each state then conducted a training workshop to discuss the
results of the rapid training needs assessment study and developed priority intervention strategies.
3.     The working groups' concluded that training programs are necessary for all categories of
hospital manpower, including doctors, specialists, nurses and technicians at all levels. It was decided
that the program should include training of clinical skills, hospital management, use and maintenance of
equipment, hospital record-keeping and reporting, and the functioning of referral system. In addition,
the teams identified other types of training where participants would include not only hospital staff, but
other state and district level officers. These participants would receive training on IEC, health
management information system (HMIS) and on surveillance of major communicable diseases.
Additional information on specific training programs are provided in the individual annexes.
4.     The working groups considered several factors while formulating a comprehensive training
program: (a) the target group to receive training; (b) the issues/subjects that need to be addressed;
(c) the number of staff in each category to be trained; (d) the training of traincrs; (e) the availability of
cxisting training materials versus the need to develop new curriculum and training modules; (f) the
number of trainees each year; and (g) the unit cost of training.
Clinical Training
5.     Concept. In order to improve the quality and effectiveness of clinical services in hospitals, the
states would establish periodic in-service clinical training for health professionals. The goal of clinical
training would be to upgrade skills of health professionals, in order to provide safe and high quality
services to clients. Norms for these services were defined for each type of hospital through workshops held
in each state.
6.     Clinical training deals primarily with obtaining the knowledge, attitudes and skills necessary to
carry out a specific procedure or activity. Although this training can be thought of as being effective if
it succeeds in conveying information or influencing attitudes, it will have failed if the participants are
unable to satisfactorily perform the activity assigned to them. Clinical training would therefore focus on
providing the essential facts and attitudes, as well as developing skills required for performing a specific
procedure or activity.
7.     The training provided would be competency-based training (CBT) or learning by doing. It is
based on a social learning theory which states that when conditions are ideal, a person learns most



112                                    Annex 7
Page 2 of 14
rapidly and effectively by watching someone (in this case the trainer) perform a skill. The participant
later performs the skill under the guidance and facilitation of the trainer. To successfully accomplish
CBT, the skill or activity to be taught must be broken down into essential steps. Each step is then
analyzed to determine the most efficient and safe way to both teach and learn it. This process is called
standardization. Once a procedure has been standardized, competency-based learning guides and
checklists could be developed to facilitate learning the necessary steps and provide more objective
evaluation of the participant's performance.
8.     Training Approach. This project would undertake the CBT approach to clinical training which
is based on demonstration, practice, feedback and assessment of the minimum level of competence in
performing a job. A combination of three modalities would be used for providing in-service training:
short courses, practical training and distance learning packages. In order to do so, responsible working
groups in each state would develop curricula suitable for each type of training. These working groups
would also design and conduct the training of trainers and develop necessary training modules.
9.     Who Will be Trained?  A preliminary analysis of the categories of staff and training needs
indicates that two distinct categories of training will be provided: (a) updating the knowledge and skills
within specialty areas for those who have already had post-graduate training; and (b) updating the
knowledge and skills for those who have not received post-graduate training in the identified areas
(MBBS, nurses, lab technicians, radiographer).
10.    Curriculum Development. Since clinical training will focus on hands-on practice to improve
skills in performing procedures, a specific curriculum needs to be developed accordingly. With the
assistance of a consultant on clinical training, each state is expected to establish several working groups
and conduct workshops to develop suitable curricula for different types of training categories
(physicians, specialists and nurses). The members of the working groups would consist of experienced
clinicians who are competent in their specialties, physicians who have experience working in rural
hospitals and some members from medical colleges. Curricula would be continued to be developed
during the early implementation phase of the project.
11.    TraininR Modules. The modules for clinical training would be very specific, including learning
objectives and methods, and check lists to evaluate skills. Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal will first
review existing training materials developed by APVVP in Andra Pradesh, USAID-JHPIEGO and
WHO, and adapt training materials accordingly. If necessary, the states will assign working groups to
develop the specific training modules.
12.    Training Site. To train physicians from the commnunity, rural, sub-district and sub-divisional
hospitals, the states would assign some district hospitals within the states as training centers. Some of
the advantages of such an arrangement would be: (a) conditions at district hospitals are more likely to
be similar than at teaching hospitals; (b) training rural hospital physicians at district hospitals is likely
to familiarize them with the functioning of the district hospital, thus facilitating the referral process.
Suitable district hospitals have been identified. The project will support construction of training
facilities at district hospitals, which consist of classrooms, libraries and training equipment.
13.    For training of specialists from district hospitals, the states have assigned several teaching and
tertiary hospitals as training centers. Further coordination With the staff of medical colleges will be
conducted during the first year of the project.



113                               Annex 7
Page 3 of 14
14.    Training of Trainers. Trainers who will provide clinical training in each state need to be kept
abreast of training technology and familiarized with the specific curriculum and training modules.
Training technology that they would have to acquire include: selection and use of appropriate teaching
methods for development of psychomotor skills (i.e. patient management procedures); small group teaching
methods; acquisition of desirable attitudes; and methods of assessment for evaluation of learning outcomes.
For this purpose, the state would organize appropriate short courses for staff of district hospitals and medical
colleges who will be serving as trainers in the training programs. Input for such training of trainers will be
obtained from institutions such as the National Teacher Training Centers for Medical Education and Research
(e.g. JIPMER in Pondicherry, PGIER in Chandigarh, etc.). Funds for such consultant support will be
available under the project.
15.    Distance Learning Packages (DLP). In addition to the regular training mentioned above, the
states would use DLP to improve clinical skills in various areas of specialties. DLPs are training
materials designed to be used by physicians and other health professionals to update their s"ills through
independent study. DLPs will help states to update physicians' skills on a regular basis, in a cost-
effective way. Since there is no experience in the use of DLPs, a pilot test will be conducted in a small
area. For development of the DLP, selected training institutions will be given contracts to develop or
adapt DLP appropriate to the training needs.
16.    Fellowships. The project will provide several fellowships for trainers to improve their teaching
skills, for managers and physicians to attend several short courses outside the country.
17.    Phasing of Training Program. The training program will be implemented in a phased manner
through the life of the project. The phasing is required both for the benefit of carefully planned training,
as well as for avoiding service distortion which could result from many doctors being away at training
at the same time. The total cost of the training program is therefore phased out over the five years of the
project (see Annex 21).
Clinical Training: Features Specific to Each State
16.    Karnataka. At government hospitals, the major cause of death of inpatients (compared to total
patients admitted) were as follow: perinatal complications (12.4 %/6), circulatory system disorders (9.1
%), ill-defined conditions (7.3 %), congenital anomalies (7.0%) and injury and poisoning (4.0%/6). The
working group has focused on improving the clinical skills of the hospital staff in these particular areas
while taking into consideration the results of the Workshop on Norms.
17.    A priority list of clinical skills for physicians and nurses of conmmunity hospitals, sub-district
hospitals and districts hospitals were identified and grouped by area of specialty. A plan outlining an
approach to updating these skills was completed in order to facilitate the preparation of training
manuals. The first priority is in the areas of obstetrics, neonatalogy, internal medicine, surgery and
anesthetics. Training for physicians of community hospital and sub-district (Taluka) hospitals will be
conducted at district hospitals. A teaching center, attached to each district hospital, will be constructed
and completed with teaching aids. Training of the specialists will be done at the teaching hospitals. The
clinical training for other areas of specialties will follow after the first priorities have been settled.
Table I describes the training programs for physicians and various specialties while Table 2 describes
those for nurses.
20.    Punjab. A transition in the burden of disease is currently underway in Punjab. Data from
several medical institutions (1993) showed that 76.5 % of out-patients and 85.7% of in-patients suffered



114                              Annex 7
Page 4 of 14
from non-communicable diseases. Acute respiratory infections were the next frequent reported cases,
when both out-patients and in-patients were taken into consideration. The Survey of Causes of Deaths
in rural areas (1991) showed that apart from "fever" (24 %) which reflects infected conditions, the
other leading cause of rural deaths were circulatory system disorders (17.2 %), degenerative conditions
(17%), trauma (11.3%) and respiratory disorders (11%). The working group focused on improving
clinical skills of the hospital staff in these particular areas while taking into consideration the result of
the Workshop on Norms.
21.    The Punjab Health Systems Corporation would give contracts to selected teaching institutions
within the state (medical colleges and nursing colleges) to assist the district hospitals in implementing
their training prograrn. Under this contract, the teaching institutions will assist the district hospitals in
conducting short on-site courses and practical clinical training. Fourteen teaching centers will be
constructed and they will be attached to fourteen district hospitals. These facilities will consist of
classrooms and library and teaching equipment. The total number of staff to be trained is about 10,000
including specialists, physicians, dentists, nurses and technicians.
22.    During the early stages of the project, short on-site courses and some practical clinical training
will be provided at the medical colleges or nursing colleges. The trainees wvill later be posted at the
district hospitals to obtain hands-on practical experience under close supervision of college professors.
After the project's initial two years, the on-site courses and practical clinical training will shift entirely
to the district hospitals. Throughout the training period selected staff from the teaching institutions will
be posted at district hospitals.
18.    West Benzal. The major cause of death at health institutions, as obtained from the Survey of
Causes of Death, 1987 (Model Registration Scheme), were complications of pregnancy and child birth
(22.7 %/6), infection and parasitic diseases (17.6%), ill-defined conditions (13.2 %), diseases of the
digestive system (10%) and injury and poisoning (8.7%). The working groups at the state level have
focused on improving the clinical skills of the hospital physicians, specialists and nurses in their
particular areas, in order to improve their clinical performance and quality of care.
24.    However, a survey on the causes of deaths carried out in the Howrah Municipal Corporation in
1993, a typical overcrowded industrial area with a sizable slum population, revealed that the major
causes of death were from chronic lung diseases, such as bronchitis, asthma and emphysema (10.5%),
cerebro-vascular diseases (8.5%), and pneumonia (7.3 %/6). The state will emphasize improving the
clinical skills in this area.
19.    DOHFW  would select several teaching institutions within the state to assist the district
hospitals in implementing their training program. During the early stages of the project, short on-site
courses and some of practical clinical training will be provided at the teaching institutions. The trainees
will later be posted at the district hospitals to obtain hands-on practical experience under close
supervision. After the initial two years of the project, the on-site courses and practical clinical training
will shift entirely to the district hospitals. Throughout the training period selected staff from the teaching
institutions will be posted at the district hospitals. The working group has prepared a plan outlining the
clinical training program. Table 9-3 describes the training program for various specialties.



1 15                            Annex 7
Page 5 of 14
Management Training
26.    The three states would provide management training for hospital administrators at the
secondary level and for state level officers involved with project management. For state level officers,
management training will be provided through scholarship programs within India or internationally.
20.    Hospital Management.  The main objective of this training is to strengthen management
knowledge and hospital administrators' skills. The important management issues that will be covered in
the training program are: personnel, finance, facility management, equipment management, consumable
supplies, information systems and general management. The intention of management training will be
to provide practical training to enhance the ability of administrative staff to face day-to-day problems.
Details of the program are shown in Table 4.
21.    Training Institution. Management training would be contracted to outside institutions. A
specific working group responsible for management training was established in each state during project
preparation. This group will continue to collaborate with designated institutions to work on the curricula
and training modules.
22.   Training Approach. Hospital management training will emphasize analysis of the existing
situation. The analytic steps of the process are: problem identification, objective setting, options-
appraisal and decision-making. The approach will be a continuing element in future management
activities. Case studies based on local situations will be developed for training purposes.
Management Training: Features Specific to Each State
30.    Karnataka. In order to improve the administrative capability of hospital managers, the state
will organize regular training course for Civil Surgeons, Assistant Surgeons and Nursing Supervisors.
The course curriculum and content will be developed in collaboration with management institutions
specializing in hospital administration.
31.    Puniab. Considering the need for close interaction between primary care providers and other
district health officers, Punjab will conduct joint training of hospital managers and primary care
providers in addition to the regular management training to be provided under the pcoject.
32.    West Bengal. Management training would be provided by one of several training institutions:
ATI of Salt Lake, ASCI of Hyderabad, and IIHMR of Jaipur. Up to 10 scholarships have been
proposed for state level officials to strengthen management capacity.
Implementation of Training Programs
33.    Arrangements for implementation and management of training programs in each state will
follow the overall arrangements for project management, as laid out in Annex 8.
34.    Kamataka. At the state level, training programs will be implemented and managed by a Deputy
Director for Training and Referral. This Deputy Director will be supporting the Joint Director for
Hospitals, who in tum will be supporting the Additional Director of Health Systems with the carrying
out of project implementation. At the district level, a District Health Committee/Project Implementation
Cell would be in charge of supervising the functioning of the health system. A District Surgeon, who



116                                   Annex 7
Page 6 of 14
will report directly to the District Health Committee, will plan and implement the training programs for
technical staff.
35.    Punjab. At the state level, the implementation and management of training programs will be the
responsibility of the Joint Director for Training, who will be supporting the Director of Medical
Services.   At the district level, the nodal implementing agency will be the District Health
Committee/Project Implementation Cell. Within this Committee, the Assistant District Coordinator for
Training will be responsible for coordinating and implementing training programs.
36.    West Bengal. At the state level, there will be an Additional Director for Health and Medical I
who will be responsible for the implementation and management of training programs. The Additional
Director would be directly under the Special Secretary/Project Director. At the district level, the nodal
implementing agency will be the District Health Committee. This Committee will include an Assistant
Project Officer for Training, who would be responsible for supervising and implementing training
programs.



117                                          Annex 7
Page 7 of 14
Table 1 Clinical Training Program for Physicians and Specialists: Karnataka
personxiel:                                            of training   cases for hands
on practice
Obstetric:
Physicians from         *  Normal obstetrical          one month   10                    District Hospitals
Community Hospital      *  procedures
and Sub-district            Obstetric emergency
(Taluka) hospitals.     *  procedures (section
cesarean)
MTP procedures _                     _
Obstetric and           *  Management of obstetric    15 days                        *  A.l.l. M.S, Delhi
Gynecology specialist       critically ill patients                                   *  Jaslok Hospital, Bombay
from District hospitals                                                              *  JIPMER, Pondichery.
*  Care of new born           15 days      5                 *  Vani Vilas Hospital,
Use of incubator                                             Bangalore
Neonatology                                              *  St. Johns, Bangalore,
.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* St. Martha, Bangalore
Laparoscopy sterilization    one month   20              *  Referral Hospital, Bangalore
City Corporation      -
Ultrasound Sonography      15 days     20                *  Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
*  Jubilee Nursing Home,
Bangalore
St. Johns, Bangalore,
=__________________   =_________________________  *_________  _____________ _   S t.   M a rthas,  Bangalore
Neonatal:
Physicians from         *  Resuscitation procedure     2 weeks      10                   District Hospitals
Community Hospital      *  Management of birth
and Sub-district            asphyxia
[Talukal hospitals.
*  Management of premature   2 weeks        10                   District Hospitals
and Low Birth Weight
babies [over 2 kg].
*  Use of warmers
Pediatricians (children   *  Management of birth       2 weeks      15               *  Vani Vilas Hospital,
specialists) from           asphyxia                                                     Bangalore
District hospitals      *  Birth injuries                                            *  St. Marthas, Bangalore
Jaundice
Convulsion
*  Neonatal intensive care
*  Management of premature  2 weeks         10               *  Vani Vilas Hospital,
and Low Birth Weight                                         Bangalore
babies (less than 2 kg).                                 *  St. Marthas, Bangalore
*  Use of incubators, radiant,
phototherapy unit.



118                                        Annex 7
Page 8 of 14
Table 1 (continued)
Category of               Clinical skill practice   Duration    Minimum              Training Center
personnel:                                          of training   cases for hands
on practice
Internal Medicine
Physicians from        *  Management of                                              District Hospitals
Community Hospital        hypertension
and Sub-district       '  Management of burns
(Taluka) hospitals     '  Cardio-pulnonary
resuscitation
*  Training on the use of
ECG
Internal Medicine         Management of ICU         15          10               *  Sri Jayadeva Institute of
specialists or            [Intensive Care Unit] and                              *  Cardiology, Bangalore
cardiologist from         ICCU [Intensive Coronary                               *  Wokhardt's Heart Hospital,
District hospitals        Care Unit]                                                 Bangalore
*  Manipal Hospital, Manipal
*  St Johns, Bangalore
*  Mallya Hospital, Bangalore.
Management of critically   15        5                *  A.I.I.M.S, Delhi
ill patients                                          '  Jaslok Hospital, Bombay
*  Grant Medical Hospital,
Bombay
*  JIPMER, Pondichery.
Training on the use of   10 days     5                *  Bowring & Lady Curzon
Endoscopy                                                 Hospital, Bangalore
'  St. Johns, Bangalore
Surgery:
Physicians from           Management of injury                                      District Hospitals
Community Hospital        patients: resuscitation and
and Sub-district          patient stabilization
(Taluka) hospitals        before referring to other
hospital                                              _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _
General Surgeons from     Management of head       two weeks   10                *  NIMHANS, Bangalore
Sub-district hospitals    injuries                                               *  Manipal Hospital, Manipal
and District hospitals                                                           *  CMC Hospital, Vellore
Management of thoracic   two weeks   5                *  SDS Sanitariurn, Bangalore
injuries                                              *  MS Ramiah Medical College
Hospital, Bangalore.
Management of            two weeks   10               *  Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
orthopaedics emergencies                              *  SL Johns, Bangalore
JJM Hospital, Davanagere
*KMC Hospital, Manipal
Management of critically   15 days                        A.l.l.M.S, Delhi
ill patients                                              Jaslok Hospital, Bombay
*JIPMER, Pondichery
Training on the use of  two weeks   20                *  Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
Utrasound Sonography                                  *  Srinivasa Scremiig Center,
alBangalore
*St. Johns, Bangalore
,   .                                                       *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~St. Marthas, Bangalore



119                                      Annex 7
Page 9 of 14
Table 1 (continued)
Category of              Clinical skill practice  Duration    Minimum            Training Center
personnel:                                        of training  cases for hands
on pnctice   _
Anesthesia
Physicians from          Administration of general  six months  10           *  All teaching hospitals in
Community Hospital       anesthesia and regional                                 Karnataka State including
and Sub-district         anesthesia for normal or                                private Medical College
(Taluka) hospitals       non complicated cases           __               _      Hospitals.
Anesthetists specialists  Advance techniques and    one w.ek    6                All teaching hospitals in
from Sub-district        the used of latest drugs                                Karnataka State including
(Taluka) hospitals and                                                           private Medical College
District hospitals                                                        H_ ospitals.
Radiology             _                           _           _    _    _
Radiologist specialists   *  Ultrasound Sonogaphy  one month  50                 Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
from District hospitals   *  Special Radiological           J                    Jubilee Nursing Home,
investigation                                          Bangaore
_  *  Speta-prhotometry 
Dental Service._
Assistant Dental      *  Management of maxila-    one month  10              *  Govenmnent Dental CoUege,
Surgeon (BDS &           facial injuries and                                     Bangalore
MDS)                     fractures                                            *  SDM Dental College,
___ __ __ __ __ ___ _  _ _B_ Bangalore
*  Oral Cancer Detection   one month   10              *  Kidwai Memorial Institute of
Biopsy & Excision of                                   Oncology
small lesions & follow up. I
Orthopedics
Orthopedic surgeon    *  Management of            two weeks   10              *  Sanjay Gandhi Mcmorial
(MS or D.Ortho)          Polytrauma cases                                        Accident Complex &
from District hospitals                                                          Rehabilitation Centcr,
Bangalore
*  Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
*  Manipal Hospital, Bangalore
*  Practice in Implant     four weeks  20                  Sanjay Gandhi Memorial
surgeries                                              Accident Complex &
Rehabilitation Center,
Bangalore
* Victoria Hospital, Bangalore
*  Manipal Hospital, Banplore
Tuberculosis
TB Specialist         *  Pulmonary test           one month   10              *  PKTB Hospital, Mysore
*  SDS TB Hospitd, Bangaore



120                                       Annex 7
Page 10 of 14
Table 1 (continued)
Category of               Clinical skill practice  Duration    Minimum              Training Center
personnel:                                         of training  cases for hands
on practice
Opthamology
Ophthalmologist (MS       Cataract surgery with IOL   one month   10             *  Minto opthalmic Hospital,
or DOMS) from             implementation                                            Bangalore
District hospitals        Keratoplasty                                           '  Lion's Eye Hospital,
Bangalore
*  Narayana Netralaya,
Bangalore
Micro surgery            one month   10               *  Minto opthaumic Hospital,
Use of operating                                         Bangalore
microscope                                            *  Lion's Eye Hospital,
Bangalore
'  Narayana Netralaya,
I    Bangalore
Ear-Nose-Throat
ENT surgeons (MS or   '  Bronchoscopy and remove  three         5                *  SDS Sanatorium, Bangalore
DLO) from District        of foreign bodies.        weeks                        *  St. Johns, Bangalore
hospitals
Micro surgery              six weeks    10              *  Basavangudi ENT Center
*  Chinnammal Memorial Trust
Hospital, Madras
*  KEM Hospital, Bombay.
Sk-in and Venereal Diseases
Dennatologist, Skin       Recent advances           15          5                   All teaching hospitals
specialist from District
hospitals



121                                    Annex 7
Page 11 of 14
Table 2 Clinical Training Program for Nurses and Lab Technicians: Karnataka
Category of             Clinical skill practice   Duration   Minimum        Training Center
personnel:                                    of         cases for
training    hands on
practice
NURSES
Staff Nurses of     *  ICCU Nursing Care      15 Days    10                 Sri Jayadeva Institute of
CHCs/ Taluk/                                                                Cardiology Bangalore
District Hospitals
Staff Nurses of     *  Pediatric Nursing      15 Days    10             *  Vani Vilas Hospital,
CHCs/Taluk/District                                                         Bangalore
Hospitals                                                                *  Cheluvamba Hospital,
Mysore
Staff Nurses of     *  O.T Training           One        30             *  Bowring & Lady Curzon
CHCs/Taluk/District                           Month                         Hospital Bangalore
Hospitals                                                                *  K.C.G. Hospital,
Bangalore
*  General Hospital,
Jayanagar, Bangalore
Staff Nurses of        Psychiatric Nursing    15 Days    10             *  NIMHANS, Bangalore
CHCs/TalukWDistrict
Hospitals
Staff Nurses of        Anesthesia             One        5              *  All Teaching Hospitals in
CHCs/TaluktDistrict                           Month                         both Govt. and Private
Hospitals                                                                   Sectors
Staff Nurses of     *  Labour Ward Training   One        10             *  All Teaching & Hospitals
CHCs/                   (in use of Foetal and  Month                        Private Hitech Hospitals
Taluk/District          Maternal Monitors)
Hospitals
Staff Nurses of     *  Laparoscopy            15 Days    10             *  All Teaching Hospitals in
CHCs/                                                                       both Govt. and Private
Taluk/District                                                              Sectors
Hospitals
Staff Nurses of        Nursing Training in    One         10            *  Sanjay Gandhi Memorial
CHCs/                   Management of Poly    Month                         Accident Complex &
Taluk/District          Trauma cases and                                    Rehabilitation Centre,
Hospitals              usage of Orthopedic                                  Bangalore
Appliances including                            *  KMC Hospital, Manipal
Splints                                         *  St.Johns Hospital,
*  Bangalore
KLE Society Hospital,
*  Belgaum
J.J.M. Medical College
Hospital, Davanagere



122                                   Annex 7
Page 12 of 14
Table 2 (continued)
Category of        [   Clinical skill practice   Duration   Minimum        Training Center
personnel:                                    of         cases for
I         training    hands on
practice
Laboratory Technicians
Procedures of Histo-    15 Days    30           *  All Hospitals attached to
Pathology                                          Teaching Colleges
Including Private Medical
College Hospitals
Lab.Technicians        Procedures of Micto-    15 Days    30            *  All Hospitals attached to
Biology                                            Teaching Colleges
Including Private Medical
College Hospitals
Lab.Technicians        Procedures of Bio-     15 Days    30             *  All Hospitals attached to
Chemistry                                          Teaching Colleges
Including Private Medical
Collegc Hospitals
Lab.Technicians        Procedures of Blood    15 Days    30             *  All Hospitals attached to
Bank                                               Teaching Colleges
Including Private Medical
Collegc Hospitals



123                                      Annex 7
Page 13 of 14
Table 3 Clinical Training Program for Physicians and Specialists: West Bengal
No. of
Specialty         No. of          Phases             Candidates in     Venue
Candidates                        each phase
NRS-10
Medicine           150            5                  30                cMc-10
IPGMER- 10
NRS-10
Surgery            150            5                  30                CMC-10
_IPGMER-10
NRS- I1
G&O                165            5                  33                CMC- Il
IPGMER- 1I
NRS-5
Orthopaedics      75              5                  15                B.C. Roy Chil-5
B.C. RoyPolio-5
NRS-3
E.N.T.            75              5                  15                CMC-3
RGK-3
CNMCH-3
._________ _                             NPGMER-3
NRS-5
Ophthalomology    90              5                  18                RIO-5
RGK-5
CNMCH-5
IPGMER-3
NRS-6
Radiology          155            5                  31                CMC-6
RGK-6
CNMCH-6
IPGMER-7
NRS-3
Paediatrics       75              5                  15                CMC-3
RGK-3
CNMCH-3
IPGMER-3
NRS-9
Anesthesiology    284             9                  32                CMC-9
RGK-7
CNMCI--7
IPGMER-4
______ _____ __  __ _____ ___  _ _____ _____ _  ___ _____ _____ days    by     rotation
Dental Surgeon     184            5                  33                R. Ahmed-12-8 days
NRS-10-3 days
CNMCH-1 1-3 days
NRS=3
Endoscopy         30              5                  6                 IPGMAER=3



124                                    Annex 7
Page 14 of 14
Table 4 Management Training Program: Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Management Aspects:           Focus of training:
Facility management:          facilities planning, assist registration, planned preventive
maintenance.
Personnel management:         recruitment procedures, rules and regulation, supervisory techniques,
disciplinary procedures, motivation, team building, group dynamics,
training and development.
Maintenance:                  planning for preventive maintenance, maintenance of the building,
house keeping, monitoring of use and abuse, hospital/medical waste
-management.
Finance:                      government financial procedures, budget planning, accounting system
(procedures and practices), budget monitoring and control, internal
audit, management of user charges.
Procurement matters:          procurement procedures, and rules and regulations.
Consumable supplies (including   planning for the supplies, procurement, inventory management,
drugs) management:            usages monitoring, storage.
Information system:           the use of information to improve hospital management, the
importance of patients registration, medical records and medical
reporting.
General issues:              the role of secondary level hospitals in supporting primary level
facilities and referral system, the role of hospital advisory committee,
the relationship of hospital with the community, etc.



125                                   Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
REFERRAL SYSTEM
Objectives of a Referral System
1.     A well-functioning referral system is an institutional mechanism through which patients
with complex health problems are identified in a timely and systematic manner and examined,
investigated and/or treated promptly at an appropriate health care facility.  A multi-tier health
delivery system which combines preventive, curative and specialized care works efficiently when
the various tiers of the system are linked together through a referral mechanism. It works best
when the lowest tier (the primary care level) is easily accessible to the community and provides the
bulk of preventive care services as well as the first contact for treating commnon illnesses. Each
successive level provides services that are technically more complex, the higher tier providing
technical leadership and support for the lower tiers. Under such a system, the community has
confidence in the quality of care provided and patients understand that they will be referred in
accordance with their medical needs.
The Current Referral System in the Three States
2.     The referral system in Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal, as in the rest of India, does
not function well. The lower tiers are underutilized since patients proceed directly to higher level
hospitals for minor illness, thereby overloading the hospitals. Patients perceive the lower level
facilities as providing lower quality of services. The Beneficiary Assessment study in West Bengal
found that about 2% of the patients at first referral facilities were referred from PHCs.
3.     An effective referral system which minimizcs by-passing of lower levels of health facilities
is desirable. It is estimated that a third of all cascs which are currcntly treated at tertiary facilities
could be treated at lower cost at first referral facilities, if thosc facilities received adequate inputs.
Such a system would require:
*  services at each level -- primary, secondary and tertiary -- to be clearly defined;
*  service at each level to be of a quality promoting confidence among patients;
*  patients and the community to have the confidence that patients will be properly
referred and promptly transferred to higher levels of health care as needed;
*  the public to be made aware of the types of services available at each level of care; and
*  procedures to be implemented ensuring that patients do not by-pass lower level
facilities.
The New Referral System
4.     Under the project, the referral system  would be improved through strengthening the
following activities: (i) renovating and upgrading hospital buildings to provide appropriate space
for services; (ii) upgrading and updating clinical skills of physicians and nurses through an
effective training program; (iii) providing ambulances for transporting critical patients; and (iv)
installing phone, fax, and/or radio communications. It is expected that these hospitals will become
the referral point for the primary health care level.



126                                   Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
5.     The project would seek to ensure that a much higher proportion of patients comning to first
referral hospitals had been seen at PHCs and referred upwards. The project would implement
several measures to strengthen the referral system. These include: (a) introducing the use of
Referral and Feed Back Cards; (b) implementing the referral guidelines that specify the "what",
"when" and "how" of referrals; (c) establishing an incentive system for patients who follow referral
procedures; (d) establishing linkages and communications between the first referral hospitals and
primary care facilities through regular training and out-reach visits; (e) conducting intensive
information, education and communication (IEC) targeted at providers and the community; (f)
forming District Health Committees that will monitor the implementation of the referral system.
6.     Referral and Feedback Cards.  A new system of Referral and Feedback Cards will be
introduced. Once a decision is made to refer a patient to a higher level facility, the patient will
receive a Referral Card. The Referral Card will provide the patient direct access to the referred
hospital. The Referral Card will contain general information about the patient (such as: name, age,
address, and gender), clinical diagnosis, purpose of referral, and medical infornation (such as:
examinations conducted, investigations carried out, treatment received and the condition of the
patient). At the referred hospital, the patient could report directly to the unit or department to
which he or she has been referred, instead of going through the regular Out-Patient Department
(OPD). This card will be made available not only at the first referral hospitals but also at primary
health care facilities. Alternatively, a special counter for receiving referral patients may be a
preferred mechanism.
7.     After completion of investigation, treatment or consultancy at the referred hospital, the
patient will be reported back to the first facility. The referred hospital will provide the patient with
a Feedback Card. This card will include: general information about the patient, final diagnosis,
procedures and treatment given, type of investigation conducted, and follow-up advice. No new
ticket will be required for patients returning from the referred hospitals.
Referral Guidelines
8.     A  manual of referral guidelines will be issued to all institutions that wvill specify
procedures to make the system effective and acceptable to the community. It will consist of two
parts, administrative guidelines and the referral protocols.
9.     Administrative Guidelines. The administrative guidelines are expected to be completed in
the first year of project implementation and will provide the following information:
*  location of hospitals within the state district in order to ensure that referral of patients
are made to the nearest hospital;
*  transportation facilities that could be used for referral, in particular, the kind of
transport arrangements that could be required for critical patients;
*  operational hours of the referral hospitals, particularly, the opening hours of specialist
clinics, radiology department, laboratory hours, etc.;
*  examples of Referral and Feed Back Cards;
*  incentives to the patients for following the referral procedures.
10.    Referral Protocols. The referral protocols will be developed in a participatory manner by
a technical group consisting of senior clinical specialists. It will provide information on:



127                                    Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
*  service norms that elaborate the type of services provided at each level of care. During
project preparation, each state has streamlined its service norms and rationalized the
provision of services at different level of care.
*  patient conditions are needed to refer patients either for investigation or treatment at
higher level facilities for each area of specialization;
*  procedures to be followed before referring the patients; for example, for critical
patients, procedures that would stabilize the patient;
*  counseling for patients and the family prior to referral (such as: purpose of the
referral, benefits from referring the patient to another hospital, location of the referral
hospital and timing of admittance, likely events at the referred hospital, cost of medical
care, and precautions and preparation to be undertaken by the patient prior to hospital
admittance).
11.    Incentives to Patients. Efforts will be made to provide incentives to patients in order to
encourage proper referral procedures. Referred patients will not need to pay an out-patient fee at
the referred hospital. They will be able to report directly to the unit or departrnent to which they
have been referred without going through the OPD registration window. The referring hospital will
provide transporting at a suitable fee. The Referral and Feedback Cards will serve as tickets at the
hospitals.
12.    Technical SupDort to Primarv Level. The first referral hospitals will have closer linkages
with the primary level health facilities. Certain primary level facilities and community hospitals
will be grouped into one zone based on geographic location. An identified district or sub-divisional
hospital will be assigned responsibility for providing technical support to that particular zone.
Technical support will be carried out through:
*   dissemination of referral guidelines to primary level facilities;
*  training of staff from primary level facilities and community hospitals at the district
hospital or sub-divisional hospital;
*   regular meetings to discuss problems in clinical management at the primary level;
*  out-reach visits to provide on-the-spot consultation.
13.    Strengthening Referral Management. District Health Conmmittees, to be established under
the project, will make the referral system operational. The members of these committees will
include: a District Surgeon, a District Health and Family Welfare Officer, medical officers from
the taluka/subdivisional hospitals level, and superintendents of teaching hospitals, if available.
These committees will have the following responsibilities:
* identifying zones for referral, which link identified PHCs, CHCs and rural/community
hospitals to a particular district hospital, for the purpose of serving as a preferred
referral site and providing technical back-up for lower level facilities;
*  monitoring the implementation of the referral system which will be done by assessing
data from referral registers. In addition, the District Health Committees will review
feedback from primary care facilities;
* mobilizing transport for referral needs through collaboration between the Committee
and NGOs or other agencies; and
*  coordinating technical support for lower level of care, as required.



128                                   AnnexS 8
Page 4 of 5
14.    IEC support. An extensive IEC program has been proposed to support the development of
an effective referral system. There will be two target groups. The first target will be the providers
at the primary level and the first referral facilities. This group would mainly be provided
information about the guidelines and functioning of the referral system. The second group would be
the community which would be provided with information focusing on the benefits of using the
referral system. Additional information about IEC support is described in annex 15.
15.    Training. After the guidelines have been finalized, the staff of primary level and first
referral facilities will be familiarized with these documents through training. For staff at first
referral facilities, referral training will be integrated with clinical training or management training.
Features Specific to Each State
16.    Karnataka. The state has selected the districts of Chitradurga and Hassan as pilot areas
for implementing the referral system and for introducing the quality assurance program. By the end
of the third year, when the upgrading of the physical structure at the first referral hospitals are
complete and the clinical and management training program are in place, the referral system will be
implemented throughout the state.
17.    The state has also developed a plan to improve the linkages between primary and first
referral levels. As mentioned earlier, primary care facilities and communuity hospitals will be
included in one zone, and an identified sub-district or district will be assigned to provide technical
support for each zone. In Kamataka, technical support will be provided through:
*  dissemination of referral administrative guidelines and referral protocols to the
facilities;
*  regular meetings and briefings with physicians of primary level facilities to discuss
problems of clinical management;
*  out-reach visits to PHCs and CHCs by consultants from the district hospitals for
providing on-the spot consultation for selected cases and practical demonstration of
selected management techniques.
18.    For tribal communities, the state has proposed annual health check-ups to identify health
problems. Those who require treatment or further investigation will get a Referral Card to go to the
appropriate health facilities.
19.    Puniab. The state has proposed a color coded Referral Card. Blue Referral Cards will be
used by community and area hospitals, green cards by sub-divisional hospitals and white cards by
district hospitals. At the hospitals, there will be a separate counter or window for accepting
referred patients to avoid long waiting time. After registration, referred patients will be guided
directly to the concerned specialist for consultation, examination, investigation or further treatment.
Referred patients will be given preference over other patients and will be examined by the most
senior specialists available.
20.    West Bengal. Special attention will be given to establish a referral mechanism for the
Sunderbans area, where 8 Block PHCs and 28 PHCs are included in the project. The Government
will approach the Zilla Parishads to construct rest housesgfor the patients and their families. These
are not accounted for under the project.



129                                 Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
21.    Regarding training for the referral system, the state's working group has developed a
training agenda. It decided that the persons to receive training will be medical officers, specialists,
superintendents, administrators, block medical officers of health (BMOH), nursing staff, ward
masters and SWOs. Training for the medical officers, specialists, superintendents and BMOH will
be for 3 days, conducted at district hospitals and cover the following materials: service norms at
various levels of care; flow of referral mechanism; use of communication; referral guidelines; use
of Referral and Feedback Cards; and IEC and HMIS orientation. Training for nursing staff, ward
masters and SWOs will be for a day at sub-divisional hospitals and will cover the following
materials: arrangement of vehicles for referring patients; filling up Referral and Feedback Cards
and explaining to patients the importance of the referral; providing counseling and guidance; and
other relevant topics.






130                                   Annex 9
Page 1 of3
QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM IN HOSPITALS
1.    Quality Assurance (QA) is an approach to building institutional capacity and organizational
culture that focuses on continuous improvements in service delivery and on consumer satisfaction. It is
an on-going process that monitors the shortfalls in quality and implements remedial measures to address
these shortfalls. A well planned QA program would empower rr-nagers, clinicians and technicians to
monitor the quality of care provided by their own hospitals aor assist in instituting rapid remedial
measures wherever shortfalls in quality are noticed. The program will cover as many clinical activities
as possible, but will focus on a few selected aspects at the beginning of the project.
2.     Quality of care has many aspects, such as care, courtesy and comfort; technical aspects such as
safety of care; and managerial aspects such as availability of resources and cleanliness of the facility.
To implement a QA program, it is necessary to clearly define indicators for each aspect of quality in
order to monitor the improvement over time.
Objectives and Scope of the Quality Assurance Program
3.     The states propose to implement a systematic program of quality assurance that covers several
aspects of clinical quality, user satisfaction and management of resources. This program will help to
ensure that other project interventions, such as improvement of physical buildings, provision of new
medical equipment, streamlining of service delivery norms, strengthening of clinical and management
capacity and improvement of the hospital information system, will actually translate into better quality
of care.
4.     Since QA is a new program, each state will identify two districts to be the initial project sites
during the first year of project implementation. All hospitals in these two districts will implement the
QA program.
5.     The QA program would consist of the following components: First, a QA committee would be
established at the state level. This committee would develop an overall policy framework for quality
improvement throughout the state. Second, several QA working groups would be assigned. These
working groups would develop guidelines and necessary tools for implementing QA program in priority
areas. These guidelines would be tested in hospitals in two selected districts chosen as pilot sites. After
a year, a comprehensive evaluation of the pilot sites would be conducted and necessary adjustments of
the guidelines would be made. A state wide implementation would start the second year of the project.
Responsible QA officials will work closely with teams responsible for clinical training, management
training and equipment provision.
6.     Ouality Assurance Committee. Each state would set up a State Quality of Care comrnittee.
The main task of this committee would be to develop a policy framework for the QA program for the
whole state. This conmnittee will undertake the following steps:
* identify influential opinion leaders from among several groups involved in health care delivery at
hospitals. This would include professional groups such as: specialists, doctors and nurses; hospital
managers, such as hospital directors or superintendents; union leaders; other managerial groups,
such as district coordinators; and representatives of the conmnunity.
*  plan a systematic program of consensus-building among-these opinion leaders. This would include
holding seminars to give information on the benefits and limitations of QA and workshops to
involve opinion leaders in consultative decision making regarding the development of the program.



131                                    Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Seminar and workshop activities would include developing or reviewing indicators, setting
standards for quality, and suggesting aspects of quality that should be monitored.
* identify priority areas. The suggested priority areas are obstetrics, pediatrics, medicine, surgery,
orthopedics, anesthesia and nursing.
* identify working groups that will work on details of the selected areas of specialty.
7.     Quality Assurance Working Groups. Several working groups will be established to work on the
details of each area of specialty that has been selected as priority. The members of each working group
will consist of specialists in that particular area, hospital administrators and physicians who have
worked in lower level hospitals (first referral hospital). These groups will design the quality assessment
tools, conduct evaluations of the current quality of services in selected hospitals, develop guidelines for
the implementation of QA programs, and monitor the implementation of QA at the pilot sites.
Consultants will be appointed to assist the working groups.
Activities to be Undertaken by the QA Working Groups
8.     Qualitv Assessment. The first stage of program development is to establish procedures for quality
assessment. This involves the development of acceptable standards, key indicators and methods for regular
periodic assessment of the quality of selected aspects of care provided in hospitals. The QA working group
at the state level will define the priority cases in the areas of medicine, pediatrics, surgery, obstetrics,
orthopedics, anesthesia and nursing in which the quality of care will be improved during the life of the project.
The criteria for priority selection are the most frequent cases admitted to the hospital or those that constitute a
significant burden of disease. Examples include: pediatric cases, acute respiratory tract infections and
diarrheal diseases. The group will assign sub groups to work on standards of procedures and identification of
suitable indicators for monitoring the quality of service.
9.     The steps in setting up quality assessment for the selected areas of focus are: (a) identify
suitable indicators for monitoring quality; (b) set acceptable standards; (c) pilot test methods of data
collection e.g. routine records, interviews with patients, set-up complaints mechanism, focus group
discussions with selected "clients" (women users, community leaders, tribal groups etc.); (d) review data
that has been collected and review indicators and proposed standards; (e) establish regular on-going
methods of data generation; and (f) establish procedures for reviewing the data and identifying hospitals
which have shortfalls in quality.
10.    Evaluation of the Current Quality. A detailed analysis will be conducted in selected hospitals,
to assess the discrepancies between the standards and the actual practices. Observation guides based on
accepted treatment norms would be used to document where patient care fell short of the standard.
Based on the results of this analysis, each hospital would develop its own plan of action to correct
lapses in technical quality and implement the correction action through direct supervision and on-the-job
training. In applying the concept it is important to note that the evaluation process is not concerned
with results that are theoretically achievable if there were unlimited manpower, skills, money or
equipment, but rather with optimum results that can be achieved in a particular hospital given the
available resources. QA is concemed with determining the difference between an optimum achievable
result, given the available resources, and the result that is actually being achieved.
11.    Ouality Improvement at Pilot Sites. A Quality Improvement (QI) group will be set up in each
of the hospitals. QI groups will be formed from among the staff who are responsible for the provision
of care in the area which has a shortfall in quality. The Ql groups would identify some performance
indicators that are easy to access, such as hospital acquired infection rate, wound infection rate and
patient complaint rate. With the assistance of the QA Coordinator, the QI group would: (a) investigate



132                                   Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
factors contributing to shortfalls in quality; (b) develop strategies for remedying shortfalls in quality and
prepare an implementation plan; (c) submit a report of the investigation and the implementation plan to
the QA Committee at the state level; and (d) implement the plan.
12.    Criteria Audit. Criteria auditing is a system to assess a hospital's patient care management
using criteria which have been developed by that particular hospital. By careful choice of criteria, it is
possible to determine whether a procedure was justified, whether the process of care was satisfactory
and whether the outcome was as desired. A subject of study, say a disease, would be selected by staff
concerned with the subject. The criteria for screening, diagnostic, treatment and outcome would be
developed and agreed by the QI group. The criteria are simplified and where possible quantified so that
any designated hospital personnel can check whether the criteria have been met. In a case where the
criteria have not been met, the QI committee would study the record-, to see if any departure from the
criteria is justified.
13.    Medical Audit.  In case of disputes or unexpected mortality, a medical audit would be
conducted. It examines retrospectively the clinical application of medical knowledge and compares care
rendered to preset standard of excellence.
Implementation
14.    State-wide implementation of the QA program would be undertaken after the conclusion of the
pilot testing. The first step in implementation would be to train hospital staff in quality assurance. Staff
must be aware of the principles and practical application in their discipline of quality assurance. The
training would be a short orientation course about the basic concept and approach in QA or a special
course of I or two weeks. The next step would be to implement the strategies or actions that will
improve the quality or overcome the identified problem.
15.    During the implementation, several approaches can be used to help identifv the problems within
a hospital. Where possible, existing information would be used as part of the review and evaluation.
This information would be in the form of incident reports, mortality rates, infections and complications
etc. and would usually be generated on a continuing basis. Other information may have to be collected
through the use of patient questionnaires, observation or other methods.
Management of QA Program.
16.    Management of the QA program in each state will follow the overall management structure as
laid out in Annex 8. Specifically, in K    the Joint Director for Hospitals will supervise the QA
program at the state level, while at the district level the District Surgeon will oversee the QA program.
In Puniab, the Joint Director for Referral, QA and Medical Audit will manage the QA program at the
state level, while the Assistant District Coordinator of Administration will oversee its implementation at
the district level. In West BenRal, the Additional Director of Health and Medical I will be responsible
for supervising the QA program at the state level, while the Assistant Project Officer of Administration
will oversee its implementation at the district level.
17.    Project SupRort. The project will support the activities of QA committee and QA working
groups at the state level. This will include: meetings, workshops, consultants, and development of
guidelines.






133                                    Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
MEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
1.    Waste management is a part of the routine hygiene and maintenance activities of a health facility.
Basic requirements such as reliable water supply, sanitary facilities, disinfection procedures and equipment are
vital to keep a health facility clean and at a satisfactory level of hygiene. Medical waste should be carefully
managed -- from the point of generation to final disposal. In most circumstances it is appropriate to consider
an incremental approach to addressing medical waste management issues at the institutional level.
2.    Inappropriate management of medical waste could cause transmission of HIV/AIDS virus, Hepatitis
B or Hepatitis C virus. This could happen through injuries caused by syringe needles or sharp instruments
that are infected by contaminated human blood. In addition to the above risks, hospital water sewage could
also transmit some diseases such as cholera to the surrounding neighborhoods.
3.     Medical waste may be produced in hospitals, health centers, clinics, nursing homes, laboratories,
research institutes, veterinary clinics, midwifery and other medical care conducted at home. About 85% of
medical wastes are non-hazardous wastes, 10% are infectious and around 5% are non-infectious but hazardous
wastes. The amount of waste generated varies by type of facility. In developed countries, waste generated
from general hospitals is estimated to be about 2.54.5 kg per bed day, while in Latin America it varies from
1.04.5 kg per bed day. A recent study estimated medical waste generated at hospitals in Bombay, Delhi and
Madras to range from 0.85 to 2.25 kg per bed day.
Classifications of Medical Waste
4.     There are several classifications used to categorize medical waste. WHO suggests the following:
General waste:     all non-hazardous wastes, similar in nature to domestic wastes.
Pathological       tissues, organs, body parts, human fetuscs, most blood and body fluids.
wastes:
Radioactive waste:  solid, gaseous waste contaminated with radionuclides generated from
diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.
Chemical waste:    solid, liquid and gaseous chemicals used in diagnostic, experimental work or
cleaning and disinfecting procedures. For the purpose of waste handling,
chemical waste should be categorized as toxic, corrosive, flammable,
reactive or genotoxic.
Infectious waste:    pathogens in sufficient concentration or quantity that could cause diseases.
Sharps:            needles, syringes, scalpels, etc.
Pharmaceutical     pharmaceutical products, drugs, chemicals that have been returned from
waste:             wards, spilled, outdated or contaminated.
Pressurized        those used for demonstration or instructional purposes, containing gas,
containers:        aerosol cans.
5.     Since there is an overlap between some of the categories, it may be advisable for developing countries
to use the following simplified classification for practical reasons: i) general wastes; ii) sharps; iii) infectious
waste other than infected sharps; iv) chemical and pharmaceutical wastes; and v) other hazardous hospital or



134                                    Annex 10
Page 2 of 6
medical wastes. Limiting the number of categories to five instead of eight will limit the number of separate
waste collection and storage channels.
The Process of Waste Management
6.    In general, the process of medical waste management at a particular hospital could be viewed as
shown in figure 1:
Figure 1: Flow of Hospital's Solid Waste
Source of                      Temporary                    Final
waste                       t storage                       disposal
internal                      external
transportation                transportation
7. -   Source of Waste. Waste can be generated in the patient ward, operating room, or examination room.
At this stage, infectious wastes, sharps and hazardous wastes will be segregated from general wastes and put
into different channels for disposal. The segregation of medical waste will be done by putting the waste into
different colored bags.
8.    Intemal Transportation. Internal transportation involves transporting the waste from the point of
generation to the place of temporary storage within the hospital. It is important that all colored bags are
securely fastened with adhesive plastic tape. The trolleys or carts must have surfaces which are smooth and
impermeable, that can be easily cleaned and drained, and that allow the waste to be easily loaded, secured and
unloaded. At all times, care should be taken to maintain bags in an upright position to prevent leakage.
9.     Temporar Storage. A temporary storage facility should be provided by designating an adequate
storage area to store the waste separately in accordance with color coded bags before finally disposing the
waste. If an incinerator is located within the hospital compound, the storage point should be as close as
possible to the incinerator site. The storage room should be kept secure, so that unauthorized persons would
not have access to the waste. Also, it should be kept out of the reach of animals, such as dogs, cats and
rodents.
10.    External Transportation: External transportation involves transporting the waste from temporary
storage to the final the disposal site. If the final disposal site, for example, an incinerator, is within the
hospital compound then no special vehicle will be needed. However, in certain urban areas the state
governments have decided to have one incinerator serve several hospitals, and will make the necessary
arrangements for transporting the waste.
11.    Final disposal of Solid Waste. Medical solid waste should never be disposed into water because of the
risks of polluting the water with chemical and microbiological materials. Therefore, solid waste should be
disposed at a land site or by the use of an incinerator.
12.    Present Practice. Due to insufficient resources and/or lack of understanding about the effects of
medical waste, safety in handling medical waste has not been a priority in the health care system in Indian
states. A study of waste disposal in a rural teaching hospital in. India revealed the following practices. Normal
waste was disposed in an open ground and burnt at irregular intervals. Disposable needles and plastic syringes
were discarded along with other general waste. Used surgical dressing, pads, cotton and gauze were disposed



135                                  Annex 10
Page 3 of 6
in open ground. Biological waste was treated more carefully, by disposing to the incinerator. Liquid or fluid
waste, including blood or other body fluids, was directly discharged into the sewer and sewage system
although the hospital was connected to the general municipal waste water system. Chemical wastes from
laboratories were washed off with water and discharged into the sane waste water system. All types of
hospital waste were transported from the point of generation to the main storage through hospital corridors in
small uncovered buckets. The waste was not sorted before being transported. The hospital incinerator was
operated and maintained by an operator who was not trained with respect to desired temperature, retention
timne, handling procedures, etc.. In the absence of relevant guidelines, any waste that was brought to the
incinerator was incinerated without sorting through the waste. Clearly much needs to be done to improve the
management of the waste disposal system at the hospital level.
Project Support
13.    The project will support the improvement of medical waste management in a comprehensive manner.
This would mean that implementation of existing policies and reguiations would be supported with adequate
budget, training and monitoring for compliance.
14.    Following a review of the existing practices, discussions with state, district and facility level
authorities were held to formulate a better approach for medical waste management. The issues discussed
included: systems development, development of a state-wide comprehensive plan for disposal of medical waste,
and an implementation plan. Key elements of such a plan to be adopted include: segregation of waste using
color coded containers; improvement of transportation, storage and final disposal methods; and improvement
of the handler's knowledge and handling skill through extensive training. By improving waste management,
the risk of affecting human health or the environment would be minimized.
Systems Development
15.   The project will support the development of a system to improve mcdical waste management. At the
state level, a Waste Management Unit will be set up and led by a person who has a management background.
This unit would be responsible for medical waste and related matters for the entire state, with its main concem
being the development of waste management policy, implementation strategies, coordination and monitoring
capacity. The expected outcomes of this unit would be as follow:
* Develop state level medical waste policy in line with the environmental protection policy;
*  Develop a comprehensive plan for the entire state, which would include all sectors concemed with
medical waste;
* Review policy;
* Coordinate inter-sectoral collaboration with regard to medical waste management, particularly in
urban areas;
. Develop guidelines related to medical waste handling that include segregation, storage,
transportation and final disposal; and
* Monitor implementation.
16.    At the district level, the District Health Committee would be the nodal point. The expected capacities
on medical waste matters are as follows:
* Supervisory capacity; to make sure that other hospitals or other primary care facilities at the
district area are implementing the waste managemnent system;



136                                      Annex 10
Page 4 of 6
*  Training capacity to provide training for staff who handle medical waste. For physicians, training
for medical waste handling would be integrated with the clinical skill training;
*  Logistics capacity for storage and distribution of bags and other supplies; and
*  Coordination capacity to coordinate the use of incinerators for several hospitals, especially in
urban areas.
17.    Facility Level. Each state has prepared a plan for improvement of the medical waste disposal for its
health facilities. This includes all first referral hospitals, tertiary hospitals and primary care facilities. These
facilities would segregate their medical wastes at the point of generation by putting infectious wastes, sharps
and hazardous wastes into different colored containers and different channels for disposal. For the purpose of
internal transportation, closed storage bins with wheels and wheel barrows will be provided to all hospitals
under the project. For final disposal, the states have proposed to adopt three methods: incinerators for large
institutions, purolators for small institutions, and burial method in wells or pits for primary care facilities. The
plan is provided in Table 1.
Features Specific to Each State
18.    Karnataka. Community/rural, sub-divisional and district hospitals would be provided with color-
coded closed bins with wheels as containers for segregating medical waste. In addition, wheel barrows will
also be provided for transporting the waste to the temporary storage area.
19.    All hospitals with 50 beds and above will be installed with incinerators. For small hospitals, such as
30 bedded hospitals, the state has proposed to provide purolators. For large cities (i.e., Bangalore, Mysore
and Hubli-Dharwad), the government has proposed to develop special landfills specifically for the disposal of
medical waste. In these cities there are many health facilities that could share the use of these landfills instead
of installing their own incinerators. It is also proposed that at a later stage the operation and maintenance of
thesc landfills could be financed through cost-sharing among the users.
20.    The Government of Karnataka has included the following specifications to ensure the safe operation of
the incinerators: (i) all emissions and residues should be pathogen free; (ii) chimneys must be designed and
constructed to remove combustion gasses effectively; (iii) incinerators must be safc to operate; and (iv)
incinerator capacity and feed rate should be adequate.
21.    For small institutions, such as PHCs and sub-center hospitlas, there is no proper provision for garbage
removal by the local authorities, even for ordinary garbage. The Government has decided that at these
institutions deep pits will be excavated in their back yards which will serve as the final disposal for medical
waste. Under the project, specific guidelines will be developed and disseminated to these facilities.
22.    Puniab. At present no first referral hospitals are provided with incinerators. With project assistance
incinerators of various capacities would be provided to all hospitals based on their bed strength and the
amount of waste likely to be generated at these institutions. 30 to 50 bedded hospitals will be provided with
incinerators of RI type, 100 to 200 bedded hospitals with R2 type, 400 bedded hospitals with P40 and those
with more than 500 beds with PIoo type.
23.    At the primary care facilities, including sub-centers, PHCs and CHCs, the state would construct deep
pits within the compound of these institutions. The project will support development of guidelines, manuals
and conduct necessary training.



137                                   Annex 10
Page 5 of 6
24.   West Bengal. An assessment was conducted of waste disposal methods in several Calcutta hospitals.
The assessment recommended that hospitals should make their own arrangements in dealing with waste
generated, since training of municipal staff for this purpose would be difficult. The state has accordingly
proposed to adopt methods of medical waste disposal through the use of incinerators, purolators for stearn
sterilization and K-type wells for the burial system. During the first two years the project will concentrate on
first referral hospitals. However, gradually the plan will include guidelines for tertiary and private hospitals.
25.   Incinerators will be made available for districts hospitals and some sub-divisional hospitals, where the
number of beds are larger than 300. In installing these incinerators, several guidelines from the government,
especially from the West Bengal Pollution Control Board, will be taken into consideration. For rural hospitals,
the state has proposed the use of the K-type well. The K-type well is well-lined with earthen rings or concrete
rings. The well has annular concrete steining and is plugged at the bottom. A concrete cover with locking
arrangement will be provided on the top.
26.    Training. The Government of West Bengal has developed a strategy for conducting training on
medical waste management. Training of the hospital superintendents will be incorporated in the Hospital
Management Training Program; training for doctors, nurses and technicians will be integrated in the clinical
skill training program. A prograrn for one day training at sub-divisional and district hospitals would be
developed for ward masters and sweepers.



Table 1: Waste Disposal System
System               of
Nature of waste         Segregation'         Final Disposal                                             Remarks
D.ll.         ~~~~S.D.11.            C.III/RI.1
1.    GCeneral Waste
Paper, kitcheln  waste,  Color coding        Disposable through  Disposable  through  Burial in land-
residential,    hospital  Black bin/trolley  Municipal systcm     Municipal system      fill or K-type
campus waste                                                                            well
2.      Sharps.       needIles   Special   container  Incinerators        Incinerators          Incinerators     Staff  handling
scalpels, scissors      for sharps, then put                                                            this  type  of
into yellow bags                                                                waste  will be
trained
3       Infectious waste:                            Incinerators         Incinerators          Incinerators     Staff  handling
Waste from  operating  Ycllow bag                                                                       this  type   of                  x
rooms, isolation rooms,                                                                                 waste  will be
dialysis rooms, human                                                                                    trained
tissue, materly wards,
etc.
4       Chemical          andl  Expired   medicine  Incinerators          Incinerators          Incinerators     Staff  handling
Pharmaceuticals:        will be returned to                                                             this  type   of
Drug    section    or  companies or                                                                     waste  will be
hospital dispensary     disposed in  yellow                                                             trained
bags
5       Other hazardous:        Autoclavcd       at  Incincrators         Incinerators          Incinerators     Staff  handling
Culture from laboratory  source and put into                                                            this  type  of
yellow bag                                                                      waste  will be
trained
Note: I) the color of the bags or containers wvould vary by states.                                                                  (IQ
oh



139                                Annex 11
Page 1 of 8
EPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
A. Epidemiological Surveillance of Communicable Diseases
1.    Epidemiological surveillance is the ongoing and systematic collection, analysis and
interpretation of health data in order to describe and monitor health events. Surveillance activities
include data collection, data compilation and processing, interpretation, actions taken and feed-back
(see Chart 1). The project will address only major communicable diseases, and the diseases to be
monitored will vary by state. Explicit criteria for these communicable diseases will be defined to avoid
any ambiguity in reporting by different institutions.
2.     Under this project, the states will establish a comprehensive and effective surveillance system,
which would aim at describing health events over time in a simple, flexible, acceptable, sensitive, and
accurate manner. The main purpose of this effort is to strengthen the capacity of district and state level
health administrations to monitor major communicable diseases and to prevent an outbreak or epidemic.
The development of a surveillance capacity and response capability for major communicable diseases
will focus on the following steps: identification through education of health workers and community
involvement; indexing of cases or isolation of cases and treatment; and tracing of contacts for
monitoring and evaluation. In the long-term, however, the surveillance system would need to be
expanded to include preventive examninations and immnunization of groups most likely to be infected; and
an enhanced response capability in case of outbreaks or epidemic. This project would fill some of the
gaps in the national disease programs by linking the three elements noted above and by providing
treatment at the secondary hospital level.
3.    In order to achieve these objectives, the states will institute the following approach: (i) enhance
data collection from various facilities; (ii) promote community involvement in data collection; (iii)
define and strengthen those organizational structures at district and state levels which are responsible
for surveillance; (iv) strengthen the capacity and capability of district level health administrator to
analyze and interpret data; (v) enhance the district level health admninistrator capability to provide a
rapid response to problems; and (vi) strengthen collaboration between district and state level health
administrators and various service delivery facilities.
4.     A working group was established in each state to conduct an assessment of the existing
surveillance system. Currently, a basic surveillance system exists at the primary health care level at
public facilities in Punjab, Karnataka and West Bengal. This surveillance system covers subcenters,
PHCs and Block PHCs. However, at the secondary or tertiary level there is virtually no surveillance
mechanism. The diseases that are reported and monitored at the primary level are mostly vaccine-
preventable diseases. Communicable diseases, which are treated at the secondary level, are therefore
not monitored by any institution.
Concept
5.     Data Collection. The comprehensive surveillance system proposed in the project will cover all
health care facilities, both public and private, throughout the states. The working group recommended
that the existing surveillance activities at the primary care level be integrated into the proposed state
surveillance system. The system will collect information on specific communicable diseases from these
facilities through regular reporting forms. In addition to the routine data collection, special efforts are
being proposed by the states. In rural areas of Punjab, information from the community level regarding



140                                    Annex 11
Page 2 of 8
communicable diseases will be collected by the multi-purpose health workers (MPHW, male and
female) during their routine field visits.  West Bengal will introduce a stamped red card for quick
transmission of information when a case of communicable disease occurs. The card will contain
essential data (name, age, sex, address, etc.) of every patient who suffered or died from the disease. As
soon as a case is detected, the card will be completed by the health provider and posted to the District
Surveillance Unit. In Karnataka, taluka hospitals will monitor surveillance reports from primary care
facilities within their areas. Anganwadi workers, school teachers and Gram Panchayat members would
provide community level information for the surveillance system.
6.     During project preparation, the states designed formats for daily, weekly and monthly reporting
of the incidence and prevalence of the identified diseases. Before implementing a state-wide program,
these formats will be tested in a pilot area of each state. At the hospital level, the project will
strengthen the information system on out-patients and in-patients. In addition, the project will introduce
a surveillance mechanism which will enable reporting of certain communicable diseases which are
treated at the hospitals through the regular reporting system.
7.     Strengthenina District Level.  At the district level, a District Surveillance Unit will be
established. This unit will receive reports from various facilities within the districts, process and
analyze the data, and provide information on trends of the monitored diseases. The Unit will therefore
be able to provide early warning signals of epidemic outbreaks and alert the other officials within the
district about the situation. The Unit will perform the following functions:
-  Act as a nodal surveillance unit at the district level, receiving regular reports from private
as well as public facilities (primary health care facilities and hospitals). In addition, the
Unit will receive red cards directly from health facilities, in case any communicable disease
is identified;
*  Analyze the data and review morbidity and mortality trends of the monitored diseases from
time to time;
  1'rovide early warning signals of epidemic outbreaks and alert the health officials about the
condition;
*  Coordinate with other related government agencies and local bodies, such as PWD, Fishery
Department, Irrigation Department, Indian Medical Association and Zilla Panchayat.
*  Assist local health facilities when there are increased cases, in order to overcome the
problem and prevent spreading of the disease to other areas; and
*  Send regular reports to the state level and provide feedback to health facilities.
8.     These district units will be headed by an epidemiologist and consist of sufficient technical staff
including an entomologist, microbiologist, statistician and medical officers. The units will be equipped
with a computer and specific software (e.g. Epi-Info) to process the incoming data from public and
private facilities within the district. The program will provide information on morbidity and mortality
patterns of the specific monitored diseases. In the event of an increase in the number of cases or deaths,
necessary action will be taken immediately.
9.     State Surveillance Unit. A State Surveillance Unit will be established at the state level This
Unit will become a nodal office for epidemiological surveillance of the entire state. Chart 2. shows the
flow of reports of various facilities from the district level to the state level. In West Bengal, the State
Bureau of Health Intelligence (SBHI) will be strengthenred and function as a state unit, while in
Karnataka, the state has proposed to transform the Health Intelligence Unit, presently functioning in the
Directorate of Health, into the State Surveillance Unit.



141                                    Annex 11
Page 3 of 8
10.    Additional Staff. Table I shows the staffing pattern proposed by each state for the District
Surveillance Unit and State Surveillance Unit. These posts will be filled through transfer of existing
staff and new recruitment. Karnataka has proposed the establishment of 20 District Surveillance
Units. About 100 additional staff will be required for these districts. These include entomologists,
micro-biologists, statisticians, medical officers and drivers. The district epidemiologist post will be
filled by existing staff. Punjab has proposed that all hospitals with 100 beds or more have a Health
Supervisor to fill out necessary report forms and undertake any case or outbreak investigation under the
supervision of a Senior Medical Officer or District Epidemiologist.
11.     Training.  An extensive training program has been designed by each state to support the
effectiveness of the surveillance system. The training for District Epidemiologist and key officials of
State Surveillance Units will be trained at the National Institute of Conmmunicable Diseases (NICD).
Health officials from various facilities will be trained at the district level (District Surveillance Unit)
with focus on the surveillance system and familiarization with reporting forms. For community-based
reporting the training will be conducted by the District Surveillance Unit.
Features Specific to Each State
12.    Karnataka. The state will transform the Health Intelligence Unit, currently functioning at the
Directorate of Health, into the State Surveillance Unit. Presently there are several Joint Directors (JD)
dealing with communicable disease, i.e., JD of Communicable Diseases, JD for Malaria, JD for
Tuberculosis and JD for Leprosy. These Joint Directors are responsible for prevention and control
activities, including surveillance of these particular diseases. It was proposed that the status of Joint
Director of Communicable Disease, within the newly structured State Surveillance Unit, will be
upgraded to that of an Additional Director post (see Chart 2 of Annex 8). At the district level,
surveillance activities related to the project will be coordinated by the District Surgeon and existing
surveillance of the vertical program will continue to be monitored by the District Health and FW
Officer.
13.    Puniab. At the state level, an Epidemiological Cell will be created and will be under the
coordination of Punjab Health System Corporation's Director of Medical Management. At the district
level, the surveillance activities will be headed by Assistant District Coordinator, Administration.
14.    At the hospital level, there is currently no infrastructure for conducting surveillance of
communicable diseases. It is proposed that all hospitals with 100 beds or more have a Health
Supervisor, who will fill out necessary report forms and undertake any case or outbreak investigation
under the supervision of the Senior Medical Officer or District Epidemiologist. This supervisor is also
to provide feed-back to the peripheral workers in the lower level facilities.
15.    With  regard  to  surveillance training, the  Corporation  will train  State  and  District
Epidemiologists at the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) for one month. The
training of the SMO and MO will be arranged at SIHFW  Kharar, Family Welfare Training Center,
Amritsar, for a period of 5 working days. Health supervisors and other staff will be given training
within their district for about 2 days. The period of training can, however, be increased depending upon
the feed-back received.
16.    West Bengal. At the state level, surveillance activities supported by the project will be
coordinated by Additional Director Health & Medical II (see Chart 6 of Annex 8). At the district level,



142                                    Annex 11
Page 4 of 8
it will be under the Assistant Project Officer, Administration. Opportunities for involving the private
sector will be explored.
B. Health Management Information System
17.    The Health Management Information System or HMIS is a mechanism for monitoring health
information which assists organizational needs, program implementation and monitoring, problem
solving, and system integration. The advantage of having an HMIS is that it allows for gathering,
processing, and analyzing of health data and provides quick insight into health performance indicators.
This in turn assists the implementation of programs that contribute to the improvement of health status.
Moreover, the improved data availability and linkage throughout the health care system allows for better
management and more efficient resource allocation. It also facilitates better monitoring of performance
indicators and surveillance of major communicable diseases
18.    Under the project, the state's HMIS will be strengthened by: i) making provisions for the linking
and sharing of health data at the three health care levels through computerization; ii) improving the
hospital information system; iii) strengthening the district level capacity to analyze data; and iv)
providing training for data analysis and computer use.
19.    Computerization of HMIS. The states will install computers at three levels: state head quarters,
district levels and at selected hospitals. Information will be passed between all three levels and in the
long run the computers themselves may be actually linked through a network. At the statc lveel, the
project will provide a Local Area Network (LAN) with a server and several work stations. This will
data from the districts; ii) analyze the data gathered; iii) provide feedback to districts; and iv) back-up
data allow the state head-quarters to: i) act as a nodal point for the compiling of gathered. The state
head quarters will also be responsible for development of software modules for the state-wide HMIS
and function as a training center for the district level. At the district level, one or more computers will
be installed to facilitate the entry of data from hospitals and perhaps PHCs. The district level HMIS will
also have limited capacity to analyze gathered data, before passing it to the state level. At selected
hospitals. a computer would be installed which will assist patient admission and registration, patient
and hospital accounting, management of medical records, patients care, office automation, inventory;
and overall administration. Synthesized hospital data Will be sent on a regular basis to the district level.
20.    Improvement of the Hospital Information System. The states will improve the hospital
information system through: i) development of standardized formats for in-patient records, out-patient
cards, registration and other forms; ii) revision of monthly/annually reporting format to be submitted by
hospitals; iii) improvement of storage facilities for medical records, and iv) training of medical records
person. The project will provide computers for selected hospitals.
21.    StrengtheninR of District Capacitv. In addition to computers installation, HMIS staff will be
trained to perform limited data analysis. The analysis will focus on evaluating performance indicators,
such as hospital activity, and efficiency indicators of all hospitals available in the district. However,
some analysis related to diseases surveillance will also be conducted by the HMIS staff. A software
package will be available at this level.



143                                   Annex 11
Page 5 of 8
Management
22.    In implementing HMIS, each state will have its own structure arrangement as shown in Charts
2 to 6 of Annex 8. The structure will consist of two layers, district level and state level. Punjab and
West Bengal will have special directors responsible for the HMIS, while in Karnataka HMIS will be a
part of the Hospital Directorate. The following paragraphs will explain specific arrangement for each
state.
23.    Karnataka. At the district level, HMIS will be under the mar.agement of the District Surgeon.
The District Surgeon will have several responsibilities that are project related, including monitoring the
referral system, planning and monitoring training activities, and surveillance of communicable disease.
At the state level, a Deputy Director will be appointed to manage the state HMIS unit. This unit will
maintain performance indicators of 202 hospitals included in the project. The Deputy Director will
report directly to the Joint Director of Hospitals.
24.    Puniab. An Assistant District Coordinator, Training, will be appointed at the district level to
administer several activities, including HMIS, training and medical records. He or she will report
directly to the District Coordinator as shown in Chart 5 of Annex 8. At the state level, there will be a
special director, Director ME and HMIS, who will be responsible for the monitoring, evaluation and
information system.
25.    West Bengal. At the district level, HMIS will be placed under the Assistant Project Officer for
Administration. This officer will coordinate several project activities including the improvement of
HMIS, surveillance, referral system, and waste management. At the state level, an Additional Director
HMIS & IEC will be responsible for the development of HMIS in the whole state.



144                            Annex 11
Page 6 of 8
Chart 1: Surveillance Elements
Collection of Data    J
Compilation of Data   j
Procesing & Analysis of Data
Investigation Required   -oFeedback
q;   Yes
Action Taken (Inference)                        Remedial Measures



145                                    Annex 11
Page 7 of 8
Chart 2: Proposed Flow of Reports
Occurrence of Health Event
Diagnosis
F                                       Reporting Sources
E
E                                       Physicians             I     Reporting Process
D                                       L42boratories
A                                       Hospitals
Schools
Vtal Records    
K
D.>
E
M
E                                              V
N                                        P         Level                       Data Nlanagement
A                               If(PHCs)                       I               Colection
T                                                                                 Initial entzy
N                                                                                   Editng
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~vAnalysis
Secondry Level                        Report generation
(Dis| ct Surveillance Unit                Report dissemination
Terday Level
(State Surveillance Unit)



146                                                 Annex 11
Page 8 of 8
Table 1: Staffing Pattern for Surveillance Systems
Punjab                                Karnataka                           West Ben  al
District Surveillance Unit
Medical officer Health                Micro-biologist
Entomologist                          Ass. Entomologist
Ass. Scientific
Ass. Statistic
Typist
Insect collector                      Insect collector
Health assistance [M  & F]            Health Supervisor
Driver                                Ass. Health
State Surveillance Unit
Deputy Director Malaria
Epidemiologist Malaria
District Malaria Officer
Medical Officer
Entomologist
Insect collector
Table 2: Major Communicable Diseases To Be Reported
Karnataka                                  Punjab                                      West Bengal
I     Japanese Encephalitis                I      Poliomvelitis                        I      Polio
2      Kyasanur Forest Diseasc             2      Measles                              2      Measles
3      Cholera                             3      Tetanus:                             3      Viral hepatitis
a. Neo-natal tetanus
b. Others
4      Gastro-enteritis                    4       Viral Hepatitis                     4      Japanese encephalitis
5      Plague                              5                                           5      Tetanus (neonatal and others)
6      Tuberculosis                        6      Diphtheria                           6
7      Malaria.                            7      Enteric Fever                        7
Table 3: Cost of H1IS in Project States
PUNJAU                             WEST BENGAL                             KARNATAKA  _
State Lewd  ' District Levd   Hospitasi  State Level  Distrnict Led   Hospitals   Stote Leve| District Lewd| Hosptls
Faalatv                  S 100.000     S 140.000   S140.000    S100.000      S170.000     S500.000    S100.000       S1200.000   S260.000
Comzputer Equipmctnt      S41.000       S54.000    SU4,000      S41.000      S102.000     S410,000      S41.000       ;60,000   S240.000
Sfware                    S 16,000      -          S 14,000     S 16.000      S17,000      S80,000     Sl6,000        S110000    S40.000
Stuff(2 yrs.)             172,000       -            -           72.000       -                         72.000        -        
OpifiRecsr.               S50,000       -            _          S50.000       -            _           S50.000        -            _
Tinqg                    S10.000       o10,000     15.000     S10.000        S I S.000    S20.000     S 10.000       S15,000   S110.000
ol Sub-Leweis           S289.000 1    S234.000  1243.000    S2S9.0W0        S304.000  S1.080.000     S2t9.000       S2U3.000   S550.000
otal Overall                       S757.000                              S1.673.000                             S1.124.000



147                              Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION STRATEGY
1.    The information, education and communications (IEC) component of the proposed
project will serve as a vital link between the various activities of the project, such as the
referral mechanism, the tribal strategy, the gender component, and the beneficiaries of the
project.  Specifically, the objectives of quality improvement and increased accessibility to
health care services require an enhanced level of knowledge and awareness amongst the
beneficiaries which can be facilitated by a well-designed and effectively implemented JEC
component. The IEC strategy, including target groups to be addressed, key messages to be
transmitted to each group, and media to be utilized, has been fine-tuned on the basis of the data
obtained from the Beneficiary Assessment studies undertaken in each state. An assessment has
also been made of the manpower and other resources required to implement the strategy, and
the administrative and management arrangements within the DOHFW and PHSC which will be
utilized to coordinate the development and implementation of the IEC strategy. The linkages
between the IEC component and other project components which will be addressed directly by
IEC, such as the referral mechanism surveillance system, the quality assurance program and
the tribal strategy, have been clarified.
Objectives
2.    Improving Access to Health Services. Access to health services is dependent not only on
physical distance and cost factors, but also on the levels of awareness and confidence that exist in
the minds of the beneficiaries -- particularly Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) and other
disadvantaged groups - with regard to the quality of services provided by the health care facility
and its staff. An important dimension of this is the sense of "care, courtesy and comfort" that
patients perceive throughout their interaction with the health care system.  Enhancing the
Willingness of beneficiaries to seek health care in a timely manner would bc an important objective
of the project.
3.    Lmproving Svstem Performance and the Oualitv of Services. The provision of additional
facilities, equipment and clinical as well as technical training is expected to result in a significant
improvement in the quality of service delivery. In this context, the IEC strategy will interact
closely with some of the key components of the proposed project to enhance their efficiency and
effectiveness. For example, IEC will be used to disseminate information on the functioning of the
referral mechanism to be strengthened under the project, and reduce wastage of time and resources
by directing patients to the appropriate level of care. The IEC component will also form linkages
with the surveillance system and HMIS which will be put in place under the project. This will give
the IEC agency access to vital information regarding the prevalence of communicable diseases and
other vital information in the states. Such information can be utilized to target IEC messages more
effectively. The IEC strategy will also take into account the objectives outlined by the tribal
strategies for health in Karnataka and West Bengal. It will be ensured that the design of the IEC
component assists in achieving the objectives of the tribal strategy.
4.    Improving Efficiency in the Allocation and Use of Health Resources. Since resources are
currently being used to provide free services to some people who can contribute to the costs,
allocative efficiency will be improved by increasing the health system's capacity to recover a part
of these costs. However, willingness to pay is a function not merely of ability to pay but also an
assessment of what is being paid for. The communications strategy would contribute to allocative
efficiency by raising the willingness of specific groups to pay user charges for selected services.



148                               Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
Communications Strategy
5.     Six broad strategies are proposed for the component: (a) increase awareness of the
services provided by first referral hospitals, particularly among lower income and
disadvantaged groups (such as tribals), and thereby increase utilization of the system;
(b) improve access to the expanded range of all reproductive health services among women;
(c) motivate all hospital staff to maintain good standards of patient care in terms of "care,
courtesy and comfort" so that the quality of services received by patients is enhanced;
(d) sensitize hospital staff to hospital equipment maintenance issues; (e) promote hospital
services to specific groups in a manner that increases their willingness to utilize these services
and, where possible, to share in the costs of service delivery; and (f) address specific public
health issues in each state such as road safety, alcohol abuse, healthy diet (particularly in
Punjab), women's issues etc.
6.     The strategy has been developed on the basis of decisions made with regard to:
(a) identification of target groups; (b) selection of messages; and (c) selection of media. The
rationale for each of these categories is as follows:
7.     Target Groups. Five groups will be included in the target audience. First government
functionaries working at the grass roots level -- anganwadi workers, gram sevikas, school teachers,
agricultural extension workers and multipurpose health workers -- would be targeted for
inforrnation pertaining to the availability of different types of health care at different levels within
the health care system. These workers are likely to be seen as opinion leaders by the populations
they serve and they can be key information sources in spreading knowledge about the availability
of services and the referral system. Second women would be considered as a priority target, since
their access to health facilities is comparatively low. They are, in addition, managers of the health
status of the household and have demonstrated their ability as a group to mobilize the community.
Third, patients who enter the hospital system would be considered a priority target. Their word-of-
mouth based on their first-hand experience will carry far more weight than any other channel of
communication. The imperative of creating satisfied customers, and thereby expanding the demnand
for services, particularly in tribal areas, must be recognized for the communication strategy to
succeed. Fourth, private practitioners and NGOs would be targeted because of their potential role
in referring patients, and because they should be aware of the improved standards of care in first
referral hospitals. Eifth, the population in the Sunderban Area of West Bengal and SC/ST groups
in Karnataka will be targeted, to raise awareness in those communities of the increased access to
and improved quality of primary health care services now available to them.
8.     Messages. The content of the messages that comprise the IEC strategy will vary based on
factors such as geography, seasonality and local considerations. For example, in Punjab, where
the incidence of non-communicable diseases such as cardio-vascular disease and cancer is
particularly high, IEC will focus on prevention and treatment of such diseases; in Karnataka,
where there is a relatively high incidence of traffic accidents, lEC will focus on issues of road
safety as well as the availability of emergency facilities at first referral hospitals. In Karnataka
and West Bengal, where tribal populations are significant project beneficiaries, IEC will focus on
disseminating information to tribal groups about service availability, timing of OPD and other
facilities, user charges and the referral mechanism.



149                               Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
9.     Media Selection. Media selection would depend upon the outreach of different media to the
various target groups. One of the most important media for the IEC strategy is the employees of
the health care institutions. The manner in which they treat outpatients, inpatients and visitors will
have the greatest impact of all the possible channels that may be employed. It will, therefore, be
essential to provide training on communication and education to staff on patient and visitor
handling. Training modules are being developed for this purpose. Further, training inputs will be
sustained and supplemented through periodic internal "campaigns" to remind employees of their
role in delivering quality health care. For the potential beneficiaries, the priority medium would be
functionaries working in health and related sectors, who will be given in-house tours to enable them
to understand the changes that have been instituted within the hospitals. Such tours would also be
arranged for the elected Gram Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat representatives. The IEC strategy
would also focus on periodic waves of printed communication to higher levels in the Health
Department and in hospitals. Finally, the use of well-designed signs within hospitals, as well as in
PHCs, providing information on what services are available and where, would be used as an
efficient and low-cost medium.
Implementation
10.   There is a full-fledged IEC wing functioning within the Health Department of each state.
However, they have been focusing on Family Welfare and MCH related activities. There is also a
Health Education wing functioning under the Health Department. This wing will provide support
to the IEC wing in the development and implementation of the IEC strategy. In addition,
professional communications agencies will also be used on a contractual basis to develop IEC
materials and will coordinate their activities with an official designated by the IEC wing to the
project.
I.    In Kamataka, the IEC strategy will be coordinated by the Deputy Director (Hospitals
North) and Deputy Director (Hospitals South) at the state level. At the district level, the Mass
Media officer would be in charge of disseminating IEC material and would report to the District
Surgeon, who serves as the coordinator of all project activities at the district level.
12.   In Punjab. a new post of Deputy Director, IEC (mass media) has been created at the state
level. This officer would work under the Director M&E and HMIS. The Mass Media Officer at
the district level would be responsible for dissemination of IEC material in a particular district, and
would report to the Deputy Medical Commissioner.
13.   In West Bengal at the state level, IEC is the responsibility of the Additional Director,
HMIS and IEC, who would report directly to the Project Director. At the district level, the Mass
Media Officer would be responsible for IEC activities in a particular district, and would report to
the District Project Officer, who would coordinate all project activities at the district level.
Timing
14.   It is proposed that communication activities will be commenced in a phased manner. Some
aspects of the IEC strategy, such as the public health and gender components, would begin early in
project implementation. More project specific aspects will be implemented after enhancement of
physical premises, equipment upgradation and manpower development steps have been completed
since prematurely initiated IEC activities can be counter-productive.






150                                  Annex 13
Page 1 of 5
TRIBAL AND UNDERDEVELOPED AREAS STRATEGY
1.     Introduction.  In both Karnataka, with a 3.3%  Scheduled Tribe population, and West
Bengal, with a 5.9% Scheduled Tribe population, tribal peoples would be substantial beneficiaries
of the proposed project. Punjab does not have a tribal population. During project preparation, a
number of workshops were held to facilitate stakeholder identification of health care problems in
rural as well as tribal areas as well as to develop, through a process of consultation, an appropriate
tribal strategy for Karnataka and West Bengal.  In addition, Beneficiary Assessment studies,
involving the informed participation of tribal groups, have been undertaken in tribal and rural areas
of Karnataka and West Bengal and have: (i) provided a social context analysis for establishing the
current distribution of and access to health care facilities in rural and tribal areas; (ii) provided an
institutional analysis to understanding the supply factors which adversely affect health care
utilization; and (iii) assessed the perception and attitudes related to health needs and health seeking
behavior of tribal populations (see Annex 17 -- Social Assessment).
2.     Health Awareness and Related Behavior Among Tribal Populations. An important finding of
the study is the low hospital utilization rates of the tribal and rural population in both Karnataka and
West Bengal. The study also focused on the following issues in the two states:
*  Physical Access. Clearly, hospital services provided by the Government are inadequate in rural
areas. Distance traveled to reach first referral hospitals seems to be an important factor in
determining utilization. Community hospitals in tribal areas are located very far from tribal
hamlets, with poor transportation and communication facilities, and often with no convenient
residential arrangements for the medical personnel.  Non-availability of staff, particularly
doctors, is stated to be the most important reason for preferring private medical care over
Government hospitals. In addition, the insensitivity of medical personnel strongly influences
the commnunity's confidence in them. Especially in emergency situations, the easy accessibility
and ready availability of quacks or underqualified doctors is a major determining factor of
community preference for their services. Another important issue is the non-availability of
necessary drugs and medicines at first referral hospitals, particularly for curative care, which
has been identified as a major constraint to patient satisfaction. The community, however,
seems to be willing to pay for the medicines provided by the hospital staff.
* Social Access. Results from the qualitative survey conducted in the two states indicate that
tribals have a special set of social beliefs and practices which affect their health seeking
behavior. "Illness" was perceived as an inability to discharge one's daily duties. Illness was
reported earlier amongst children than adults. Gender differentials were less conmmon until the
age of 12, after which it was observed that illness among girls was reported late. An estimated
30% of tribals still approach the traditional healer first, and go to a hospital only if the
treatment provided by him is ineffective. Communities seemed to be generally better aware of
causes responsible for fevers (sunstroke, mosquito bite), diarrhea, dysentery and jaundice
(polluted water and food). However, chicken pox, measles, leprosy and epilepsy were ascribed
to supernatural powers. Consequently, more money is spent on rituals and traditional healers
for the latter diseases. In the case of diarrhea, a doctor is consulted vithin a day or two of onset
if there is no improvement in the patient's condition, since the cokz.t.lunity is aware that diarrhea
could be fatal. Children suffering from measles and chicken pox are kept secluded, and a paste
of neem leaves and turmeric is applied on the body-followed by a bath and rituals. Persons



151                                Annex 13
Page 2 of 5
suffering from TB and leprosy are isolated since the community perceives them as being
dangerous to their health.
* Economic Access. The data show that substantial costs - on fees, drugs, tests and transport -
are being incurred by tribals and disadvantaged populations possibly because they postpone
treatment until the problem  has become very acute.  In addition, due to the relative
inaccessibility of Government health care services, these populations are approaching the
private sector for their health care needs. However, a majority were of the opinion that,
although private hospitals offered modern equipment and convenient service, the costs of
treatment were prohibitive, and few of them could afford to consistently visit a private
practitioner.  Moreover, it was felt that the private practitioners commitment to low-cost
preventive care was minimal, and that in the case of emergencies a Government hospital was
much more likely to provide efficient service.
3.     Tribal and Underdeveloped Areas Strategy. The project's tribal and underdeveloped areas
strategy in Kamataka and West Bengal is aimed at increasing the demand for hospital services in tribal
and underdeveloped areas by improving the quality of services provided; by providing effective IEC to
better inform tribal populations of the benefits of using health services at secondary hospitals; and by
providing primary care services at selected sites. The number of beds at sub-divisional and community
hospitals located in tribal and underdeveloped areas will be increased to reflect a share of beds at
secondary hospitals that is much more commensurate with their proportion in the overall population of
the states. In addition to increasing the bed strength in tribal and underdeveloped area hospitals, the
project would: (a) strengthen linkages between primary and secondary health care services; (b) provide
an incentive package to doctors and other medical staff in tribal and underdeveloped areas to encourage
them to accept assignment in these areas; (c) incrcase the appropriate utilization of non-tribal medical
systems by the tribal population; and (d) reduce the cost to tribals and disadvantaged populations of
utilizing the system.
4.     Specific project components have been developed in both Karnataka and West Bengal on the
basis of this infornation, and these are described below.
West Bengal
5.     Of the total West Bengal population of 68 million (1991), 3.8 million or 5.9%  are STs. 5
large ST conmnunities - Santhals, Oraon, Munda, Bhumij, and Kora - constitute 84% of the state's
ST population. There are 35 other smaller groups of tribals dispersed across the state, of whom 3
have been designated as primitive tribal communities.
6.     The Government of West Bengal has had a Tribal Welfare Department looking into the
special needs of tribal peoples since 1952.  This department was subsequently renamed the
Scheduled Castes and Tribes Welfare Department in 1967, and has initiated and implemented
several programs in education, including grants and scholarships; construction of schools and
hostels; provision of books, clothing and mid-day meals; economic upliftment, including
development of land and irrigation facilities, supply of seeds and fertilizer, soil conservation, and
cottage industries; social sectors, including provision of medical facilities, drinking water supply,
houses and house-sites, legal aid, and provision of grants-in-aid for voluntary agencies working
with tribal peoples.



152                                 Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
7.     Access to Health Services in Tribal Areas. According to GOI service delivery norms for
tribal areas, a sub-center is to be provided for every 3,000 population and a PHC for every 20,000
population, as against a norm of a sub-center for every 5,000 population and a PHC for every
30,000 population in other rural areas. There are now 303 sub-centers, 47 PHCs and 28 rural
hospitals located in the tribal areas of the state. The Government plans to set up additional sub-
centers and PHCs to bring their numbers up to the population norms.
8.     Services provided in these health facilities include disease control, such as malaria, filaria,
tuberculosis, gastroenteritis, Japanese encephalitis and kala-azar; other preventive programs;
maternal and child health programs; and ayurvedic and homeopathic treatments.
9.     Proposed Strategy for ImRrovine Access to Ouality Health Care. The following are the
project activities in support of the tribal strategy described in para. 3:
* strengthening health care delivery in tribal areas. A large section of tribal and disadvantaged
peoples still depend on traditional healers, or sometimes the local quack, since they do not have
adequate access to public health services and cannot afford a qualified private doctor. In order
to address this issue, under the Sunderban plan, all 28 rural hospitals located in underdeveloped
areas will be strengthened under the project. In addition, 17 hospitals located in areas with a
sizable tribal population will also be strengthened (see Annex 19).
*  strengthening linkages between priinary and first referral health care services. The available
evidence points to the urgent need to strengthen linkages between primary and first referral
levels of health care, particularly with respect to the referral of tribal and disadvantaged
patients. Special efforts would be made to disseminate referral administrative guidelines and
referral protocols to primary health centers in these areas. The Zilla Parishad would also
construct rest-houses close to the first referral hospitals for the convenience of patients and their
families who have been referred to hospitals far from home, requiring an overnight stay.
Transport would also be provided free of charge from the referring facility to those patients
who cannot afford the cost of public transport.
*  increasing incentives for medical staff in tribal and underdeveloped areas.  Staff would be
provided incentives to increase their commitment to serving in tribal and underdeveloped areas
in a variety of ways. Additional staff quarters will be provided to all grades of staff with the
construction of new staff quarters in tribal areas. Other benefits, such as extra credit to doctors
and other staff for PG qualification admission and for fellowships; enhanced opportunities for
transfer to urban areas after serving in a tribal area for 4-5 years; and preference to the children
of doctors in tribal areas for admission in Government-run schools. This would encourage
doctors and staff to work in tribal and underdeveloped areas and provide quality services. This,
in turn, will increase the credibility of the health care system for tribal and disadvantaged
patients and encourage them to approach health care facilities more readily, when necessary.
*  increasing the appropriate utilization of the government health services delivery network by
tribal and disadvantaged populations. An important intervention aimed at encouraging the
health seeking behavior of tribal and disadvantaged populations is an IEC program targeted
particularly at increasing their awareness of disease. The IEC program would also increase the
awareness and sensitivity of medical staff to tribal customs and culture, as 1 means to



153                                 Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
improving the client-provider relationship in tribal areas and promoting the level of comfort that
tribal peoples feel in the health facility.
reducing the cost to tribals and disadvantaged populations of utilizing the first referral health
care system.  The analysis clearly shows that the poor, including tribals, are bearing a
disproportionate burden of health care costs (see Annex 17) and they will be exempted from
user charges, particularly for drugs and tests, which constitute the major share of expenditures
incurred at Government health facilities (see Annexes 5 and 17). The rest houses to be provided
by the Zilla Parishad, mentioned earlier, will also contribute in the reduction of the cost
burden. In addition, the Government will coordinate with NGOs, where possible, to provide
transportation and/or food to needy patients and attendants.
Karnataka
10.   The ST population in Karnataka is about 2 million or about 3.3% of the state's population.
They are geographically dispersed across the state, and are not a homogenous population. Some ST
households who live in the plains are quite modern and well integrated with the rest of the
population. Such households have considerably improved their economic and social position.
However, other STs are primitive tribes, many of them hill and forest dwellers. The health
indicators amongst this latter group tend to be very poor, due to their isolation and poverty.
11.    An overall assessment clearly indicates that there is need for special targeted interventions
for the STs. Within these communities, there is a special need to improve access to and quality of
health care delivery for women.
12.    Proposed Strategy for Improving Access to Quality Health Care.   The tribal and
underdeveloped areas strategy to be implemented in Karnataka will include components similar to
the ones proposed in West Bengal. In addition, the Government of Karnataka proposes to
implement a well-designed program of primary care interventions to improve the availability of
health services for SC/ST households residing in rural areas.  A major activity planned in this
context would be a system of annual health check-ups for all SC/ST families, which would include:
(a) physical examination, including pulse, B.P., eyes, ears, nose, teeth, tongue, skin disorders,
disabilities etc.; (b) systemic examinations, including cardiovascular, respiratory etc.; (c) simple
laboratory investigations; and (d) special examination of women, including pelvic examination and
FW services. A record of the health check-up would be maintained in a master register and each
individual would be issued a health check-up card free of cost.
13.   Implementation Plan. The state has a large network of 7,793 Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
(ANM) sub-centers which on average cater to a population of about 3,000 persons, of which about
40 would be tribals. The medical check-up will be scheduled in Health Check-up Camps to be
organized in the ANM sub-centers according to a timetable to be drawn up by the District Health
and Family Welfare officer. A team of medical professionals consisting of the Medical Officer of
the Primary Health Center (PHC); Lady Medical Officer specially drafted for this purpose from a
Government hospital; laboratory technician; Lady Health Visitor; ANM; and one para-medical staff
would then visit the sub-center on the scheduled date. The team would carry with it such
equipment and other materials as are required for a thorough medical check-up. Doctors and other
staff would utilize the PHC vehicle where feasible. Where such a vehicle is not available, a vehicle
will be hired for transporting staff and equipment to the camps.



154                                 Annex 13
Page 5 of 5
14.   Referral. Cases requiring further treatment would be referred to the nearest Government
hospital where appropriate facilities are available. A referral card would be issued to the patients,
and such patients would get free treatment at referral hospitals where necessary.
15.   Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign. Prior to the date on which
the health check-up is scheduled in a particular village, the ANM and male health worker would
make house to house contact with each SC/ST household and provide information regarding the
venue, timing and purpose of the health check-up. A particular target for IEC activities would be
women, since they are less likely to avail themselves of the facility provided. This would e..sure
that the maximum number of households attend the camp. The camps would also be a good venue
for IEC activities relating to the dJs.emination of general public health issues.
16.   Drugs and Medicines.  Based on an average of Rs. 10 per person towards drugs and
medicines to be dispensed at the time of the check-up, an amount of Rs. 500 will be allotted for this
purpose to each camp.
17.   Lady Medical Officers (LMOs). In some districts, particularly in the Hyderabad - Karnataka
region, adequate numbers of LMOs are not available in the Government sector.  Given the
importance of the LMO in encouraging women in SC/ST communities to seek health services at the
camps, the services of available lady doctors in the district hospital would be utilized for the check-
up. In some cases, the services of private lady doctors available at the district and sub-divisional
levels will be utilized, with the payment of an honorarium of Rs. 300.
18.    Pilot Introduction of the Scheme. It is proposed to introduce this scheme in the 5 districts
of Mysore, Hassan, Kolar, Bijapur and Raichur during the first year of the project. It would
subsequently be extended to the districts of Belgaum, Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, Gulbarga
and Bellary.  Before extending the scheme to the next set of districts, an impact analysis of the
scheme on the access of SC/ST families to health care delivery, and on the improvement of their
health status would be conducted.
19.   Monitoring and Supervision.  The PHC Medical Officer will be responsible for the
implementation of the scheme. The work done by the PHC MO will be monitored by the newly
designated Taluk Level Medical Officers. A District Level Committee will be constituted with the
CEO, Zilla Panchayat as Chairman. The composition of the Committee will be as follows:
Chairman: CEO, Zilla Panchayat; Members: District Surgeon; Principal of the local medical
college; District Information Publicity Officer; Representatives of 2 voluntary organizations;
Assistant Director, Women and Child Development; and District Health and FW Officer.
20.    The Committee would: (a) review progress of the scheme on a monthly basis; (b) arrange
wide publicity for the camps; (c) secure full involvement of voluntary organizations; and
(d) approve expenditure incurred. A monthly progress report would be sent to the Joint Director
(Planning), who would be responsible for monitoring and reviewing the scheme at the state level.






155                              Annex 14
Page 1 of 14
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
1.    Background and Obiectives. Between February, 1995 and October, 1995, a number of
studies were conducted as part of project preparation in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal.
These studies collectively comprise the Social Assessment (SA), and include the Beneficiary
Assessment and the Review of the Private Sector. The SA was undertaken in an environment of
intense collaboration between the World Bank team; local research organizations including the
Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), the Foundation for Research on Underprivileged
Groups (FRUG), and Operations Research Group (ORG); the respective state Governments; local
Government; and representatives of NGOs and the private sector.
2.     Components. The SA had four components: (i) a social context and institutional analysis,
identifying and selecting specific areas within each state that are geographically, socially and
culturally distinctive, differentiating between rural and urban areas, and describing and analyzing
the organizational and legal framework of the health care network in the state; (ii) an analysis of
health needs, including an analysis of service utilization of both private and Government health
services differentiated by income level, gender and social grouping (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled
Tribe), and an analysis of the access and coverage of both traditional and allopathic systems of
medicine in the more remote areas of the state, especially for more disadvantaged and tribal
groups; (iii) an assessment of health seeking behavior amongst women and tribal populations; and
(iv) a review of the role played by the private sector in health care provision, including the scope of
the private sector, the role of NGOs, and the opportunities for contracting-out support services to
the private sector.
3.     Stakeholder Participation. An important aspcct of the SA was thc involvement of key
stakeholders. Preparation of the project devoted special attention to facilitating a sense of
owncrship and commitment of those involved in the process. They included: (i) the Government of
India (GOI), state Governments and agencies responsiblc for project implementation; (ii) the
beneficiaries, i.e., the individuals, groups and communities who would benefit from the proposed
intervention; (iii) wvomen, scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST); and (iv) others with a
vested interest in development initiatives, including other donor agencies, NGOs, religious and
community organizations, local authorities and the private sector.
4.     A number of participatory activities were incorporated into project design:
*  three preparation workshops, organized by GOI, involving central and state Govemment
officials, including the Health Secretaries of 11 participating states; representatives from
WHO; the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy; the Gujarat Institute of
Development Research; ASCI; the Indian Institute of Health Management and Research; the
All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health; and the IDA team were held in Hyderabad in
November, 1994, in Jaipur in February, 1995, and in Shimla in June 1995, in which the group
discussed health sector issues with regard to financing and implementation and agreed on a
strategy for future activities;
*  beneficiary assessments were conducted in each state, with Terms of Reference agreed with
IDA, to determine the level of service availability; undertake a social context analysis of the
geographically, socially and culturally distinctive features of each state; undertake an
institutional analysis to understand the supply factors influencing health care utilization;



156                               Annex 14
Page 2 of 14
determine the health needs of communities, particularly women and SC/ST populations; study
the social, physical and economic constraints to access to health care; and estimate the private
costs of seeking treatment;
*  private health sector studies were also conducted in each state, with the intensive participation
of private medical professionals, to understand the scope of private sector involvement in
health care delivery; the role of NGOs in the health sector; the coverage and cost of alternative
systems of medicine; the potential for contracting-out services, particularly support services, to
the private sector by the Government; and the current level of regulation and monitoring of the
private sector.
*  technical norms workshops were held in Bangalore, Chandigarh, and Calcutta to develop and
reach a consensus on service norms for the different tiers of the health system viz, the
community, sub-divisional and district level hospitals. Participants included officials from the
Directorates of Health of the respective states, private medical practitioners, members of the
academic community, the project preparation teams and members of the IDA mission.
Subsequently, training workshops were held in Karnataka and West Bengal involving state
medical officials, academics, and private practitioners, to determine the training needs for
medical personnel from different disciplines functioning in different tiers of the health system;
* the participation of local NGOs was encouraged in all states. In Karnataka, for instance, an
NGO functioning in the tribal areas of southern Karnataka participated in discussions between
the Government of Karnataka and the IDA mission. In West Bcngal, the IDA team discussed
the scope of NGO work with the Tagore Society in the Sunderban area. Similar discussions
were held in Punjab. Useful suggestions were made in all cases with regard to health care
delivery for underprivileged groups.
5.     Methodology. The studics were designed to provide answers to a scrics of questions which
would enable the project preparation team to fine-tune the proposal to bcst scrve the felt health care
needs at the community level. Some of these questions were: Who are the stakeholders? Are the
objectives of the project consistent with their needs, interests and capacities? What social and
cultural factors affect the ability of stakeholders to participate or benefit from the intervention
proposed? What will be the impact of the project on women and vulnerable groups? What are the
social risks which might affect the success of the project? What institutional and management
arrangements are needed for participation, and is there a plan for building capacity at the
appropriate levels?
6.     A multi-pronged strategy was adopted to gather the information required for the SA. The
basic demographic, epidemiological and socio-economic data were gathered from  secondary
sources. These included the Statistical Abstract and Medical Directory of each state for data
regarding the availability of medical services, utilization of services and other hospital-based data;
National Sample Survey (NSSO) 42nd. round for discussions on rural-urban differentials in health
facilities, public-private health facilities, paying-non-paying wards and cost differentials;
Household Survey of Health Care Utilization and Expenditure (NCAER, 1995) for an
understanding of the morbidity pattern at the state level and health care utilization and expenditure;
and secondary information from selected health facilities on the availability of scrvices, drugs and
infrastructure.



157                               Annex 14
Page 3 of 14
7.     Primary data consisted of quantitative data regarding the supply factors affecting health
service delivery, linkages between traditional and allopathic medicine, physical, social and
economic factors affecting utilization of health services, and cost of treatment; and qualitative data
regarding the relationship between health, nutrition, sanitation, and hygiene, social services
currently being offered by the Government/NGOs, health needs of the community, perception and
attitudes related to health seeking behavior, gender differentials in health seeking behavior, and the
cost of seeking treatment. The primary data was generated in a variety of ways: through
participatory observation, interviews, case studies, focus group discussions and rapid rural
appraisal.
8. Health Status in the Three States
* Kamataka. The population of Karnataka in 1991 was about 45 million, with urban areas
accounting for about 31 percent of the population. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
formed 16.4 and 4.0 percent respectively of the population. 40% of the population is below the
poverty line compared to about 33% for India as a whole.
-  In Kamataka, the birth rate of 26.3, death rate of 8 and infant mortality rate of 67 per
thousand live births compares to the national averages of 29.3, 9.8 and 80 per thousand live
births respectively. Howevcr, neonatal and post natal mortality and still birth rates have
increased during the late 80's and early 90's. In the last decade, the number of patients
admnitted in government hospitals has increased by 60 percent, putting a great deal of pressure
on hospital facilities. During the period 1982-92, the increase in inpatients has been greatest
for the treatment of infectious diseases, neoplasm, endocrine, nutritional and metabolic
diseases and immunity disorders, complications due to pregnancy and puerperium, and injuries
and poisoning.
*  West Bengal. With a total population of 68 million, Wcst Bengal is the most densely
populated state in India (about 770 per square kilometcr). 39% of the population is below 15
years of age, and only 27.5% is urban. Thc largc rural population is mainly agricultural, with a
predominance of small and marginal farmers. It is cstimated that more than 30% of the rural
population lives below the poverty line. Scheduled Tribes constitute 5.6% of the population
and 23.6% belong to the Scheduled Caste.
*  West Bengal has a birth rate of 25.6, death rate of 7.3 and infant mortality rate of 58 per
thousand live births. The fact that more than 50% of the disease burden is attributable to
matemal and child health and communicable diseases is good reason for selecting a package of
interventions at the primary and first referral level that would cost-effectively address the
major health care needs in the state.
*  Punjab. twenty-nine percent of the population of Punjab lives in urban areas. The sex ratio of
882 females per thousand males as against the national average of 927 females per thousand
males, according to the 1991 census, is a matter for gravc concem. In 1991, the per capita
income was US$554 equivalent, and 12% of the state's population was below the poverty line.
However, as in other states, there is substantial regional variation in per capita income. The
Upper Bari Doab area, in the northwest comer of the state, has 40% and Southem Malwa has
25% of its population below the poverty line.



158                                 Annex 14
Page 4 of 14
* Punjab has a birth rate of 27.7, a death rate of 7.8 and an infant mortality rate of 53 per
thousand live births. In terms of outpatients seen at medical institutions, the Annual
Dispensary Report also shows that 76 percent of the disease burden is due to non-
communicable diseases; acute respiratory infection is the other major disease burden at 17
percent. These figures when compared to other Indian states reflect the health transition
underway in Punjab. (Details of the epidemiological profile in each state are given in Annex
1).
9.     Major Findings. With a few variations between states, the main findings of the SA can be
sunmmarized as follows:
10.    Profile of Users of First Referral Hospitals
*  Demographic Characteristics. Irrespective of the type of hospital, the majority of users
belonged to the age-group 16-35. Women and children below the age of seven demonstrated a
clear preference for facilities closer to home and predominantly used the community and sub-
divisional hospitals, while men were the predominant users of district hospitals.
e  Socio-economic Characteristics. On average, the distribution of users by caste, literacy level
and place of residence (urban/rural) are comparable to the average distribution of these
populations in the state as a whole. However, the proportion of patients who are literate,
urban residents, and higher caste and income groups tended to increase in higher level
facilities, indicating that the most disadvantaged and needy sections of society havc limited
access to district hospitals.
i  Nature of Ailment. About half the users visitcd the hospital for trcatmcnt of acute mcdical
conditions such as fevcr, cough, diarrhea etc. A larger proportion of paticnts at the community
hospital level suffered from acute medical conditions compared to the district hospital level.
District hospitals were preferred for chronic medical, surgical, obstetric and orthopedic cases;
while sub-divisional hospitals were used predominantly for injuries.
*  Distance Traveled. More than two-thirds of respondents resided within a distance of 10 kms.
of the hospital utilized, and about a third of the respondents were within walking distance. The
proportion of users within walking distance was highest in primary and community health
centers, and decreased in higher level hospitals.
*  Referral Mechanism. Less than 2% of those interviewed at secondary hospitals reported either
consulting or being referred by the staff at a Primary Health Center, indicating that the referral
system is functioning very poorly. Two thirds of those interviewed had consulted a private
medical practitioner, particularly for chronic ailments. A large number had either approached
the hospital of their own accord, or been advised to do so by relatives.
11.    Profile of First Referral Hospitals
* Physical Access. Although, in general, patients are within 10 Kms. of a first referral hospital,
there are pockets in all the states where physical access is an important issue. The Sunderban



159                                Annex 14
Page 5 of 14
area of West Bengal, for example, consists largely of swamps, tidal estuaries and dense forest.
Transport and communication networks are inadequate, and riverine transport between the
network of 54 islands is unreliable. This area poses special challenges in the health sector,
since cases of snake bite, shark bite, crocodile bite and tiger mauling are not uncommon. In
addition, the population in the Sunderban consists largely of poor and marginal farmners, 40%
of whom belong to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes (SC/ST). In the case of Karnataka,
the northem districts of Bidar, Bijapur, Gulbarga and Raichur have historically been neglected
in terns of health sector development and health indicators tend to be poor in these areas.
There is a special need to strengthen health care networks in these areas, and to encourage the
development of the private and NGO sectors to provide outreach services which the public
health services are unable to provide.
Social Access. According to hospital sources, the proportion of hospital users belonging to
SC/ST groups is commensurate with their proportion in the general population. However,
considering the poor socio-economic condition of these groups, and their low nutritional level,
the morbidity and mortality in this population is greater and warrants a higher utilization of
secondary hospital services. An additional issue is the low utilization of health services by
women. In Karnataka, for example, the NSS survey indicates that the sex ratio among
hospitalized cases is 786 females per 1,000 males, whereas the sex ratio in the population is
960 females per 1,000 males. The average household expenditure per illness was found to be
lower for women and girls as compared to their male counterparts. Given the results of the
NCAER survey (1993), which reports that the morbidity among females aged 15-59 is 10%
greater than among men in the same age group, there appears to be a significant bias against
females in both hospitalization and intra-household allocation of health resources.
*  Services Available. There are no norms for the provision of services at the different level of
first referral hospitals (community, sub-divisional and district). Basic specialist services i.e.
medicinc, surgery, gynecology/obstetrics, and pediatrics arc availablc at all first referral
institutions. In addition, at district hospitals, other specialist services such as orthopedics,
ENT, ophthalmology, skin and S.T.D. and blood bank are available. Dcntistry services are
available at some district level hospitals, but not at others. Hence, there is considerable
overlap between the first referral hospitals, and inconsistency between different regions within
each state.
*  Personnel. While there is not a general shortage of trained medical and para-medical staff,
there is a shortage of medical personnel in rural and remote areas of all the states. Moreover,
the absence of certain specialties at sub-divisional and district hospitals was reported
repeatedly. In Karnataka and Punjab, for example, the presence of a gynecologist at the sub-
divisional hospital was found to be of special importance. In Punjab, a need was expressed for
more pediatricians at district hospitals. There is considerable difficulty in placing doctors in
rural and remote areas in both West Bengal and Punjab.
*  Maintenance. At present, approximately 2% of the original cost of construction is allocated
annually towards the maintenance of the hospitals in each of the states. This sum is grossly
inadequate. There are additional problems created by the fact that maintenance of secondary
hospitals is in the charge of the Public Works Department (PWD) rather than the Health
Department. Leaking roofs and peeling plaster are atommon sight in most hospitals.



160                                 Annex 14
Page 6 of 14
Equipment and Vehicles.  Some of the major equipment at secondary hospitals is non-
functional. A shortage of well trained technicians was reported to be a significant problem.
There is also a lack of regional workshops at the district level, which could expedite equipment
and vehicle repair and maintenance.  In the absence of such subsidiary workshops, all
maintenance jobs need to be handled at the central level, leading to overload and delays.
* Laboratory Services. Only basic laboratory services are available even at the district hospital
level, due to shortages in reagents, antigens and other equipment.  At sub-district level
hospitals, laboratories are under-equipped and laboratory technician posts are vacant, with the
result that the laboratories are non-functional. In Karnataka and Punjab, there is no provision
for the post of pathologist in any of the hospitals.
* Training. Most in-service training programs are oriented towards on-going national programs,
such as CSSM, UIP and Blindness Control. No in-service training is offered to update the
clinical skills of medical and para-medical personnel on a regular basis, except in West Bengal
where a training program for doctors at district hospitals is in place. Hospital administrators
also reported a need for training in managerial skills to better fulfill their duties.
12.    Health Awareness and Related Behavior Amone Tribal and Disadvantaged Populations:
This component of the SA deals specifically with health seeking behavior among tribal and
disadvantaged populations in Karnataka and West Bengal. Punjab has no tribal population. An
important finding of the study is the low hospital utilization rates of the tribal population.
* Physical Access. Clearly, hospital services provided by the Government arc inadequate in
rural areas. Distance traveled to reach first referral hospitals seems to be an important factor
in determining utilization. Community hospitals in tribal and underdeveloped areas are located
very far from the village, with poor transportation and commnunication facilities, and often with
no convenient residential arrangements for the medical personncl. Non-availability of staff,
particularly doctors, is stated to be the most important reason for preferring private medical
care over Government hospitals. In tribal areas, the insensitivity of medical personnel strongly
influences the community's confidence in them. Especially in emergency situations, the easy
accessibility and ready availability of quacks or underqualified doctors is a major determining
factor of community preference for their services.  Another important issue is the non-
availability of necessary drugs and medicines at first referral hospitals, particularly for
curative care, which has been identified as a major constraint to patient satisfaction. The
community, however, seems to be willing to pay for the medicines provided by the hospital
staff.
* Social Access. Results from the qualitative survey conducted in the two states indicate that
tribals have a special set of social beliefs and practices which affect their health seeking
behavior. "Illness" was perceived as an inability to discharge one's daily duties. Illness was
reported earlier amongst children than adults. Gender differentials were less common until the
age of 12, after which it was observed that illness among girls was reported late. An estimated
30% of tribals still approach the traditional healer first, and go to a hospital only if the
treatment provided by him is ineffective. Communities seemed to be generally better aware of
causes responsible for fevers (sunstroke, mosquito bite), diarrhea, dysentery and jaundice
(polluted water and food). However, chicken pox, mtasles, leprosy and epilepsy were ascribed
to supernatural powers. Consequently, more money is spent on rituals and traditional healers



161                                  Annex 14
Page 7 of 14
for the latter diseases. In the case of diarrhea, a doctor is consulted within a day or two of
onset if there is no improvement in the patient's condition, since the community is aware that
diarrhea could be fatal. Children suffering from measles and chicken pox are kept secluded,
and a paste of neem leaves and turmeric is applied on the body followed by a bath and rituals.
Persons suffering from TB and leprosy are isolated since the community perceives them as
being dangerous to their health.
* Economic Access. The data show that substantial costs -- on fees, drugs, tests and transport -
are being incurred by tribals and disadvantaged populations possibly because they postpone
treatment until the problem  has become very acute.  In addition, due to the relative
inaccessibility of Government health care services, tribal populations are approaching the
private sector for their health care needs. However, a majority were of the opinion that,
although private hospitals offered modern equipment and convenient service, the costs of
treatment were prohibitive, and few of them could afford to consistently visit a private
practitioner. Moreover, it was felt that the private practitioners commitment to low-cost
preventive care was minimal, and that in the case of emergencies a Government hospital was
much more likely to provide efficient service.
13.    Causes for the Under-Utilization of First Referral Hospitals
* Shortage of Staff. Non-availability of staff, particularly doctors, is stated to be the most
important reason for preferring private medical care over Government hospitals. Most
laboratory technician and supervisory cadre posts arc either vacant, or the posted persons are
on prolonged dcputation at the district headquarters. In tribal areas, the insensitivity of
medical personnel strongly influenced the community's confidence in them.  Especially in
emergency situations, the easy accessibility and ready availability of quacks or underqualified
doctors is a major determining factor of community prefercnce for their scrvices.
- Shortage of Medicines. Non-availability of necessary drugs and mcdicines at first referral
hospitals, particularly for curative care, is identified as a major constraint to patient
satisfaction. The community, however, seems to be willing to pay for the medicines provided
by the hospital staff.
* Poor Access. Accessibility of first referral hospitals seemed to be an important factor in
determining utilization. Some district hospitals are located such that they are inaccessible to a
large proportion of the district's population. In fact, some residents preferred to visit the
neighboring district hospital, since it was more accessible than their own.  Similarly,
community hospitals are located in remote areas, with poor transportation and communication
facilities, and often with no convenient residential arrangements for the medical personnel.
14.    The Role of the Private Sector:
m The private sector in health care delivery is unorganized, and is operated by a mix of qualified
and unqualified practitioners. The private sector is rclatively better developed in Karnataka
and Punjab, particularly around urban centers, than in West Bengal. Services are provided
mainly through small clinics and nursing homes. Most privatc practitioncrs dispense allopathic
medicine, although homeopathy and ayurved are also widespread. Both preventive and



162                               Annex 14
Page 8 of 14
curative services are provided, while emergency and medico-legal cases are generally referred
to Government first referral hospitals.
* The main advantage of the private sector health facility is its easy accessibility. Not only are
private clinics better located in urban areas, there is also the facility of round-the-clock
availability of a specialist on the premises, unlike in the case of a Government hospital where
doctors are available only for a fixed number of hours every day. In addition, due to better
maintenance and sanitation, and more courteous treatment by the medical personnel, private
hospitals are perceived to be providing better services than Government hospitals.
* A majority of patients visiting private clinics belong to the middle and upper socio-economic
classes, since the costs of private treatment are very high when compared to a Government
hospital. In West Bengal, for example, it was found that, of out-patients visiting a private
practitioner, 58% spent about Rs. 100, 23.9% spent Rs. 100-300, and 6.9% spent more than
Rs. 300 on medicines in the preceding three months. By comparison, the figures for those
visiting a Government hospital are 28.3%, 12% and 5.4% respectively. In other words, only
about 10% of out-patients are spending less than Rs. 100 in the private sector, as against
almost 55% of out-patients visiting Government hospitals.
* Of those belonging to the low-income and tribal groups, a majority were of the opinion that,
although private hospitals offered modem equipment and convenient service, the costs of
treatment were prohibitive, and few of them could afford to consistently visit a private
practitioner. Moreover, it was felt that the private practitioners commitment to low-cost
preventive care was minimal, and that in the case of emergencies a Government hospital was
much more likely to provide efficient service.
Actions Recommended
15.    The SA has made an important contribution to the overall cffort to assist the states of
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal to design a cost-effcctive and sustainable health system. The
broader sectoral policy reforms such as improvements in health planning capacity, management
effectiveness, allocation of public resources for health, and enhanced role of the private sector
Nvould increase the efficiency of the health sector by improving the environment in which the health
sector operates and by optimizing resource use. The technical and quality improvements, including
operations and maintenance functions, at the institutional and health facility levels will enhance the
effectiveness and efficiency of health care services by encouraging patients to seek timely care
resulting in higher cure rates at lower costs. The strengthening and upgrading of selected aspects of
the primary health care system for implementing the various priority health programs and provide
basic health care in rural areas would have a direct impact on improving the health status of the
people by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability. The SA has contributed to developing the
following strategies and project design issues:
16.    Streamlining of Norms.  In order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the
functioning of the different levels of the first referral hospital network, to reduce overlap in the
services provided at such hospitals, and to reduce wastage of resources, technical norms
workshops were held in each state. The purpose of this workshop was to reach a consensus on
services that would be provided in the different tiers of the health system viz. the community, sub-
divisional and district level hospitals. Based on the service norms that were developed in each state,



163                                 Annex 14
Page 9 of 14
the participants subsequently developed staffing and equipment norms, equipment maintenance
plans, referral system, training needs assessments, and management systems. The implementation
of these recommendations will help reduce both the duplication of services and wastage of
resources that characterize health service delivery. Preliminary estimates show that, when
implemented, this streamlining and rationalization will result in considerable efficiency gains.
Estimates in Andhra Pradesh have suggested that as much as 33% of cost could be saved by
treating patients at first referral facilities rather than at tertiary level health facilities.
17.    Referral System. An adequately functioning referral mechanism  would improve the
effectiveness of the primary health care level and encourage a greater participation of the private
sector in health care. In reality, the referral system in these states, as in the rest of India, does not
function well. The different tiers do not complement each other, the lower tiers are underutilized
and institutional and technical linkages between the lower and the higher tiers are weak. Moreover,
less than 2% of the patients at first referral facilities are referred from PHCs.
18.    The project would seek to ensure that a much higher proportion of patients coming to first
referral hospitals had been seen at a Community/rural hospital and referred upwards. Likewise,
for those patients going to tertiary hospitals, the project would implement several measures to
strengthen the referral system and improve the quality of care at the first referral level. These
include: (a) strengthening the management of the referral system; (b) implementing the referral
protocols that specify the "what", "when" and "how" of referrals; (c) implementing clinical
management protocols that specify the essential processcs of clinical management by staff who
manage common conditions without the direct supervision of relevant specialists; and (d)
establishing an incentive system (explained below). Special attcntion would also be given to
establishing mechanismis to improve access for remote and disadvantagcd groups and tribal
communities. The project would establish linkages and communications between the first referral
and primary health care levels. The first refcrral hospitals would provide clinical and tcchnical
support to the PHCs; clinical skills at secondary facilities would be updated and upgraded;
technical support for the primary level of carc and community hospitals would be strengthened;
rcferral mechanisms between community, subdivisional and district hospitals would be
strcngthened; and mechanisms to provide greater access to secondary and higher levels of health
care would be formulated by making the referral system more timely, effective and client-friendly.
The Governments of Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal would strengthen the referral system by
establishing an incentive system with differentiated user fees for users and non-users and allowing
patients to by-pass waiting lines when they carry a referral slip.
19.    Selective Investments in Primarv Health Care. especially for Women and SC/ST
Populations. The project's tribal and underdeveloped areas strategy is aimed at increasing the
demand for hospital services in tribal and underdeveloped areas by improving the quality of
services and providing effective IEC to better inform tribal and disadvantaged populations of the
benefits of using health services at secondary hospitals. The number of beds at sub-divisional and
community hospitals located in tribal and underdeveloped arcas will be increased to reflect a share
of beds at secondary hospitals that is much more commcnsurate with their proportion in the overall
population of the states. In addition, to increasing the bed strength in tribal and remotc hospitals,
the project would: (a) strengthen linkages bctwecn primary and secondary health care services; (b)
provide an incentive package to doctors and other medical staff in tribal and underdeveloped areas
to cncourage them to accept assignment in these areas; (c) increase the appropriate utilization of



164                                Annex 14
Page 10 of 14
non-tribal medical system by tribal population and reduce the cost to the poor, including tribals, of
utilizing the system (see Annex 16).
20.   In addition, the project would provide much greater access to women, particularly rural
women, and improve the quality of services they receive. More specifically, by strengthening the
referral mechanism and linking the community hospitals with primary health centers, the project
would assist in providing timely access to emergency obstetric care. The project would also
promote a life-cycle approach to women's health, taking into account some of the main
recommendations of the Cairo Conference on women's reproductive health, such as screening for
reproductive tract infections (RTIs) and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), providing
appropriate information, education and communication (IEC) to promote the value of the girl-child,
and increasing women's awareness of their options in terms of health care.
21.    Specific components included in the project to address these issues are: Upgrading of
Primary Health Centers in the Sunderban Areas of West Bengal. The Sundarban area in southern
West Bengal, with a population of about 3.1 million people, is among the poorest regions in the
state and is most lacking in adequate health facilities. It is therefore proposed that the project
would upgrade all PHCs and block PHCs in the region. In addition, three floating medical units
will be set up to deliver effective health care in the riverine areas and would be supported by
wireless connection. A wireless communication system will also link up the 36 PHCs and block
PHCs with the gram panchayat office. Increasing Access to Primary Care Services Among SC/ST
Population in Karnataka . A system of annual health check-ups is proposed under the project for
the SC/ST population of Karnataka, which account for nearly 20% of the population. The medical
check-ups will be made available in health check-up camps to bc organized at thc headquarters of
every auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM).
22.    Means-tested Cost Recovery. Previous sector work indicates that the revenue collectcd in
the three states from user charges varies between 3% and 7% of the health budget of the states.
International experience in developing countries with somewhat higher per capita incomc than
India, and where the performance of the public health sector has been relatively better, show that
revenue collected from user charges accounts for about 15-20% of the health budget. The
Governments of the three states recognize the importance of increasing revenue collection through
user charges for the sustainability of the sector. The strategy with regard to the implementation of
user charges takes into account both the willingness of most people to pay something towards
services rendered, given improvements in the quality of basic services and infrastructure i.e.
voluntary payment, and the need to adequately exempt the poorest sections who simply cannot
afford to pay. In order to encourage greater voluntary payments of user charges, the state
Governments have stated that user charges would be more widely implemented in a phased manner
for treatment and diagnostic services, after the improvements in quality have been implemented.
Fees for services such as paying beds, cabins, and charges for a range of diagnostic services and
outpatient registration fees would be more widely implemented. User fees would be used
specifically for non-salary recurrent cost purposes, particularly to purchase drugs and medical
supplies. The Governments would institute adequate administrative mechanisms for collecting user
fees and enhance the Governments' resource generation capacity through the appointment of key
staff in its Finance and Audit unit. (See Annex 5 for details on exemptions for the poor).
23.   Increasing the Scope for Private Sector Involvement in Service Deliverv. Contracting-out
Selected Services. Private contractual services are often more efficient and effective than direct



165                               Annex 14
Page 11 of 14
labor. In view of the difficulties of employing government staff, such as slow recruitment and
absenteeism, contracting-out certain services, especially support services, becomes even more
attractive. It has been confirmed that there are no legal barriers inhibiting the use of contractual
services for support functions and that the Contract Labor Regulation and Abolition Act (1970),
which prohibits certain institutions from contracting-out perennial services, exempt hospitals and
health care facilities. In order to cut costs and increase efficiency, the Governments of Karnataka,
Punjab and West Bengal would review and propose implementation of private contractual services,
especially supporting services.
24.    Linkages with the Private and Voluntary Sectors. The state Governments have proposed
to enhance the participation of the voluntary sector, especially for improving access to primnary
health care and first referral services in remote and underdeveloped areas of the Sunderban in West
Bengal and for disadvantaged groups, particularly SC/STs in Karnataka. The state Governments
are also exploring opportunities for contracting out the delivery of health care in remote areas to
the voluntary sector which has a comparative advantage in improving access to such health
services for some disadvantaged groups. On matters of ensuring the quality of health care
provision, state Governments would also play a more pro-active role, through legislation such as
the Nursing Home Registration Act which is pending Parliamentary clearance in Karnataka and
Punjab.
25.    Decentralization of Management and Administration. Retention and Use of Revenue
Collected. To provide incentives to hospitals for collecting user charges, all three states have
proposed to implement a system that would ensure that revenuc collected through user charges
would not go back to the state treasury in Kamataka and West Bengal. The revenue collected
through user charges would be retained at the district level to be reallocated by district level health
authorities amongst hospitals in the district, based on both nced and level of revenue collection. In
Punjab, revenue collected would be retained at the point of collection.
26.    Project Management. During preparation the Government stated that the DOHFW did not
have the capacity to implement a project of this scope. In addition, a project preparation workshop
held in Chandigarh recommended that an independent agency would be more suitable to implement
the proposed project. Therefore, a model similar to the APVVP was adopted. The IDA mission
recognised the implication of the proposed management structure and the initial start-up problems
this would entail. However, the benefits of this approach, namely, the independence to carry out
project work more efficiently, implementing user charges and being more self-sustaiiing in the long
run, outweigh the possible associated risks.
27.    Civil Works and Maintenance. Due to the scope of the civil works component and the
need to ensure adequate maintenance of assets, the Health Department's role in Karnataka and
West Bengal would be strengthened by providing it with enhanced management and supervision
responsibilities of essential operational activities including construction and maintenance activities
in collaboration with local government. These responsibilities now lie with the Public Works
Department which would be unable to adequately fulfill its obligations to the Health Department
due to the diverse functions it is called upon to perform. A Design and Engineering Wing would be
set up in the Health Department at both the state and district levels, and flow of funds would be
channeled through DOHFW. In addition, a maintenance cell will be established in each large
hospital to manage day-to-day emergent maintenance works. In Punjab, the establishment of a
Health Systems Corporation with substantial autonomy in carrying out essential operational



166                                Annex 14
Page 12 of 14
activities would facilitate implementation of the project at both state and district levels, and the
flow of funds would be channeled through the Corporation.
28.    Workforce Issues. There is currently no acute shortage of professional staff overall, but
there is a shortage of some medical specialties and nurses. The first step would be to improve
recruitment and prompt filling of job vacancies by improving the main procedures. The states will
put appropriate regulations in place so that state Governments have the authority to: (i) advertise,
appoint, promote and transfer staff internally; (ii) post staff as needed, especially in tribal areas;
(iii) introduce appropriate incentives to retain staff in remote areas including: provision of staff
quarters, bonus at the end of a specified period of posting, educational allowance for children of
staff posted in remote and tribal areas, additional leave eligibility and extra weightage for doctors
and other staff for PG qualification admission and for fellowships; and (iv) relax service rules as
necessary to maintain service when appropriately qualified staff are unavailable.
29.    Information. Education and Communication. Six broad strategies are proposed for this
component: (a) increase awareness of the services provided by first referral hospitals, and the
functioning of the referral system, particularly among lower income and disadvantaged groups
(such as tribals), and thereby increase utilization of the system; (b) improve access to the expanded
range of all reproductive health services among women; (c) motivate all hospital staff to maintain
good standards of patient care in terms of 'care, courtesy and comfort' so that the quality of
services received by patients is enhanced; (d) sensitize staff to hospital and equipment maintenance
issues; (e) promote hospital services to specific groups in a manner that increases their willingness
to utilize these services and, where possible, to share in the costs of service delivery; and (f)
address specific public health issues in each state such as road safcty, alcohol abusc, healthy diet
(particularly in Punjab), and women's issues.
30.    Five groups will be includcd in the target audiencc.  First, govcrnmcnt functionaries
working at the grassroots level -- anganwadi workers, gram sevikas, school teachers, agricultural
extension workers and multipurpose health workers -- would be targeted for information pertaining
to the availability of different types of health care at differcnt levels within the health care system.
These workers are likely to be seen as opinion leaders by the populations they serve and they can
be key information sources in spreading knowledge about the availability of services and the
referral system. Second, women would be considered as a priority target, since their access to
health facilities is comparatively low. They are, in addition, managers of the health status of the
household and have demonstrated their ability as a group to mobilize the community. Third,
patients who enter the hospital system would be considered a priority target. Their word-of-mouth
based on their first-hand experience will carry far more weight than any other channel of
communication. The imperative of creating satisfied customers, and thereby expanding the demand
for services, particularly in tribal areas, must be recognized for the communication strategy to
succeed. Fourth, private practitioners and NGOs would be targeted because of their potential role
in referring patients, and because they should be aware of the improved standards of care in first
referral hospitals. Fifth, the population in the Sunderban area of West Bengal and SC/ST groups
in Karnataka will be targeted, to raise aw areness in those communities of the increased access to
and improved quality of primary health care services now available to them.



167                                Annex 14
Page 13 of 14
Poverty Aspects
31.   In India the public health system is utilized predominantly by the lower income groups,
especially at the secondary level. Those who can afford to pay usually prefer using private
hospitals. Country-wide health sector studies have shown that the public sector hospital care seems
well targeted to the poor, with over seventy percent of public hospital users being from the lower
forty percent of income distribution. These findings are confirmed by the beneficiary assessment
for Karnataka, which includes an analysis of secondary hospital patients by family income. This
anal- s'is found that in Karnataka over 45 percent of the patients have an annual income below Rs.
15,000 (close to the official poverty line), and over 90 percent of the patients have an annual
income below the taxable level of Rs. 50,000.
32.    General Poverty Imnact. By improving health service quality, access, and effectiveness at
the secondary level, this project will disproportionately benefit the poor and underprivileged
segments of the states' population. Beneficiary studies in the project states have shown that while
the poor are the major users of these public health facilities and would therefore benefit from any
improvements within the secondary health system, perceived quality, access and effectiveness of
health interventions at this level are major barriers faced especially by the poor. This project will
also focus on addressing these barriers and thereby increasing the utilization of these services by
the poor.
33.    Si,ecial Poverty Interventions/Areas of Emphasis. In addition to having the overall aim of
improving secondary health services for the poor, each state has undertaken special initiatives
under this project in order to rcach the most vulnerable and poor: In West Bengal, where 44
percent of the people are below the poverty line and rural povcrty avcrages around 48 percent,
poverty in the Sunderban Areas lies yet above this average. In addition to including some of the
poorest populations of the state, the Sunderban face the additional problem of being remotc,
difficult to access, and having low availability of even primary health care services. This project
wvill seek to redress the problems that the poor in thcsc remote areas face in accessing health carc,
by upgrading all primary health centers in the Sunderban Areas. In addition, three floating medical
units supported by a wireless communications system will be set up in order to enable effective
primary health care deliver in these remote, rivenrne areas.
34.   In Karnataka, where the percentage of people in poverty at 38 percent is close the all-India
average, the main issues of the poor's access to health services center around increasing access to
primary and secondary health care services for the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe populations
of the state. Beneficiary assessments have shown that these are the people with the highest
percentage of poverty and often with the least access to public health services. In order to reach
out to these populations, heighten their awareness of the types of services available, and to improve
their health indicators, Karnataka will institute a system of annual health check-ups for the entire
SC/ST population. These health check camps would serve as a early screening forum for
preventive health care, would enable direct IEC to communicate the levels of health care services
and facilities available, and would above all increase basic health care delivery to some of the
poorest segments of the population.
35.   In Punjab, the percentage of people below the poverty line is the lowest in the country, at
12.7 percent. This figure, however, masks great regiQnal differences within the state. In the
poorest region of the state, the Upper Bari Doab area, 30 percent of the overall population and 40



168                                Annex 14
Page 14 of 14
of the rural population live below the poverty line. In the next poorest region, Southern Malwa,
rural poverty is 25 percent. Since this project focuses on first-referral hospitals, which are usually
located in the rural areas, it is these high rural poverty rates in the two regions of Punjab that are of
real concern. To address the issue of access and equity faced by the rural poor in these two
regions, 57 percent of the first-referral hospitals to be upgraded will be located in these poorer,
rural areas. Moreover, 61 percent of the total cost of hospital upgradation in Punjab will be
allocated to hospitals in the Upper Bari Doab and Southern Malwa areas. By focusing the project
on the areas with a greater percentage of people below the poverty line, Punjab airns to redress the
current difficulties of quality and access to health care services faced by the poor.
36.    Exempting the Poor from User Charges. Although the implementation of user charges in
order to contribute to the long-term sustainability of the first referral health system is justified,
there is a very valid concem regarding the targeting of poor people for exemptions from user
charges. Given the differences in management and administration, income levels and underlying
structure of the economy in the three states, it is proposed that different income criteria by state be
applied for exempting the poor from user charges. Details of an appropriate exemption mechanism
to be implemented in each state are provided in Annex S.



169                                               Annex 15
Page 1 of 24
PROJECT COSTS
Table 1: Cost By Component
(Rupee Miolion                  (USS MUli                 S      S TO
Com_                                                                                          Focal      am
Lcl    Fortln      Toba      Local   Foreign    TO       E    _     C
1. Manogem m Developint h& Ititutionai Steupheening
la- Improve Inmtioutonai Framework for Policy Develpmene  58.3     16.4      74.7       1.7        .5      2.1      22%        1%
lb- Strengtien Manqemernt & Implementaton Capacity     667.5    105.4       772.9      19.2       3.0     22.2      14%        6%
Ic - Develop Surveillance Capacity                      61J        h         22.        LA         A       La       in         11
Subtotal      789.6    137.1      926.7      22.7       3.9      26.6      15%       7%
!. improve Ser iyk Quality, Acc and Effectivenes
la- Renovate & Extend Community. Area & District Hospitals  4.085.9    740.8   4.826.7  117.4    21.3    138.7      39%        0%
2b-UpgradeClinxEffrectiveresu                         3,982.7   1.431.8   5.414.5     114.4      41.1    155.6      43%        0%
2c - Improve Refcemia Mechanim                          =02.    '200        &BZJ        LB        1.Q     12         41        o1
Subtotal    8.271.4   2,452.6  10,724.0    237.7       70.5    308.2       86%       0%
3 -InproveAc    tBuicHeakb Servlc                        611.0    233.8       844.9      17.6       6.7     24.3       7%       0%
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   9,672.1   2.823.5  12,495.6    277.9        81.1    359.1      100%      0%
Physical Conticncies                                   890.5    279.6   1.170.1        25.6       1.0     33.6       9%        0%
Price Concinogenes                                    2.340.9    684.9   3.025.7       18.5       5.4     24.0       7%       0%
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   12.903.5   3.788.0  16.691.4    322.1        94.6    416.7      116%      0%



170                                             Annex 15
Page 2 of 24
Table 2: Cost by Categories of Expenditure
(Rupee Million)               (USS Millienl                   S TOl
Foeig     S_,
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Ex_*n       a Ce
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                         1.131.1    199.6   1,330.7     32.5       5.7    38.2      15%       11%
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)            2,737.3    483.0   3.220.3     78.7      13.9    92.5      15%      26%
Professional Services                             356.1      89.0     445.1     10.2       2.6    12.8      20%       4%
Furniture                                         304.7      33.9     338.5      8.8       1.0      9.7     10%       3%
Major Medical Equipment                           562.7    844.1   1,406.8      16.2      24.3    40.4      60%       11%
Minor Medical Equipment                            43.3      10.8      54.2       1.2      .3       1.6     20%
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs                 81.0      20.3     101.3      2.3       .6       2.9     20%       1%
Equipment (Other)                                 763.1    190.8      953.8     21.9       5.5    27.4      20%       8%
Vehicles                                          109.9    329.8    439.7        3.2       9.5    12.6      75%       4%
Medical Lab Supplies                              127.9      32.0     159.9      3.7       .9       4.6     20%       1%
Medicines                                         401.5 * 401.5       803.0      11.5     11.5    23.1      50%       6%
Other Supplies                                    550.3               550.3      15.8        -    15.8        -       4%
MIS/IEC Materials                                  156.2     52.1     208.3      4.5       1.5      6.0     25%       2%
Local Training                                    220.5         -     220.5      6.3         -      6.3       -       2%
Studies                                            66.7         -      66.7       1.9        -      1.9               1%
Fellowships                                         6.2      55.6      61.8       .2       1.6      I.8     90%        -
Workshops                                          51.5         -      51.5       1.5               1.5       -
Consultants                                         12.4                12.4     .4         -       .4
NGO's                                               18.7               18.7       .5                .5        -        -
Total Investment Coats                             7.701.0  2,742.4  10,443.4    221.3      78.8   300.1      26%       84%
Kecurrent Losts
Salaries of Additional Staff                     1.225.2        - 1,25.2        35.2         -    35.2                10%
Operational Expenses                              473.5      52.6     526.1      13.6      1.5    15.1      10%       4%
Building Maintenance                               69.4       7.7      77.1      2.0        .2      2.2     10%       1%
Surgical Pack Maintenance                           2.9        .2       3.1       .1        .0       .1      5%        -
Vehicie Mainenance                                  15.6      1.7      17.4       .4        .0      .5      10%        -
Equipment Maintenance                             170.2      18.9     189.1      4.9       .5       5.4     10%       2%
Furniture Maimenance                                14.3        -      14.3       .4         -       .4       -        -
TotalRecurrentCosts                                1.971.1     81.1   2,052.2     56.6       2.3    59.0       4%       16%
Total BASELNE COSIS                                 9.672.1  2.823.5  12,495.6    277.9      81.1   359.1       23%      100%
Physical Contingencies                            890.5    279.6   1,170.1      25.6       8.0    33.6      24%       9%
Price Contingencies                             2.340.9    684 9   3.025.7      18.5       5.4    24.0      23%       7%
Total PROJECT COSIS                                12.903.5  3,788.0  16,691.4    322.1      94.6   416.7       23%      116%



171                                             Annex 15
Page 3 of 24
Table 3 Project Totals: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Costs in Rs. Millions
Foreignm
Base Cost in Indian FY                           Exchange
96/97     97/9h      981f99    992000    2000101       Total       %       Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                    186.4     248.2      412.1      376.0       107.9    1.330.7       15%       199.6
Civil Works (New ConsLr or Extension)      490.7      802.7      964.3      747.1      215.5    3.220.3        15%       483.0
Professional Services                       67.9      102.6      133.0      109.0       32.7      445.1       20%         89.0
Furniture                                   29.2       81.2       98.8       67.0       62.2      338.5        10%        33.9
Major Medical Equipment                    104.1      323.1      412.9      299.1      267.6    1,406.8       60%        844.1
Minor Medical Equipment                      5.4       10.8       16.2       10.8       10.8       54.2       20%         10.S
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs          10.1       20.3       30.4       20.3       20.3       101.3      20%         20.3
Equipment (Other)                          103.2      234.9      258.4      189.2      168.1      953.8        20%       190.8
Vehicies                                    91.2      148.7       82.2       61.4       56.3      439.7       75%        329.8
Medical Lab Supplies                         8.4       20.1       30.4       41.0       59.9       159.9      20%         32.0
Medicines                                   49.0      110.7      166.2      204.4      272.7      803.0       50%        401.5
Other Supplies                              46.7       81.0      131.9      144.2      146.4      550.3
MIS/IEC Materials                           24.7      107.1       44.8       22.9        8.8      208.3        25%        52.1
Local Training                              20.5       48.5       54.0       49.3       48.1      220.5           -          -
Studies                                     15.4       14.8       14.2       12.4        9.9       66.7           -          -
Fellowships                                  8.9       17.8       19.5        7.9        7.7       61.8       90%         55.6
Workshops                                    7.1       11.2       13.3       11.2        8.6       51.5           -          -
Consultants                                  3 3        3.7        3.9        0.9        0.7        12.4
NGO's                                        5.0        5.5        5.9        1.3        1.0        18.7
Total Investment Costs                      1,277.2    2.393.0    2,892.5    2,375.4    1.505.3   10.443.4       26%      2,742.4
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                91 1      209.5      272.4      307.1      345.0    1.225.2           -
Operational Expenses                        27.1       68.1      121.8      139.9      169.2      526.1        10%        52.6
Building Maintenance                                      -       16.8       23.3       37.0       77.1        10%         7.7
Surgical Pack Maintenance                      -        0.0        0.3        0.9        1.8         3.1        5%         0.2
Vehicie Maintenance                          0.2        3.2        4.7        4.7        4.7        17.4       10%         1.7
Equipment Maintenance                        4.8        5.4       26.2       56.1       96.6       189.1       10%        18.9
Furniture Maintenance                        0.7        1.4        2.4        4.2        5.6       14.3           -
Total Recurrent Costs                         123.8     287.6      444.7      536.2      659.8    2.052.2         4%        81.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                          1,401.1    2.680.6    3.337.2    2.911.6    2,165.1   12,495.6       23%      2,823.5
Physical Contingencies                     133.3      253.2      315.3      272.3      196.0    1,170.1       24%        279.6
Price Contingencies                         52.7      361.2      774.4      940.0      897.5    3,025.7       23%        684.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1,587.1    3,295.0    4,426.9    4.123.9    3,258.5   16.691.4       23%      3.788.0
Taxes                                       84.4      179.9      235.5      215.3       173.1      888.1 
Foreign Exchange                           350.6      797.2      994.4      880.5      765.2    3.788.0



172                                            Annex 15
Page 4 of 24
Table 4 Karnataka: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Costs in Rs. NMilions
Foreign
Base Cost in Indian FY                                 Exchange
96/97      97/98      98/99    99/2000    2000/01      Total       *       Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                    90.6       62.9       57.9       40.2          -      251.6       15%         37.7
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)      286.3      267.2      229.0      171.8          -      954.4       15%        143.2
Profcssional Services                       35.4       29.9       26.5       18.8          -      110.6       20%         22.1
Furniture                                    3.1       34.3       28.1       20.8       17.7       104.1      10%         10.4
Major Medical Equipment                        -      111.0       84.9       75.1       55.5      326.5       60%        195.9
Minor Medical Equipment                                   -          -                -                          -           -
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs                                                    -          -               -           -
Equipment (Other)                           32.8      108.1       72.1       65.5       49.2      327.7       20%         65.5
Vehicles                                     9.1       72.7       27.2       22.7       19.7       151.4      75%        113.5
Medical Lab Supplies                         5.0       13.7       21.2       33.7       51.2      124.8       20%         25.0
Medicines                                   12.5       46.0       75.3      121.3      163.1      418.2       50%        209.1
Other Supplies                               5.8       17.4       24.4       33.7       34.8      116.1          -
MIS/IEC Materials                            8.7        9.7        8.1        5.5        0.3       32.3       25%          8.1
Local Training                               2.0       25.0       25.0       24.0       24.0      100.1
Studies                                      3.5        4.1        4.1        3.9        3.9        19.5         -           -
Fellowships                                  2.6       10.2       10.2        2.6        2.4       28.0       90%         25.2
Workshops                                    2.1        5.1        5.6        5.6        3.0       21.5
Consultanus                                  2.9        2.8        2.8          -          -        8.4
NGO's                                        4.3        4.2        4.2          -                  12.7          -
Total Investment Costs                       506.7      824.4      706.6      645.2      424.7    3.107.6       28%        855.7
Recurrent Costs
Salarics of Additional Staff                 5.7       86.2      126.4      160.9      195.3      574.6
OperaEional Expenses                         3.0       30.2       66.4       90.5      111.6      301.7       10%         30.2
Building .Maintenance                          -          -       16.1       18.9       22.4       57.4       10%          5.7
Surgical Pack Mainuenancc                                                                  -
Vehicle Maintenance                                                  -          -          -
Equipment Maintenance                          -        0.6       11.3       19.6       28.0       59.5       10%          5.9
Furniure Maintenance                                                                                  -          -
Total Recurrent Costs                          8.8      116.9      220.2      290.0      357.3      993.2        4%         41.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                           515.5      941.3      926.7      935.2      782.1    4.100.7       22%        897.5
Physical Contingencies                      50.6       87.5       84.0       83.9       67.0      372.8       24%         S8.5
Price Contingencies                         20.6      126.3      214.3      300.9      322.4      984.5       22%        219.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                            586.6    1.155.1    1.225.0    1.319.9    1.171.4    5.458.0       22%       1.205.6
Taxes                                       30.2       63.0       62.1       67.3       58.8      281.3
Foreign Exchangc                            99.1      294.6      264.7      283.1      264.1    1.205.6



173                                             Annex 15
Page 5 of 24
Table 5 Punjab: Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
Costs in Rs. Nillions
Foreign
Base Cost in Indian FY                                 Exchange
9h/97      97/98      98/99    99/2000    2000/01      Total       %       Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                    31.3       46.9       31.3       31.3       15.6       156.4      15%         23.5
Civil Works (New Constror Extension)       115.6      346.8      346.8      231.2      115.6    1.156.0       15%        173.4
Professional Services                       14 4       39.4       38.1       26.2       13.1      131.2       20%         26.2
Furniture                                    9 1       13.0       18.3       12.4       12.4       65.2       10%          6.5
Major Medical Equipment                     35.8       75.5      123.2       87.4       75.5      397.5       60%        238.5
Minor Medical Equipmnent                     1.8        3.5        5.3        3.5        3.5       17.5       20%          3.5
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs           2.3        4.6        6.9        4.6        4.6       23.2       20%          4.6
Equipment (Other)                           18.9       33.1       45.7       29.9       29.9      157.5       20%         31.5
Vehicles                                    47.6       37.4          -                             84.9       75%         63.7
Medical LabSupplies                          1.0        1.5        2.0        2.5        4.0       11.0       20%          2.2
Medicines                                   18.4       28.6       36.7       46.9       73.4      204.0       50%        102.0
Other Supplies                               2.5        6.0       11.5       14.5       15.5       50.0          -           -
MIS/IEC Materials                           13.4       53.5       29.0       12.3        3.3      111.4       25%         27.9
Local Training                              12.4       10.7       10.7       13.0       12.4       59.2
Studies                                     10.3        7.5        5.3        5.3        2.8       31.2
Fellowships                                  5.0        5.0        5.5        2.7        2.7       21.0       90%         18.9
Workshops                                    2 8        1.9        1.5        1.5        1.5        9.1
Consultants                                  0.2        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.2        1.6
NGO's                                        0 3        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.3        2.4
Total Investment Costs                       343.1      715.9      718.5      526.3      386.5    2.690.3       27%        722.4
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                54.1       60.9       71.1       74.5       77.8      338.4
Operational Expenses                         9.8       12.3       15.6       18.0       26.2       82.0       10%          8.2
Building Maintenance                           -          -        0.7        2.9       10.9       14.5       10%          1.4
Surgical Pack Maintenance                      -        0.0        0.1        0.2        0.4        0.7        5%          0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                          0.2        3.0        4.4        4.4        4.4       16.4       10%          1.6
Equipment Maintenance                        4.8        4.8        5.9        9.5       14.7       39.7       10%          4.0
Furniture Maintenance                        0.7        0.9        0.9        1.1        1.5        5.0
Total Recurrent Costs                         69.6       81.8       98.7       110.7      135.9     496.6         3%        15.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                           412.7      797.7      817.2      637.0      522.4    3.186.9       23%        737.7
Physical Contingencies                      37.5       75.8       77.2       59.1       47.5      297.1       25%         72.8
Price Contingencies                         14.9      107.8      189.6      205.6      216.8      734.7       23%        168.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            465.1      981.3    1.084.1      901.7      786.7    4.218.8       23%        979.2
Taxcs                                       23.9       52.0       56.0       45.2       40.4      217.3
Foreign Exchange                           117.7      224.4      246.1      199.8      191.1      979.2



174                                            Annex 15
Page 6 of 24
Table 6 West Bengal: Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
Costs in Rs. Millions
Foreign
Base Cost in Indian FY                                 Exchange
%197      97/98       98/99    99/2000    2000101      Total       %       Amount
Investmnent Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                    64.6      138.4      323.0      304.5       92.3      922.8        15%       138.4
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)       88.8      188.7      388.5      344.1       99.9    1,110.0        15%       166.5
Professional Services                       18.1       33.3       68.4       63.9       19.6      203.3       20%         40.7
Furniture                                   16.9       33.8       52.4       33.8       32.1      169.2       10%         16.9
Major Medical Equipmcnt                     68.3      136.6      204.8      136.6      136.6      682.8       60%        409.7
Minor Medical Equipment                      3.7        7.3       11.0        7.3        7.3       36.7       20%          7.3
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs           7.8       15.6       23.4       15.6       15.6       78.1       20%         15.6
Equipment (Other)                           51.6       93.7      140.6       93.7       89.1      468.7       20%         93.7
Vehicles                                    34.6       38.6       54.9       38.6       36.6      203.4       75%        152.6
Medical Lab Supplies                         2.4        4.8        7.2        4.8        4.8       24.1       20%          4.8
Medicines                                   18.1       36.2       54.2       36.2       36.2      180.8       50%         90.4
Other Supplies                              38.4       57.6       96.1       96.1       96.1      384.3          -
MISIIEC Materials                            2.6       43.9        7.8        5.2        5.2       64.6       25%         16.2
Local Training                               6.1       12.9       18.4       12.2       11.6       61.2          -           -
Studies                                      1.6        3.2        4.8        3.2        3.2       16.0          -
Fellowships                                  1.3        2.6        3.8        2.6        2.6       12.8       90%         11.5
Workshops                                    2.1        4.2        6.3        4.2        4.2       20.9
Consultants                                  0.2        0.5        0.7        0.5        0.5        2.4
NGO's                                        0.4        0.7        1.1        0.7        0.7        3.6          -           -
Total Investment Costs                       427.4      852.7    1467.4    1,203.9       694.1    4.645.5       25%       1.164.3
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                31.2       62.4       74.9       71.8       71.8      312.2
Operational Expenses                        14.2       2.5.6      39.9       31.3       31.3      142.5       10%         14.2
Building Maintenance                                                          i -  -  1.5  3.8      5.3       10%          0.5
Surgical Pack Maintenance                      -                   0.2        0.7        1.4        2.3        5%          0.1
Vehicle Maintenance                            -        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        1.0       10%          0.1
Equipment Maintenance                          -          -        9.0       27.0       54.0       89.9       10%          9.0
Furniture Maintenance                          -        0.6        1.6        3.1        4.1        9.3          -
Total Recurrent Costs                         45.5       88.9      125.9      135.6      166.6      562.4        4%         24.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                           472.9      941.6    1,593.3    1.339.5      860.7    5.208.0       23%       1.188.3
Physical Contingencies                      45.2       90.0      154.1      129.3       81.5      500.1       24%        118.3
Price Contingencies                         17.2      127.0      370.4      433.5      358.3    1.306.5       23%        296.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                            535.4    1.158.7    2.117.8    1.902.3    1.300.5    7.014.6       23%       1,603.2
Taxe                                        30.4       65.0      117.4      102.8       73.9      389.5
Foreign Exchangc                           133.8      278.2      483.6      397.6      310.1    1.603.2



175                                             Annex 15
Page 7 of 24
Table 7: Expenditure A_counts by Years -- Base Costs
Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Costs in US$ Millions
Foreign
Base Cost in Indian FY                  Exchange
6/97       97198      98/99    99/2000    2000/01       Total       %       Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                      5.4        7.1        11.8       10.8        3.1       38.2        15%         5.7
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)        14 1       23.1       27.7        21.5        6.2       92.5        15%        13.9
Professional Services                         2 0        2.9        3.8         3.1        0.9       12.8       20%          2.6
Furniture                                     0.8        2.3        2.8         1.9        1.8        9.7       10%          1.0
Major Medical Equipment                       3.0        9.3        11.9        8.6        7.7       40.4       60%         24.3
Minor Medical Equipment                       0.2        0.3        0.5         0.3        0.3        1.6       20%          0.3
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs            0.3        0.6        0.9         0.6        0.6        2.9       20%          0.6
Equipment (Other)                             3 0        6.8         7.4        5.4        4.8       27.4       20%          5.5
Vehicles                                      2 6        4.3         2.4        1.8        1.6       12.6       75%          9.5
Medical Lab Supplies                          0 2        0.6        0.9         1.2        1.7        4.6       20%          0.9
Medicines                                     1 4        3.2        4.8         5.9        7.8       23.1       50%         11.5
Other Supplies                                1.3        2.3         3.8        4.1        4.2       15.8           -          -
MIS/IEC Materials                             0.7        3.1         1.3        0.7        0.3        6.0       25%          1.5
Local Training                                0 6        1.4         1.6        1.4        1.4        6.3 3
Studias                                       04         0.4         0.4        0.4        0.3         1.9
Fellowships                                   0.3        0.5        0.6         0.2        0.2        1.8       90%          1.6
Workshops                                     0.2        0.3        0.4         0.3        0.2        1.5           -          -
Consultants                                   0 1        0.1        0.1         0.0        0.0        0.4
NGOs                                          0 1        0.2        0.2         0.0        0.0        0.5
Total Investment Costs                         36.7       68.8        83.1       68.3       43.3      300.1       26%         78.8
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                  2.6        6.0        7.8         8.8        9.9       35.2           -          -
Operational Espenses                          0 8        2.0        3.5         4.0        4.9       15.1       10%          1.5
Building Maintenance                            -          -        0.5         0.7        1.1        2.2       10%          0.2
Surgical Pack Maintenance                               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.1        0.1        5%          0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                           0.0        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.5       10%          0.0
Equipment Maintenance                         0.1        0.2        0.8         1.6        2.8        5.4       10%          0.5
Furniwre Maintenance                          0.0        0.0        0.1         0.1        0.2        0.4          -           -
Total Recurrent Costs                           3.6        8.3        12.8       15.4        19.0      59.0         4%         2.3
Total BASEL[NE COSTS                             40.3        77.0       95.9       83.7       62.2       359.1       23%         81.1
Physical Contingencies                        3.8        7.3        9.1         7.8        5.6       33.6       24%          8.0
Price Contingencies                           1.5        3.8        6.3         6.7        5.7       24.0       23%          5.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                              45.6       88.1       111.2       98.2       73.6      416.7        23%        94.6
Taxes                                         2.4        4.8        5.9         5.1        3.9       22.2                      -
Foreign Exchange                             10.1       21.3       25.0        21.0       17.3       94.6



176                                                Annex 15
Page 8 of 24
Table 8 Karnataka: Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
Costs in US$ Millions
Foreign
Base Cost in Indian FY                                 Exchnge
96/97     971/98      98/99      99/00    2000/01      Total       %       Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                     2.6        1.8        1.7        1.2          -        7.2        15%         1.1
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)        8.2        7.7        6.6        4.9          -       27.4        15%         4.1
Professional Services                        1.0        0.9        0.8        0.5                   3.2       20%          0.6
Fumiture                                     0.1        1.0        0.8        0.6        0.5        3.0       10%          0.3
Major Medical Equipment                        *        3.2        2.4        2.2        1.6        9.4       60%          5.6
Minor Medical Equipment                        - m                              -          -          -           -
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs             *                -    -          -          -                     -           -
Equipment (Othcr)                            0.9        3.1        2.1        1.9        1.4        9.4       20%          1.9
Vehicles                                     0.3        2.1        0.8        0.7        0.6        4.3       75%          3.3
Medical Lab Supplies                         0.1        0.4        0.6        1.0        1.5        3.6       20%          0.7
Medicines                                    0.4        1.3        2.2        3.5        4.7       12.0       50%          6.0
Othcr Supplies                               0.2        0.5        0.7        1.0        1.0        3.3          -
MISI1EC Materials                            0.3        0.3        0.2        0.2        0.0        0.9       25%          0.2
Local Training                               0.1        0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7        2.9          -           -
Studies                                      0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.6          -
Fellowships                                  0.1        0.3        0.3        0.1        0.1        0.8       90%          0.7
Workshops                                    0.1        0.1        0.2        0.2        0.1        0.6          -
Consultants                                  0.1        0.1        0.1                     -        0.2
NGO's                                        0.1        0.1        0.1          -          .        0.4          -
Total Investment Costs                        14.6       23.7       20.3        18.5       12.2       89.3       28%        24.6
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                 0.2        2.5        3.6        4.6        5.6       16.5          -           -
Operational Expenses                         0.1        0.9        1.9        2.6        3.2        8.7       10%          0.9
Building Maintenance                           *          -        0.5        0.5        0.6        1.6       10%          0.2
Surgical Pack Maintenance                                                      -          -                     -           -
Vehicle Maintenance
Equipment Maintenance                                   0.0        0.3        0.6        0.8        1.7       10%          0.2
Fumiture Maintenance                                                                       -
Total Recurrent Costs                          0.3        3.4        6.3        8.3        10.3       28.5        4%         1.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                             14.8      27.0       26.6       26.9       22.5       117.8      22%         25.8
Physical Contingencies                       1.5        2.5        2.4        2.4        1.9       10.7       24%          2.5
Price Contingencies                          0.6        1.3        1.7        2.1        2.0        7.8       22%          1.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                             16.9       30.9       30.8       31.4       26.4       136.4       22%        30.1
Taxes                                        0.9        1.7        1.6        1.6        1.3        7.0          -
Foreign Exchange                             2.8        7.9        6.7        6.7        6.0       30.1



177                                             Annex 15
Page 9 of 24
Table 9 Punjab: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Costs in US$ Millions
Foreip
Base Cost in Indian FY                                Exhage
96/97     97/98      9U99       99/00    2000101      Total       %       A_t
Investment Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                    0.9        1.3        0.9        0.9        0.4        4.5      15%          0.7
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)       3.3       10.0       10.0        6.6        3.3      33.2       15%          5.0
Professional Services                       0.4        1.1        1.1        0.8        0.4        3.8      20%          0.3
Fumiture                                    0.3        0.4        0.5        0.4        0.4        1.9      10%          0.2
Major Medical Equipment                     1.0        2.2        3.5        2.5        2.2       11.4      60%          6.9
Minor Medical Equipment                     0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1       0.5       20%          0.1
Medical Equipment- Surgical Packs           0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1       0.7       20%          0.1
Equipment (Other)                           0.5        1.0        1.3        0.9        0.9       4.5       20%          0.9
Vehicles                                    1.4        1.1                     -         -        2.4       75%          1.8
Medical Lab Supplies                        0.0        0.0        0.1        0.1        0.t       0.3       20%          0.1
Medicines                                   0.5        0.8        1.1        1.3        2.1       5.9       50%          2.9
OtherSupplics                               0.1        0.2        0.3        0.4        0.4        1.4
MIS/IEC Materials                           0.4        1.5        0.8        0.4       0.1        3.2       25%         0.3
Local Training                              0.4        0.3        0.3        0.4       0.4        1.7          -
Studies                                     0.3        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.1        0.9          -
Fellowships                                 0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1       0.1        0.6       90%         0.5
Workshops                                   0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.3          -
Consultants                                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
NGO's                                       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.1          --
Total Investment Costs                        9.9       20.6       20.6       15.1       11.1       77.3      27%         20.8
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                1.6        1.8        2.0        2.1        2.2       9.7          -
Operational Expense                         0.3        0.4        0.4        0.5        0.8       2.4       10%          0.2
Building Maintenance                          -          -        0.0        0.1       0.3        0.4       10%         0.0
Surgical Pack Maintenance                     -        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        5%          0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                         0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.5       10%         0.0
Equipment Maintenance                       0.1        0.1        0.2        0.3        0.4       1.1       10%         0.1
Furniture Maintenance                       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.1
Total Recurrent Costs                         2.0        2.4        2.8        3.2        3.9       14.3       3%          0.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                           11.9       22.9       23.5       18.3       15.0      91.6       23%         21.2
Physical Contingencis                       1.1        2.2        2.2        1.7        1.4       8.5       25%          2.1
PriceContingencies                          0.4        1.1        1.5        1.5        1.4       5.9       23%          1.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                             13.4      26.2       27.2       21.5       17.8      106.1      23%         24.6
Taxes                                       0.7        1.4        1.4        1.1       0.9        5.5
Foreign Exchange                            3.4        6.0        6.2        4.8       4.3       24.6



-    178                                         Annex 15
Page 10 of 24
Table 10 West Bengal: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Costs in US$ Millions
Foreign
Base Cost In Indian FY                                Fhange
96197     97/98       9U99       99/00    2000/01      Total       %       AnNut
Investment Coats
Civil Works (Renovation)                     1.9        4.0        9.3        8.8        2.7       26.5        15%         4.0
Civil Works (New Constr or Extension)        '.6        5.4       11.2        9.9        2.9       31.9        15%         4.8
Professional Services                        0.5        1.0        2.0        1.8        0.6        5.8       20%          1.2
Furniture                                    0.5        1.0        1.5        1.0        0.9        4.9        10%         0.5
Major Medical Equipment                      2.0        3.9        5.9        3.9        3.9       19.6       60%         11.8
Minor Medical Equipment                      0.1        0.2        0.3        0.2        0.2        1.1       20%          0.2
Medical Equipment - Surgical Packs           0.2        0.4        0.7        0.4        0.4        2.2       20%          0.4
Equipment (Other)                            1.5        2.7        4.0        2.7        2.6       13.5       20%          2.7
Vchicles                                     1.0        1.1        1.6        1.1        1.1        5.8       75%          4.4
Medical Lab Supplies                         0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1        0.7       20%          0.1
Mcdicines                                    0.5        1.0        1.6        1.0        1.0        5.2       50%          2.6
Other Supplies                               1.1        1.7        2.8        2.8        2.8       11.0          -
MISIIEC Materials                            0.1        1.3        0.2        0.1        04|        1.9       25%          0.5
Local Training                               0.2        0.4        0.5        0.4        0.3        1.          -           -
Studies                                      0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.5           -
Fellowships                                  0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.4       90%          0.3
Workshops                                    0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1        0.6          -
Consultants                                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1
NGO's                                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1          -
Total Investment Costs                        12.3       24.5       42.2       34.6        19.9      133.5      25%         33.5
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                 0.9        1.8        2.2        2.1        2.1        9.0
Operational Expenses                         0.4        0.7        1.1        0.9        0.9        4.1       10%          0.4
Building Maintenance                                      -                   0.0        0.1        0.2       10%          0.0
Surgical Pack Maintenance                                 -        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1        5%          0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       10%          0.0
Equipment Maintenance                               -              0.3        0.8        1.6        2.6       10%          0.3
Furniture Maintenance                          -        0.0        0.0        0.1        0.1        0.3
Total Recurrent Costs                          1.3        2.6        3.6        3.9        4.8        16.2       4%          0.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                            13.6       27.1       45.8       38.5       24.7       149.7      23%         34.1
Physical Contingencies                       1.3        2.6        4.4        3.7        2.3       14.4       24%          3.4
Price Contingencies                          0.5        1.3        3.0        3.1        2.3       10.2       23%          2.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                             15.4       31.0       53.2       45.3       29.4       174.2       23%        39.9
Taxes                                        0.9        1.7        3.0        2.4        1.7        9.7
Foreign Exchange                             3.8        7.4       12.1        9.5        7.0       39.9



179                                            Annex 15
Page 11 of 24
Table 11 Project Totals: Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Total Cost in US$ Millions
Seal. Sbus          DA                 Total           For.  (Ead. Dodo &
A_uat      %    A _ount   %         A~mAm       %       E* c.  Taxes    Taxe
Civil Works                                  22.8   15%      129.4   85%         152.2   37%       22.8  121.1       8.4
Consultants. Studies. Prof Services. NGOs     1.8   10%       16.3   90%          18.1    4%        3.0   15.1
Furniture                                     1.1   10%       10.2   90%          11.4    3%         1.1    9.4      0.8
Vehicles                                      1.5   10%       13.1   90%          14.6    4%        10.9    2.2      1.5
Equipment                                     8.4   10%       76.0   90%          84.5   20%       35.8   42.7       5.9
Medicines. Lab and Other Supplies             5.1   10%       46.0   90%          51.1   12%       14.7   33.1       3.2
MIS/IEC Materials                             0.7   10%        6.2   90%           6.9    2%         1.7    4.7      0.5
Training & Workshops                          0.0             10.7  100%          10.7    3%         1.8    8.9
Salaries                                     13.8   35%       25.5   65%  la    39.3    9%                 39.3        -
Operational Expenditures                      6.7   38%       11.1   62%  /a    17.8    4%           1.8   14.8      1.2
Building & Furniture Maintenance              1.4   46%        1.7   54%  /a       3.1    1%        0.3    2.6       0.2
Equipment & Vehicle Maintenance               3.2   46%        3.8   54%  /a       7.0       2%     0.7    5.8       0.5
Total                                           66.7   16%       350.0)  84%       (416.7) 100%        94.6  299.9   (22.2)
__ __   __         _      __           M       /__       _         //
Calculation of IDA Share        =          350.0          =    88.7%
(Net of Tax and Duties)               416.7 - 22.2                   |
NOTES:
/a  Disbursements on Recurrent Costs are on a declining basis: Years 1-2 at 90%. Year 3 at 75%. Year 4 at 60%. Year 5 at 40%



180                                             Annex 15
Page 12 of 24
Table 12 Karnataka: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Total Cost in US$ Million
Gort of Karta1         IDA                Total           For.  (Ewl. Duties &
Ammau       %    Amount *.           Amount  *           Exch.  Taxes)    Taxes
Civil Works                                   6.0   15%        34.1   85%          40.1   29%         5.9    31.9      2.2
Consultants. Studies, Prof Services. NGOs     0.5   10%         4.5   90%           5.0    4%         0.7     4.3        -
Furniture                                     0.3   10%         3.1   90%           3.5    3%         0.3     2.9      0.2
Vehicles                                      0.5   10%         4.5   90%           5.0    4%         3.8     0.8      0.5
Equipment                                     2.2   10%        19.7   90%          21.9   16%         8.8    11.6      1.5
Medicines, Lab and Other Supplies             2.2   10%        20.1   90%          22.3   16%         8.0    12.9      1.5
MIS/IEC Materials                             0.1   10%         1.0   90%           1.1     I %       0.3     0.7      0.1
Training & Workshops                          0.0               4.8  100%           4.8    4%         0.8     4.0        -
Salaries                                      7.2   39%        11.3   61%  /a    18.5   14%             -    18.5        -
Operational Expenditures                      4.2   41%         6.0   59%  /a    10.2    8%           1.0    8.5       0.7
Building & Furniture Maintenance              0.8   44%         1.1   56%  /a       1.9    19%        0.2     1.6      0.1
Equipment& Vehicle Maintenance                0.9   46%         1.1   54%  /a       2.0    2%        0.2      1.7      0.1
Total                                            25.0  .18%       111.3   82%         136.4  100%       30.1    99.3      7.0
NOTES:
/a  Disbursements on Recurrent Costs are on a declining basis: Years 1-2 at 90%. Year 3 at 75%. Year 4 at 60%. Year 5 at 40%



181                                           Annex 15
Page 13 of 24
Table 13 Punjab: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Total Cost in US$ Million
Govt of Punjab       IDA               Tota            For.  MEzd. Dada &
Amount     %    Amount   %         AAmowt       %      Exch.  Taxst    Taxs
Civil Works                                  6.6   15%       37.3   85%         43.9   41%         6.6   34.9      2.4
Consultants. Studies. Prof Services. NGOs    0.6   10%        5.0   90%          5.6    5%        0.9    4.7         -
Furniture                                    0.2   10%        2.0   90%          2.2    2%        0.2    1.8       0.2
Vehicles                                     0.3   10%        2.5   90%          2.7    3%        2.1    0.4       0.3
Equipment                                    2.0   10%       18.0   90%         20.0   19%        9.4    9.3       1.4
Medicines, Lab and Other Supplies            0.9   10%        8.1   90%          9.0    8%         3.5    4.8      0.6
MISJIEC Materials                            0.4   10%        3.3   90%          3.7    4%        0.9    2.5       0.3
Training & Workshops                         0.0       -      2.8  100%          2.8    3%        0.6    2.2         -
Salaries                                     3.4   32%        7.4   69%  la    10.8   10%            -   10.8
Operational Expenditures                     1.0   36%        1.8   64%  /a      2.8    3%        0.3    2.3       0.2
Building & Furniture Maintenance             0.3   49%        0.3   51%  la      0.7    1%        0.1    0.6       0.0
Equipment & Vehicle Maintenance              0.7   38%        1.2   63%  /a      1.9    2%        0.2    1.6       0.1
Total                                           16.3   15%      89.7   85%         106.1  100%       24.6   76.0       5.5
iNOES:
/a  Disbursements on Recurrent Costs arc on a declining basis: Years 1-2 at 90%, Year 3 at 75%. Year 4 at 60%. Year 5 at 40%



182                                          Annex 15
Page 14 of 24
Table 14 West Bengal: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Total Cost in US$ Million
Govt of WI.         /DA                ToWa            For.  (ExeL  Dud. &
Asmot      %    Amount   %          Aue         *       Exch.  TaLmS    Taim
Civil Works                                  10.2   15%       58.0   85%          68.2   39%       10.2   54.2       3.8
Consultants. Studies. Prof Services. NGOs     0.8   10%        6.8   90%           7.6    4%         1.4    6.2        -
Furniture                                     0.6   10%        5.1   90%           5.7    3%        0.6    4.7       0.4
Vehicles                                      0.7   10%        6.1   90%           6.8    4%        5.1     1.0      0.7
Equipment                                     4.3   10%       38.3   90%          42.5   24%       17.7   21.8       3.0
Medicines. Lab and Other Supplies             2.0   10%       17.8   90%          19.8   11%        3.2   15.5       1.1
MIS/IEC Materials                             0.2   10%        1.9   90%           2.1    1%        0.5     1.5      0.2
Training & Workshops                          0.0       -      3.0  100%           3.0    2%        0.4    2.7         -
Salaries                                      3.2   32%        6.8   68%  Ia    10.0    6%            -   10.0
Operational Expenditures                      1.6   32%        3.3   68%  /a       4.9    3%        0.5    4.0       0.3
Building & Furniture Maintenance              0.2   48%        0.3   52%  Ia       0.5    0%        0.0    0.4       0.0
Equipment & Vehicle Maintenance               1.6   50%        1.5   50%  /a       3.1    2%        0.3    2.6       0.2
Total                                           25.3   15%       149.0   86%         174.2  100%       39.9  124.7       9.7
NOTES:
/a  Disbursements on Recurrent Costs are on a declining basis: Ycars 1-2 at 90%. Year 3 at 75%. Year 4 at 60%. Year 5 at 40%



183                                                      Annex 15
Page 15 of 24
Table 15 Project Totals: Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in USS Millions
MOu_ ONe it, 4, tsfkzin.             tupr.o St 4  Qqaay. Alw  ,.       t                       ftwA1
miniw                              Ser"Ice
Inprow    Strengtn                Caman_y.
Instiutial Mmag twm A   Devenp       Are &      UVppade    Impnwe
Frniwrt  lDmi Surwll                   rict     Cliickl    Refml
ffr Pnlicy    C        O1iy  Cw pis   Horpiusi  Effictiveeas  Srmem                TOTAL    S    AMEN
ln-Gomm Cum
Civil Works (Reivation)-                                          0.0         35.3           *                      2.9     33.2   10%    3.8
Civil Worb(NewConiror Exension)              -          3.0                   85.5         0.9          -           3.1     92.5   10%    9.3
Profesio   Scrvca                                      0.2        0.0         I1.8        0.1                      0.6      12.8   I0%    1.3
Furniture                                  0.0         0.3        0.1                      9.0         .           0.2       9.7   10%    1.0
Major Medica Equipmente--                                           -            -        40.0                      0.4     40.4   10%    4.0
Minor Medid Equp mnt                         -            -         .                      1.5         .           0.1       1.6   10%    0.2
Medicl Equipment. Surgical Packs                          -                      -         2.9                     0.1       2.9   10%    0.3
Equipmem (Olher)                           0.1          4 4       0.5          1.9        20.1         .           0.4      27.4   10%    2.7
Vehicles                                   0.1          I 5       0.3            -        0.3       10.1           0.4      12.6   10%    1.3
Medial Lab Suppli.s                                                                        1.6                     3.0       4.6   10%    0.5
Medicies.                                                 .         .                     15.2         .           7.9      23.1   10%    2.3
Other Supples                              0.0         0.1        0.0                     14.6       0.5           0.6      15.8   10%    1.6
MISilEC Mageruls                           0 0          0 3       0.1            ,         4.0       0.9            0.7      6.0   10%    0.6
Loa  Training                              0.1          0.4       0.1                      5.5       0.1           0.2       6.3    5%    0.3
Siudin                                     0.5          0 6       0.0                      O.8          -           0.0      1.9   10%    0.2
Felhr.ships                                0.4          0 1       0.0                      1.2       0.1              -      2.8    5S    0.1
Worklshps                                  0 2          0.3         -                      0.6       0.3           0.0       1.5    5%    0.1
Coesultwts                                 0 1          0 2                                0.0       0.0           0.0       0.4    5%    0.0
NGO's                                      0.1         0 3          .            .        0.1        0.0           0.1       0.5    5%    0.0
Teal untY aI Cost                             I 6         11.7       1.2        134.6       11.4      11.9          20.8    300.1   10%   29.5
Rttei Cogs
SalarusofAddidionalStaff                   0.5          7.0       0.8            ,        26.4         -           0.6      35.2    5S    1.8
Operaiol Espenset                          0.1          3 2       0.1          2.0         5.4        1.6           2.8     15.1   20%    1.5
Building Maintenance                                   00           -          2.2           -                     0.0       2.2   10%    0.2
SurgiaI Pack Mainteniste                     .            .                                0.1         .           0.0       0.1   tO%    0.0
Vehicle Mainenarc                          0.0          0.0       0.1                                0.4           0.0       0.5   10%    0.0
Equipinem Matmeiw                          0.0         0 4        0.0                      4.9         .           0.1       5.4   10%    0.5
Furniture Maaiuen                          0.0         0.0        0.0            .         0.4                     0.0       0.4   10%    0.0
ToolRcurrte.Cc                                0.6        10.5        1.0          4.1       37.1        2.0           3.5      59.0    7%    4.1
TOMIBASELM, COSTS                              2.1         22.2       2.3         138.7      155.6       13.9          24.3    359.1    9S   33.6
Payscl Comingelies                         0.1          1.8       0.2         13.9        13.9       1.4           2.4      33.6    0%
Pree Coaingenc.s                           0.1          1 5       0.1          8.9        10.7       0.8            1.8     24.0    9%    2.1
Tol PROJIECTCOSTS                              2.4         25.5       2.6         161.5      280.2       16.0          2J.5    416.7    9%   35.7
Tam                                        0.0          1.1       0.1          8.2         9.5        1.4           1.8     22.2    9%    2.0
Foreign Etchae                             0.5         3.5        0.5         24.7       48.1        9.3            7.9     94.6    9%    8.5



184                                                          Annex 15
Page 16 of 24
Table 16 Karnataka: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in US$ Millions
r~~~~~~mL-                                   .       Ca 3
Mea_ntW  Devdksp ut & laiwd.1         Impr.ve Sert. Quiity, Ac   sd        Impr.ve
S,gthoo.9                           EeetlAi                                           b5ttd Cm_gsiU
I. Bawk Htkt
3*i>ve &                               5evc
Improve    St_ogben                 Ewod
Inmsawofil MAroement A   Doelp      C.mWOsy.    uppad        ImproV
FI.wov   Imph1eonuam   Sui ttvidia    Am A Dirimr    Cli.i   Rekfrrol
Ar. P.i4v   CAIWp.y    C.Mity       Hm,p-ub    Effbciivemes.   Sysiem                   TOTAL    %      Asmo
Invogtmeu Cost
Civil Works (Renovatoon .)                                                     7.23            *                                7.23    10%       0.7
Civil Works (New Consicr or Exesion)                   0.S9                   25.62        0.91           *                    27.42    10%       2.7
Professionai Services                                  0.03                    3.06        0.09           -                     3.18    10%       0.3
Furnmiur                                  0 01         0.09      0.04                      2.86                          -      2.99    10%      0.3
Major Medald Equipment                                                                     9.38           -                     9.38    10%       0.9
Minor Medxia Equipment                                    -          -            .           -           -                              0%
Medfo Equipment * Surgical Packs                                     -            -                                                      0%
Equipnent lr0her)                         0 05         4 28      0.21          1.94        2.94           .                     9.42    10%      0.9
Vehicles                                  o.04         I 12      0.12                      0.25       2.81                      4.35    10%      0.4
Meadal Lab Supplies                                                                        0 60                       2.98      3.59    10%      0.4
tetdicin                                                                                     3 -   -   -   4.31  -    7.70     12.02    10%       1.2
Otler Supplies                                         0.01.                               3.01       0.05            0.26      3.33   1t%       0.3
MISIIEC Mateesals                            *            *          *            -        0.32       0.03            0.57      0.93    10%      0.1
Loca Training                                          0.23          *2.42                            0.06            0.17      2.S8     5%      0.1
Studies                                   0.36                                             0.20                          -      0.56   10%       0.1
Fellowship                                0.31            .                                0.43                          -      0.80     5%      0.0
Workshops                                 0.15                                             0.36       0.11                      0.62     5%      0.0
Contulttns                                0.07         0 17                                           0.0-                      0.24     5%       0.0
.JNGOOs                                   0 10         0.26                                           0.00                      0.36    5%        0.0
Totallorvefmset Cost                        1 16         707        0.37        37.S5       28.09        306           11.70     89.30    10%       8.7
Rccurrert Cod.                                                                                                                             0%
Salari of AdditiosAl Suti                 0.18         2.17      047              -       13.10           -           0.58     16.51     5%       0.8
OpentWi ExpenCes                          0.05         2.43      0.10          1.96        2.21                       1.92      8.67    10%       0.9
Bwildieg Mainrenuce                                                            1 .  .65       *           *                     1.65    10%       0.2
Surgia Pck Mair;enaice                       .            .          .            .            .          .              .               0%
Vehicle Mainreniue                                                                                                                       0%
Equiposent Mainsensce                     0.01         0.31                                1.38                                 1 - .71    10%   0.2
Furninure Mainreosrce                                    .            .                 .           .            .            .          0%
Total Recurn  Cam                           0 25         4.91      0.57          3.61       16.69                      .2.50     28.54     7%       2.0
ToalBASELLNECOSTS                             1.40        11.99      0.94         41.45       44.7S       3.06           14.20    117.U4    9%      10.7
Physica Contingeuews                      0.10         1.06      0.07          4.15        3.66       0.30            1.38     10.71     0%
PrsceComangencms                          0.09         0.80      006           2.43        3.15       0.18            1.12      7.84     8%      0.6
ToetaPROJECTCO6TS                             1.59        13.85      1.08         48.03       51.60       3.54          16.70    136.39      6%     11.4
Taxos                                     0.02         0.77      0.04          2.55        2.23       0.33            1.10      7.04     9%       0.6
Foreign Exchange                          0.43         2.47      0.17          7.22       11.66       2.45            5.69     30.08     9%      2.7



185                                                         Annex 15
Page 17 of 24
Table 17 Punjab: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in US$ Millions
C".m ineg                           CMwmL2-                    Cm
M _.aawa.q Dr..h~im.n  & A,wilr0tual.  Impeme Se.-km QalIty. As od         Impre
Sir.e qhnnlisn                       IToElmin                   Aem                 Physt C     ir5ft
Renanai &                              5ai
lIp,,mp    Smnngown                  ExUmn
rulm,-W  %4anagemm A   Dennhp       C-GIVaury.    Upgrade    Imen
F,ir,-k  InrimnuKn  Su,,.mnie4    Am h Dcrwef   Clunical     Re&nul
fir POh     C4WitV    C4*K-         HmPgasn   Efflinsqnenu    Syuu                      TOrAL    %       Anem
Investmeat Coats
Civil Works (Rermution)                      .                                 4.49                       .4.49    10%                            0.4
Civil Works (New Const or Extensen)                                  -        33 22            *                         -     33.22    10%       3.3
Profeuwonal Servies                          -                                 3.77                                              3.77    10%      0.4
Furniture                                  01         0 06       0.04            -         1.77                                 1.87    10%      0.2
Major Medical Equipmen                                               -            -        11.42          *                     11.42    10%      1.1
Minor Medical Equiprnent                                  .          .                      0.50                                0.50   10%        01
Moda Equipment- Surgl Pcks                                           -                     0.67                                 0.67    10%       0.1
Equipment (Other)                                      0 03          -            -         4 50                                4.52    10%       0.5
- Vehicles                                   0 01        0 03       0                -           .       2.18               -      2.44    10%      0.2
Modical Lab Supplies                                                                       0.32                                 0.32    10%       0.0
Medicines                                                                                   5.86          -              -      5.86    10%       0.6
Other Suppies                                                                               1.-44                                1.44    10%      0.1
MIS/IEC Materials                         0 01         0 23       0.03            -         2.34       0.57              -      3.20    10%       0.3
Lcal Training                                          0 05       0.02            -         1.62                         -       1.70    iS       0.1
Stuties                                   0 03         0 42       0.03            .         0.42                                0.90    10%       0.1
Fellowships                                               .       0.03                     0.57           *                     0.60     5%       0.0
Workshops                                              013                                 0.13                                 0.26     5%       0.0
Coraultuns                                    .           .          .             .        0.05          .              .      05 0         S    0.0
NGOi                                         .            .          .            .        0.07           .              .      0.07     5 %      0.0
Total Investment Coam                       00S          0 95       0.39        41 48        31.68       2.76              -     77.31    10%       7.6
Recurrent Casut                                .            .                        .           .                                    . -    0%
Salaris of Additional Staff               0 13         1 34       0 32*                     7 94          .              -      9.72     5%       0.5
Operational Ex.pemk                       0 01         0 58       0 04             -        1.61       0.11              -       2.36    10%      0.2
Building Mainenance                                       -          -         0.42            -          -             -       0.42    10%       0.0
SurgcaW Pack Maintenance                                   -         -             -        002           -              -      0.02    10%       0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                       0 01         0 01       0 06             -                   0.39              -      0.47    10%       0.0
Equipnent Maintenance                        *         004           -            -         1.10          -              -       I 14   10%       0.1
Furniture Maintenance:                                 000           -            -        0.14                          -      0.14    10%       0.0
Total Racurree Cosu                         014          1 98       0.43         042         10.81       0.50              -      14 27    7%       0.9
Ttai BASELINE COmT                            020          2.92      0.82         41.90       42.49        3.26              -     91.58     9%       8.5
Physia Contingencies                      0.01         0 22       0.06         4 19         3.73       0.33              -      854    0%
Prce Contingencis                         0 0l         0.19       0.04         2.69         2.90       0. 12             -      5.95     9%       0.5
Toal PROJECT COSTS                            0 2          332       0.92         48.78       49.11        3.71              *    106.07     9%      9.0
Taxes                                     0 00         0.08       0.04         2.45         2.56       0.33                      5 5.47  9%       0.5
Foreign Exchange                          0.01         0.1t      0.24          7.49        1466        2.06                    24.64     9%       2.2



186                                                         Annex 15
Page 18 of 24
Table 18 West Bengal: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in US$ Millions
M.m. De.uhpF  i A 1#011114a16111     l wpr  Sws OUy. Ae   m_   t          mpem
Siruuql_x tE                        fi.qm             .                           Pkt  C_m~mI
R_
1Iwpft    Sgthmcny h_t
2noiuaiiiw.  &I'Liij- -u  &   De.-iip  Cmmummg.    Uppals    layemn
Fiwsoe   I=u    Siw"dl Mu A Down    CIv C ,       Uw
riv Pr r..  Cwey       C4v          Hun_b~ tElrys    Spwa                             7TOAL    S      Am_
Lneregment Cosu
Civil Works (RenovAtion)                                 -       0.02        23.59           *                      2.91     26.52    10      2.7
Civil Works(NewConstrorExtension)                     2.14                   26.62                                  3.13     31.90    10%      3.2
Profeaniona Servicrn                                  0.21       0.00         5.02                                  0.60      5.84    10      0.6
Furniture                                 0.03        0.16       0.04            -        4.42                      0.12      4.86    201      0.5
Major Medrica Equipnm                                                                    1 .  9.24                  0.39     19.62   I0       2.0
Minor Medical Equipment                                  *                       -        1.00                     0.05       1.05    I0%      0.1
Metica Equipment . Surgic  Packs                         .                                2.19                     0.06       2.25    10      0.2
Equipmeu (Other)                          0.03        0.11       0.28                    12.62                      0.43     11.47    20      1.3
- Vehictes                                 0 05         0.312                                          5.06          0.41       5.t4   I0%       0.6
Medical tub Supplia                                                 -                     0.64                     0.06       0.69    I0%      0.1
Medictfts                                                *          -            -        4 99          *          0.20       5.19    20%      0.5
Oher Supplies                           001          0.09       0.03                    10.16       0.46           0.29     11.04   10%       1.1
MIS/AEC Materias                                      0.03      0.03                      2.33       0.29           0.13      2.86    I0%      0.2
LAsl Training                            0.06         0.12      0.05                      1.50                      0.03      1.76   56        0.2
Studtia                                  0.06         0 14                                0.23                      0.03      0.46    20%      0.0
Fellowships                              003          0.09                                0.16       0.09                     0.37    5%       0.0
Workshops                                0.06         0.22          -                     0.16       0.14           0.03      0.60    53       0.0
Conoulimns 00                                        0.02          -            -.                                 0.        0.07     5%      0.0
NGOs                                     000          002           -            -                                  0.07      0.10    5%       0.0
Total In,esmnent Costs                      036         3.67       0.47        55.23       53.68       6.04           905     133.49   20%      13.2
Recurrent Cots                                             *                .            .          .                         .         0%
Sa2arIse of Additiona Staf(               0.16        3 54                                5.36          ..                     .97     5%      0.4
Opetmorial Expereo                        0.02       0.14                                1.53       1521           0.39      4.09    IO%      0.4
Buldding Maiumenae                           *        002           -         0.t2                                  0.02      0.25    20%      0.0
Surtgi Pack Maimemece                        * a                                          0.07          -           0.00      0.07    20%      0.0
Vehicle Maiienwnce                                                                                                  0.03      0.03    20%      0.0
Equipment Mainuensnce                     0.00        0.0       0.04                     2.45                      0.03      2.53   tO%       0.3
Furniture Mamnenance                      0.00        0.01       0.00                     0.24          -           0.0       0.27    20%      0.0
Toal Rerret   Cods                          0.19        3.63       0.05         0.12        9.64       1.5t           1.03     t6.16    7%       1.2
Toal BASELLNE COSTS                          0.55         7.30      0.52         55.35       6S.32       7.55          20.0    149.65    tO%     14.4
Ptthpil Coningeceen                      0.04         0.53      0.05          5.51        6.47       0.74           2.00     14.37    0%
Price Continm encin                      0.04         0.4S       0.04         3.78        4.6S       0.50           0.69     10.20    9%       0.9
Total PROJECTCOSTS                           0.62         3.31      0.60         64.66       79.47       3.79          t1.77    174.23    9%      13.3
Taxe                                     0.02         0.22       0.04         3.24        4.75       0.76          0.66       9.68    9%       0.9
Foreign Exchce                           0.09         0.87      0.09         10.00       21.32       4.77          2.26      39.90    9%       3.6



187                                                       Annex 15
Page 19 of 24
Table 19 Project Totals: Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal
Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in Rs. Millions
~~~~~c_J                                              c_J-
Mtamen,ut D    _m &  lksut            I_m So.  Qiflty. Am mi               Iw1_
Sarniit_t.he                         Kffediw.in                   Ac                  Pviiyal Ctme.
to _lec H_lli
1menmi  Mmuanu A   Dewip            C       .    U
Fraww_t  Ipne.  Sue                Arm A DkUM    aL"         lapo"
hir Pev     Cvey        C           Heepims   Ehniu aekeni Syi                           TOTAL    S       A_e
Invegne.l Costs
Civil Works (Rerouaios)                       .                   0.5       I.OU8.75                                 101.10   1.330.70    10%    133.1
Civil Works (New Comif or Eziemioo)           *      105.50          *      2.974.08       31.52           *         10.90   3.220.30    10%    322.0
Professieuml Servct                                    3.55       0.09       412.29         3.18           *          21.00    445.11    10%      44.5
Furnitue                                  1 54        10.52       4.28                    314.74                       7.42    338.50    10%      33.9
Major Medical Equipmer                       *                                          1.393.34           *          13.43   1.406.77    10%    140.7
Minor Medical Equipment                      *            -          -            .        52.33                       1.S3     54.16    10%       5.4
Medicaj Equiprnent - Surgic  Packs                                                        99.2             -           2.07    101.29    10%      10.1
Equipment (Oher)                          .75        153.67      17.07        67.51      698.02                       14.21    953.83    10%      95.4
Vehicles                                  3.57        51.50      11.S0                      3.78     349.93           14.11    439.69    10%      44.0
Medical Lab Supple                                                                        54.12                      105.7S    159.90    10%      16.0
Medicines                                                                                527.86                      275.13    S02.99    10%      30.3
OtherSupplas                              050          3.30       1.02            -      508.54        17.76          19.1S    550.30    10%      55.0
MIS/IEC Maerals                           0 25         9.04       2.90            -       140.52       31.20          24.40    206.31    10%      20.S
Lcl Tining                                200         14.09       2.68                    192.72        2.00           7.00    =0.49      5%      11.0
Studies                                   1570        19.50       1.00            -        29.50                       1.00     66.70    10%       6.7
Fellowships                              14 00         3.13       1.00                    40.70         3.00                    61.83     5S       3.1
Workshops                                 720         12.00                                22.53        8.75           1.00     51.43     5%       2.6
Coesuiralss                                2.80        6.40                                 1.60        0.04           1.60      12.44    5%       0.6
NGO r                                     4 20         9.60                                 2.40       0.06            2.40      13.66    5%       0.9
Total 1ave.meut Cos                        34 51       406.80      42.69      4.62613  4*121.91         412.74         722.16  10."344    10%  1.026.1
RecYtrmt Ceou                                  .                                                                                            0%
Salari of Additionl Stff                 16.50       242.26       7.56            *      915.49                       20.34   1.22515     5%      61.3
Opuzonal Est                              2.37       109.71       .96         6 i1s       136.35       56.36          97.68    526.13    10%      52.6
BUiling Mainene                                        0.75          *        75.92                        .           0.47     77.14    10%       7.7
Surgcal Pack Maineeieo*                                                                     3.00                       0.06       3.06    10%      0.3
VehirleMaintenace                         0.lh         0.29       2.25            .            .       13.68           0.9      17.36    10%       1.7
Equipment Maine                           0.60        12.54       1.53                    171.59                       2.32    189.0S    10%      18.9
Furnwme Maintae                           0.08         0.50      0.13                      13.16                       0.40     14.27    lO%       1.4
Total Rteunvt Cam                          20.23       366.05      36.45       144.10     1.292.59      70.04          122.73   2.052.19    7%    144.0
TOtl BASELINE COSTS                          74.74       772.835    79.14      4.326.73    5.414.50      482.78         S44.39  12.495.63    9S  1.170.1
Phycl Comingetena                         5.14        62.91       6.35       482.67      432.53       47.59           82.37   1.170.06    0%
PrimContinpecie                          16.77       1S8.9S      13.53      1.062.23    1.399.3       93.39          240.91   3.025.75    9%    257.6
Total PRfJECT COSTS                          96.65     1,024.74     104.07     6.371.63    7.2f.91       628.76        1.168.67  16.691.44    9%   1.427.7
Tues                                      1.29        42.94       4.71       325.01       3S5.84       55.82          72.52    388.13     9%      80.7
Foreign Exchae                           20.64       139.97      19.37       975.09    1.943.55      361.12          32S.25   377.799     9%    341.4



188                                                     Annex 15
Page 20 of 24
Table 20 Karnataka: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in Rs. Millions
ca.-                                 cminLJ-
M _ansnaU 0.'eI pm- & Imukadnaa       liprme SE km QualMy. Adm NW         low
Srnn1tt.xMtxeffdj                                               AMr                 thyc Cmiart me
to Bowe Hasdh
t ~~~~~~~~n.s &  
2I-Pr-1    Siruagdwe Esn
Inumniamal M u nstno  &   Dewtop   C_niay.    U tg*k
Fmw...k  Iinrplmn    Swandl       Am a Dan=   ainwA         unPre.
foi Padicy    CAPcy     cimty       He,pkils   Efacwiema  kdenrrl Sy5n                 TOTAL    %
Invatmt Confta
Civil Works (Renovauion                                  -                  251.55           .           .                   251.55    10%     25.2
Civd Work(NewConswrorExienmon)               *       30.90          -       891.63       31.82                          *    954.35    I0%    9f.4
Profeuioal Seznriat                          -        1.09                  106.32        3.1S           *10.59    lo%                         "2.-
Furnirwe                                 0 34         3.06       1.30            -       99.3S                               104.08    10%     10.4
Major Medial Equipment                                                                  326.47                               326.47    10%     32.6
Mier Medic  Equipnm-                                                -*                                                                 0%
Medieal Equipmetit - Surgical Pack.          -           .                       -           .           *              -         -    0%
Equipment (Other)                         I.75      148.77      7.27         67.51      102.37                         *    327.67    10%      32.5
Vehicles                                  1 43       39.08      4.30                      8.78      97.78               *    151.37    10%     25.1
Medial d Lab Supplis                                                                     22100                     103.73    224.73    10%     12.5
Medicines                                                                               150.07                    268.13    418.20    lO%      41.8
OtherSupplies                                         0.30                              104.82        2.75          9.12    116.05    10%      11.6
MIS/[EC Maur,ai                                                                          11 10        1.20         20.00      32.30    20%      3.2
LscalTraining                                         3.00         -4.12                             2.00           6.00    100.12    5%        5.0
Sludaio                                  12.50           -          -.00                                                      1 9.50    10%    2.0
Fellowshups                              1300                        -           -        5.00           -                    28.010    5%      1.4
Workshops                                 3 20                                           1 .  22.50   3.75              *     21.45     5S      1.1
C*ottattnc                                2 40        6 00          -            *                   0.04                      3.44    5%       0.4
NGO B                                     3 60        9.00          *            *                   0.06                     1 22.66    5%     0.6
Total lnvestmen Caos                      40.22        46.20      12.87     1.317.01      977.61      106.53        407.09  3.107.58    10%    302.2
Recurrem  Coxs            .                    -           .          .            .                                                     0%
Salit s( Additionwal Suff                 6.30       75.58      26.4S                   455.85                     Z0.34    574.55      5%     28.7
OpemoraI Expecex                          2.87       84 52       3.48        68.IS       76.97           -          66.68    30t.70    '0%     30.2
Building Mainace                             -                .              57.41                 .            -             57.41    lO%      5.7
Surgicl Pack Maintennce                      .           .          .            .                                                     0%
Vehicle Mamnienane                           *           *          *            *                                                     0%
Equtpnicen Maimnaernce                   0.50         0.93 n       *                     48.06                          -     59.49    '0%      5.9
Fumnture Maiuenance                         -            -          -            ..                      .              .         -    0%
Tdol Recrrmt Cost                           3.67      171.03      19.96       125.59      580.38                     37.02    993.15     7%      70.6
TotalBASELD(E COM                           48.89       417.23     32.33      1.442.60    1.55849      106.53         494.11  4.100.73     9%    372.8
Physicl Contingenema                     3.36        36.79      2.46        144.26      127.48      10.37          48.09    372.81    0%
Price Contmgences                        10.64      104.32      8.70        259.09     425.39       22.63         153.20    954.47     S%      80.7
TOtalPROJEC  COSTS                          62.89       558.35     4399       2.45.95    2111.285      139.57         695.41  5.45J.01     S%    453.5
TAXe                                     0.62        30.38       1.71        98.28       90.94       13.04         45.97    281.33     9%      25.6
Foreign Exchange                         16.68       98.08      6.83        276.93     473.33       96.40         237.39  12205.63     9%    108.3



189                                                        Annex 15
Page 21 of 24
Table 21 Punjab: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in Rs. Millions
Cml t c"- _P 
Mt lW.t D"dqina" & l* I_It.ll          I_im  Sa. Q-rky. A,i, &W                 t
Saru,gth,iJu.u                       uhNr                          A .                  peftpnS Ca
to te l4Xk
Row   &                                 5geis
mnimrn"    Suendn                     Exl
lInunnl  SMtnq  &   Dnni*           C_qmsat.    Upgnk
FrnW.k  Inunin    Suritc   Ana A  f               CDis         t__v
tfw Pnl.    C4mis       Ca  Y        HNtp4jY    e     JI      I  S                         TOTAL    I      A
Invetmen.t Costs
Civil Works (Renovation)                       -                               156.40            -           -                    156.40    0O%      15.6
Civil Works (New Consiror Extention)                        -                1.156.00                                           1.156.00    I0%    115.6
Profesional Servces                            -*                     -        131.24            -           *               -    131.24    10%      13.1
Furniture                                  0 20         2.00       1.50             -       61.54                                  65.24    10%       6.S
Major Medical Equipment                        .                      .             .      397.48                            -    397.45    10%      39.7
Mimor Medical Equipment                        *                                             17.51           -                     17.51    0O%       1.S
Medical Equipment -Surgicml Packs                                     -                     23.16                                  23.16    10%       2.3
Equipment (Other)                                      090                                 156.55                                157.45    10%      15.7
Vehicles                                   0 25          1.17      7.50             -            -       76.00                     54.92    10%       5.5
Medical Lab Supplies                                                                         1 10 -  I2.0    -                     11.02    l0%       1.1
Medcines                                      -             *                              '040 Z0.    204.02    10%                                 20.4
Other Supplies                                 *            *                               5000-*                                 50.00    10%       5.0
MIS/IEC Materals                           0 25         8.04       1.70             -       51.42        20.000                   111.41    10%      11.1
1cl Training                                             I.50      0.55 a                   56.52                                  59.17     5%       3.0
Studies                                    1 20        14.50       1.00                      14.50                          -      31.20    I0%       3.1
Fellowships                                                        1.00             .       20.00                                  21.00     5%       1.1
Workshops                                               4.50                                 4.60            *                      9.10     5%       0.5
Consultants                                    *            *                       .          .60                                  2.e0     5%       0.1
NGO's                                         *                  .           .                2.40                                  2.40     5%       0.1
TotalInvetust Co"                             1.90       32.91      13 55      1.443.64     1.102.32       96.00               *  1.69032    10%    264.4
Recurrent Cotsu                                             .                         .            .           .                               0%
SalarissofAddilionalStaff                  450         46J6       11.0e                   276.15            *                    338.41     5%      16.9
Opeational Expcns                          0 30        20.23       2.50                     56.20         3.73              -       1.96    10%       8.2
Buuldig Maintenance                           .                                 14.45                                              14.48    t0%       1.4
Surgicl Pick Mainenance                                    -                        -        o.n                                    on      10%       0.1
Vehide Mancenanec                          0 IS         0.29       2.25                                  13.68              -      16.40    20%       1.6
Equipnemn Maintenace                                    1 39                        -       35.26            *              -      39.65    lO%       4.0
FurniiureMMainenasee                          *         0.16                                J4.S5            '                      3.01    I0%      0.3
Total Recurre  Cons                          4 98        68.75      14.53         14.45      376.12        17.41               -    496.63     7%      32.7
Tatal 3ASELNE COSTrS                           6.85       101.66      21.3       1.458.12     1.47.50       113.41              -  3.16.95       9%    297.1
Physica Contingences                       0.46         7.52       2.19        143.51       129.79       11.34                    297.11     0%
Price Contingences                         1.51        23.07       5.34        322.11      369.40        13.30                    734.74     9%     62.5
Tot* PROJECT COSTS                             5.56       132.24      35.92      1.926.04     1.977.69      13S.5               -  4.218.79      9%    359.6
Taxes                                      0.12         3.25       1.53         96.73       103.39       12.31                    217.33     9%      19.5
Foreign Exchange                           0.39         7.11       5.S9        '95.96      592.03        74.78              '    979.16      9%     51.0



190                                                       Annex 15
Page 22 of 24
Table 22 West Bengal: Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
Costs in Rs. Millions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOS                                             Pbiwcwgw
Mmsinu Do.4pis A Ikuuui               Ir. SQ_Im       I Qmty A tm _a       o
1ne'      Ssrnds                    Euuzn
M _aamuua  KEOCUtW  & SDuw&  C _q.    Upp
Fr,I  k  eINA S               vil   A  Diw      cin   l_mpo
iw Mdu.,    C:..gr     C ?sW        H.uain   Efhiwmu  Rhraw  Snu                      TOTAL    %      Ar_
Ilnvegmt Cos
CivdWorkes(Renowanion)                                          0..3        520.80                                 101.10    912.75    10%     92.3
Civil Works (New Co   or Ezeionl                     74.60                  916.45           *                     108.90   1.109.95    10%    111.0
Proeuioml Services                                    7.46      0.09        174.73           *                     21.00    203.28   I0%       20.3
Furniture                                 I 00        5.46      1.48                    153.32                      7.42    169.1t 8   0      16.9
Major Medical Equipment                      -                                   -      669.39          *          13.43    682.82    I0%      68.3
Mume Medical Equipmem                                                                    34.82                       1.83     36.65    I0%      3.7
Medial Equipme*nt Surgical Packs*                                                        76.06          *           2.07     78.13    I0%       7.8
Equipment(Other)                          I           JCO 400   9.80             -      439.10                     1 24.81    468.71    20%    46.9
Vehietb                                   1 89       1 1.25                                        176.13          14.11    203.40    OS      20.3
Medical Lab Supplie                          *           -                       -       22.10                      2.00      24.10   10%       2.4
Medicinen                                    *                                          173.77                      7.00    280.77     O%      112.1
Other Supplies                             50         300        1.02            -      353.72       16.01          10.00    314.25    I0%     35.4
MISIIEC Matias*                                       1.00       1.20            *       48.00       10.00          4.40     64.60   I0%       6.5
LocalTraining                            2OU          429        2.83            *       52.0           -           1.00     61.20     5S       3.1
Studies                                  2 00         500                                 10                        200       16.00    I0%      1.6
Fellowhips                                I 00        3.13                                5.70       3.00                     12.33    iS       0.6
WorkrJp                                   200         7.50          *                     5.43       5000           200       2093     3%       1.0
Conmulants                               0 40          4                         .                 .                 1.60      2.40    5%       0.2
NGOas                                    0 60         0 60                                                          2.40       3.60    5%       0.2
Todal 2,veame  Cowt                       12.39       127.69      16.27     1.921.1.98    2042.99    210.16         313.07  4.645.55    I0%    4S.S
Recuret Cost                                  *            *         *             .           .          .              .          *    0%
Salarsof AdditionalStaff                  570       12000                               1 IS6.49        .                    3 312.19    5s    15.6
Opernional Eapenes                       0.70         496                               353.15      52.63          31.00    142.47    I0%      14.2
Building Mamnenae                           .         0.75          -         4.03                                  0.47       3.2    I0%      0.5
Surgial Pack Mairen  e                      *            *            *                   2.28          *           0.06       2.34    I0%      0.2
Veicle Maintenance                          -096 0-96 -0%                                                                                       0.1
Equipment Maiteiwee                      0.10         0.22       1.53                    55.1           .           2.l       9.94    I0%       9.0
Furnice Matuiniecra                      0.08         0.34      0.13                      8 5.31                    0.40       9.26    I0%      0.9
Total Recurrent Coms                       6.5S       126.27       1.66         4.03      335.53      52.63          35.71    562.41    71       40.6
Total 5ASELLIE COSTS                        25.97       253.96     17.93      1.926.01    2.377.52     262.79         350.7t  5.207.96    I0%    500.2
Physiiml Cootiongeras                     1.31       28.60       1.70       192.60      225.27      25.88          34.78    500.14    0%
Prce Conuingence  .                      4 62        61.59      4.53        451.03     6i4.59       62.47          17.71   1.306.54    9%    114.4
Total PROJECTCOSTS                          24.90       334.15     24.16      2.599.64    3.207.3      31. 14         473.26  7.014.63     9%    614.6
Taxes                                    0.56         5.5I       1.47       130.10      191.51      30.46          26.55    359.47     9%      35.4
Foreign Exchatge                         3.37        34.79      3.65        402.21      87. 28     29.94           90.56   1.603.19    9%    145.1



191                                         Annex 15
Page 23 of 24
Table 23: Project Components by Year
Base Costs in Rs. Million
Base Cost in Indian FY
96/97     97198     98/99    99/2000    2000/01     Total
1. Management Development & Institutional Strengthening
la - Improve Institutional Framework for Policy Develpment  9.4   18.7      20.4       13.3      12.9       74.7
lb - Strengthen Management & Implementation Capacity   78.6      175.1     184.2      176.8     158.1     772.9
Ic - Develop Surveillance Capacity                     1Q.2       1921      l.iL      1i6       1lQ         2i1
Subtotal    98.3      213.0     221.2      206.2     188.0      926.7
2. Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectivenes
2a- Renovate & Extend Community. Area & District Hospitals   706.4   1,112.0   1.431.1   1.178.4  398.8   4,826.7
2b - Upgrade Clinical Effectiveness                   457.3   1,086.2   1.378.6   1,214.3   1.278.1   5,414.5
2c - Improve Referral Mechanism                        2Q1       148        9 3 U2i              62.N      4828
Subtotal 1.253.9   2,347.0   2.909.0   2,467.8   1.746.4  10.724.0
3 - Improve Access to Basic Health Services              48.9      120.7     207.0      237.7     230.7      844.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     1.401.1   2.680.6   3.337.2   2.911.6   2.165.1  12,495.6
Physical Contingencies                                133.3      253.2     315.3     272.3      196.0   1.170.1
Price Contingencies                                    52.7     361.2      774.4     940.0      897.5   3,025.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      1,587.1   3,295.0   4.426.9   4.123.9   3.258.5  16,691.4
Taxes                                                  84.4      179.9     235.5     215.3      173.1      888.1
Foreign Exchange                                      350.6     797.2      994.4     880.5      765.2   3.788.0



192                                                   Annex 15
Page 24 of 24
Table 24: Project Components by Financiers
Total Costs in US$ Millions
GO[                IDA                 TouI               For.   (EaeL  De" &
Amount             Amout               .4mount       *           h.   Tamcu) TamT
1. Management Development & Institutional Strengthening
la - Impve Iiaioxal Framework ror Policy Deelpfnem       0.3   13.8%         2.1  86.2%           2.4   0.6%          0.5      1.9       0.0
Ib--SuagthmMangs &ImplementaU onCapacay                   5.8  22.7%        19.7  77.3%          25.5   6.1%          3.5    20.9        1.1
Ic- Develop Survmillance CaWity                           QS   IL1U           a     LLI           LA _     AI         Q.1      _Q        Ql
Subtotal      6.7  21.9%         23.8  78.1%          30.5   7.3%          4.5    24.7        1.2
2. Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectivenes
2a-Renoove &ExsudCommnty. Area&Dtsnctllospils            24.8   15.4%      136.6  84.6%         161.5  38.8%         24.7   128.5        J.2
2b-UpgradeClkicalEffecuveness                            28.7  15.9%       151.5  84.1%         180.2  43.2%         48.1    122.5       9.5
. 2c - Improve Referral Mechmism                           L!   13-11         1.2  869%           i.Q    LI            2.1      5.L       LA
Subtotal    55.6  15.6%         302.1  84.4%         357.7  85.8%         82.1   256.4       19.2
3 - Improve Access to Basic Health Services                 4.3  15.3%        24.1  84.7%          28.5   6.8%          7.9     18.J       I.J
Total Disbursement                                           66.7  16.0%       350.0  84.0%         416.7  100.0%        94.6   299.9       22.2



193                                               Annex 16
Page 1 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Karnataka: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Code  Place                  Tvpe of Health Facility               Bed Strength
Existing   Proposed Additional.
Karnataka State                                         14858      18690       3832
Bangalore District                                        972       1103        131
104 Anekal                Taluk Hospital                       16         50         34
103 Bangalore             HSIS Women & Children               120        120          0
102 Bangalore             Epidemic Diseases Hospital          128        128          0
101 Bangalore             Vanivilas Hospital                  605        605          0
105 Krishnarajapuram      Taluk Hospital                       94        100          6
106 Yellahanka            Taluk Hospital                        9        100         91
Bangalore Rural District                                  331        390         59
201 Channapatna            Taluk Hospital                      94        100          6
202 Devanhalli             Taluk Hospital                      28         30          2
203 Doddaballapur #        Sub-Division Hospital               47         50          3
204 Hosakote               Taluk Hospital                      23         30          7
203 Kanakapura             Taluk Hospital                      50         50          0
206 Magadi                 Taluk Hospital                      30         30          0
207 Nelaniangala #        Taluk Hospital                       12         50         38
208 Ramanagaram  #         Sub-Division Hospital               47         50          3
Belgaum District                                         1058       1220        162
302 (Athni                 Taluk Hospital                      18         50         32
301 Belgaum  N             Disinct Hospital                   740        740          0
303 Chikodi                Sub-Division Hospital               13         50         37
304 Nipani N               Community Health Centre             lO         30         20
305 Gokak                 Taluk Hospital                       40         50         10
306 Hukeri                Taluk Hospital                       30         30          0
307 Khanapur              Taluk Hospital                       28         30          2
308 Saundatti-Yellamma    Taluk Hospital                       47         50          3
309 Yargatti              Community Health Centre              24         30          6
310 Ramdurg               Taluk Hospital                       28         5(         22
311 Raybag                Taluk Hospital                        6         30         24
312 Bailhongal            Sub-Division Hospital                50         5u          u
313 Kittur                Community Health Centre              24         30          6
Bijapur District                                          881       1260       379
602 Badami                 Taluk Hospital                      12         30         18
603 Guledagudda            Community Health Centre             25         30          5
604 Bagalkot               Sub-Division Hospital              150        150          0
605 Basavana Bagevadi      Taluk Hospital                      10         50         40
601 Bijapur #              District Hospital                  440        440          0
606 Bilgi                  Taluk Hospital                      10         30         20
607 Hungund #              Taluk Hospital                      30         50         20
608 llkal                  Community Health Centre             20         50         30
609 Indi                   Sub-Division Hospital               10         50         40
610 Tadavalaga             Community Health Centre              6         30         24
611 lamkhandi              Sub-Division Hospital               50       Ito          5u
612 Rabkavi Banahatti      Community Health Centre             16         30         14
613 Kalgi                  Community Hcalth Centre              6         30         24
614 Muddebihal             Taluk Hospital                      30         50         20
615 Talikota               Community Health Centre             14         30         16
616 Mahalingpur            Community Health Centre             30         30          0
# Casualty Ward to be strengthened/provided



Annex 16
194                                             Page 2 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Karnataka: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Code  Place                  Type of Health Facilitm                           Bcd Strengtl
Existing   Proposed Additional.
Bijapur District Continued
617 Mudhol                 Taluk Hospital                       It         30         20
618 Sindgi                 Taluk Hospital                       12         50         38
Chikmagalur District                                       651        816        165
702 Chiknagalur            Women & Children Hospital            88        100         12
701 Chikmagalur #          District Hospital                   274        300         26
703 Birur                  Community Health Centrc              56         56          0
704 Kadur                  Taluk Hospital                       51        100         49
705 Koppa                  Taluk Hospital                       36         50         14
706 Mudigere               Taluk Hospital                       64        IW0         36
707 Narasimharajapura      Taluk Hospital                       18         30         12
708 Sringen                Taluk Hospital                       14         30         16
709 Tarikere              Sub-Division Hospital                50         50          0
Chitradurga District                                      1703       1870        167
802 Challakere             Taluk Hospital                       30         50         20
903 Nayakanahatti          Community Health Ccntre               0         30         30
804 Parasurainpura         Community Health Ccntre              30         30          0
805 Bharamasagara          Community Health Ccntre               6         30         24
801 Chitradurga #          District Hospital                   391        400          9
806 Sirigere               Taluk Hospital                       30         30          0
807 Davangre               Women & Children Hospital           100        100          0
808 Davangre #             Sub-Division Hospital               850        850          0
809 Harihar                Taluk Hospital                       50         50          0
810 Hiriyur #              Taluk Hospital                       50        100         50
SIl Holalkere              Taluk Hospital                       30         50         20
812 Hosdurga               Taluk Hospital                       36         50         14
813 lagalur                Taluk Hospital                       50         50          0
814 Molakalmuru N          Taluk Hospital                       50         50          0
Daksbina Kannada District                                 1592       1695        103
903 Bantval                Taluk Hospital                       30         30          0
904 Beltangadi             Taluk Hospital                       30         30          0
905 Karkal                 Taluk Hospital                      120        120          0
906 Nitte                  Community Health Centre               6         30         24
907 Kundapura N            Sub-Division Hospital               100        100          0
901 Mangalore #            Wenlock District Hospital           705        705          0
902 Mangalore              Lady Goshen Hospital                234        250         16
908 Mulki                  Community Health Centre              44         50          6
909 Pultur #               Sub-Division Hospital                80        100         20
910 Sulya                  Taluk Hospital                       30         50         20
911 Shirva                 Community Health Ceitre              21         30          9
912 Udupi                  Taluk Hospital                      100        100          0
913 Udupi                  Women & Children Hospital            92        100          8
Dbarwad District                                          1872      2255         383
1002 Byadgi                 Taluk Hospital                       30        30           0
1001 Dharwad                District Hospital                   170       25U          80
1003 Gadag                  Women & Children Hospital           42         50           8
1004 Gadag                  Sub-Division Hospital               60         to0         40
1005 Akki Alur              Community Health Centre              18        30          12
1006 Hangal                 Taluk Hospital                       28        3U           2
# Casualty Ward to be strengthened/provided



195                                               Annex 16
195           Page 3 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Karnataka: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Code  Place                  Type of Hcalth Facilitv               Bcd Strciigti
Existing   Proposed Additional.
Dharwad District Continued
1007 Haveri #              Sub-Division Hospital                90       lUt)         11)
108 Hirekerur              Taluk Hospital                       3(        5(0         20
1009 Chitaguppa            Community Hcalth Cctitrc             45         5U          5
1010 Hubli #               KMC HospitaL                        74u        740          0
1011 Kalghatgi             Taluk Hosptial                       10         30        2(1
1012 Kundgol               Taluk Hospital                        6         30         24
1013 Lakshemeshwar         Community Hcalih Cctire              21         30          9
1014 Mundargi              Taluk Hospital                        0         30         30
1015 Nargund               Taluk Hospital                       2u         30         10
t016 Navalgund             Taluk Hospital                       IS         30         12
1017 Ranibennur            Taluk Hospital                       5U         50          0
1018 Ranibennur            Taluk Hospital                       22         30          8
1019 Gajcndragarh          Community Healli Ccntre              21         30          9
1020 Ron                   Taluk Hospital                        6         30        24
1021 Savanur               Sub-Division Hospital                30         50        20
1021 Shiggaon              Taluk Hospital                       30         50        20
1023 Shirhatti             Taluk Hospital                       10         30        20
Hassan District                                          821        1150       329
1202 Alur                  Taluk Hospital                       10         30         20
1203 Arkalgud              Taluk Hospital                       30         50        20
1204 Konanur               Community Health Ccntrc              is         30         15
1205 Arsikere              Taluk Hospital                       97        IwO          3
1206 Belur                 Taluk Hospital                       10         50        4U
1207 Channaravapaina #     Taluk Hospital                       51)       50          1)
1208 Hirisave              Community Hcalih Centrc              10         30        20
1209 Dudda                 Community Heatht Ccntre               6         30        24
1201 Hassan #              District Hospital                   344       500         156
1210 Halli Mysore          Community Hcalth Ccntre              16         30        14
1211 Holenarasipur         Taluk HospiLal                     IUU         100 I
1212 Sakieshpur #          Sub-Division Hospital               133       1SO          17
Kodagu District                                           953       982         29
1302 Madikeni              Women & Children Hospital          210        210          0
1301 Madikeri N            District Hospital                  200        200          0
1303 Kushalnagar           Community Health Ccnire              34        so         16
1304 Sanivarasante         Community Hcalth Ccntrc              30        30          0
1305 Somvarpet             Taluk Hospital                      112       112          0
1306 Gonikoppal            Community Health Ccntre              27        30          3
1307 Kutta                 Community Hcatlih Ccitrc             28        30          2
1308 Polibetta             Community Hcalth Ccntre              27        30          3
1309 Siddapura             Communusity Health Ccntrc            45        5(          5
1310 Virajpct              Taluk Hospital                     240        240          u
Kolar District                                           1027      1274        247
1402 Bagepalli             Taluk Hospital                      5U         50          0
1403 Bangarapct            Epidcmic Discasc Hospital            24        24          0
1404 Bangarapet            Taluk Hospital                      2N         3U          2
1405 Bangarapet            KGF Hospital                       I5(1       15U         I
1406 Bangarapet            Women & Childrcn Hospital           67        llH)        33
1407 Chikballapur          Sub-Division Hospital               87        lUN)        13
1408 Batlahalli            Community Hcalth Ccntrc             30         30          u
# Casualty Ward to be strengthened/provided



196                                             Annex 16
Page 4 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Karnataka: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Code  Place                  Type of Hcalth Facility              Bcd Streugth
Existing   Proposcd Additional.
1409 Chintamani            Taluk Hospital                       50        50          0
1410 Gaunbidanur           Taluk Hospital                      110        110         0
1411 Gudibanda             Taluk Hospihal                       15        30         15
1401 Kolar #                District HospitLl                 260        400        140
1412 Malur                 Taluk Hospital                       32        50         18
1413 Mulbagal              Taluk Hospital                      24         50         26
1414 Sidlaghatta           Taluk Hospital                      50         50          0
1415 Srinivaspur           Taluk Hospital                      50         50          0
Mandya District                                          414        720        306
1502 Krishnarajpet         Taluk Hospital                       10        30         20
-1503 Kalamuddanadoddi       Community Health Ccitre              6         30        24
1504 Maddur                Taluk HospiLal                      40         50         10
ISOS Malavalli             Taluk Hospital                      50        100         50
1501 Mandya #              District Hospital                  250        4U0        150
1506 Nagamangala           Taluk Hospital                       12        30         18
1507 Pandavapura           Sub-Division Hospital               40         50         10
1508 Shrirangapattana      Taluk Hospital                       6         30         24
Mysore District       -                                  1017      1430        413
1604 Chamarajnagar         Taluk Hospital                      42         S0          8
1605 Chamarajnagar         Taluk HospiLal                      70        100         30
1606 Gundulpet N           Taluk Hospital                      24         50         26
1607 Kabbahalli            Community Healtil Centrc             12        30         18
1608 Heggadadevarnkotc     Taluk Hospital                      5o         5o         - 0
1609 Hunsur N              Sub-Division HospiLal                50        50          U
1610 Kollegal N            Taluk Hospital                      107       150         43
1611 Krishnarajanagara     Taluk Hospital                      65        100         35
1612 Saligrama             Conmmunity Health Centrc            10         30         20
1601 Mysore                Cheluvanba Hospital                400        400          0
1602 Mysore                 Epidemic Disease Hospital           37        5U         13
1603 Mysore                 SMT Maternity Hospital              42        50          8
1613 Nanjangud             Sub-Division Hospital               30        100         70
1614 Piriyapatna           Taluk Hospital                       30        30          0
1615 Bannur                Community Health Centre              6         30         24
1616 Talakad               Community Health Centrc              6         30         24
1617 Tiramaktudal-Narsipur  Sub-Division Hospital              30        IWU         70
1618 Yelandur              Taluk Hospital                       6         30         24
Shimoga District                                          799      1040        241
1902 Bhadravati            Community Health Centre             50         50          0
1903 Chanriagiri           Taluk Hospital                      50         50          0
1804 Honnali               Taluk Hospital                       6         30         24
1805 Hosanagara            Taluk Hospital                      30         50         20
1806 Sagar N               Sub-Division Hospital              100        100          0
1807 Shikarpur             Taluk Hospital                      28         50         22
1808 Siralkoppa            Community Health Ccntrc              6         30         24
1801 Shimoga #             District Hospital                  429        500         71
1809 Sorab                 Taluk Hospital                      Is         50         32
1810 Kannangi              Community Health Centre             24         30          6
181 ITirthahalli           Taluk Hospital                      58        100         42



197                                               Annex 16
Page 5 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Karnataka: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Codc  Placc                  Typc of Hcalth Facility               Bcd Strcugthl
Existiilg  Proposcd Additional.
Tumkur District                                           593        861)       317
1902 Chiknayakanihalli      Taluk Hospital                       6         50         44
1903 Gubbi                  Taluk Hospital                      16         30          14
1904 Koratagere             Taluk Hospital                      33         5t          17
1905 Kimnigal               Taluk Hospital                      30         5u         20
1906 Madhugin               Sub-Division Hospital               5(        lUe         50
1907 Pa%agada               Taluk Hospital                      30         50         2U
1908 Sira                   Taluk Hospital                      30         50         20
1909 Tiptur                 Sub-Division Hospital               65        1 (0        35
1901 Tumnkur #              Distinc Hospital                   325        4(X         75
1910 Turuvekere             Taluk Hospital                                 3 (3       22
Uttara Kannada District                                   549        950        401
2002 Ankola                 Taluk Hospital                      28         5(         22
2003 BhaLkal                Taluk Hospital                      40         50         1(
2004 Dandeli                Communitv Hcalth Ccmtre             46         50          4
2005 Haliyal                Taluk Hospital                      30         30          u
2006 Honavar #              Taluk Hospital                      50         50          u
2001 Kanwar #               District Hospital                  170)       400        230
2007 Kumua                  Sub-Division Hospital               31         50          19
2008 (Tibetan) Mundgod      Community Health Ccntrc             5(        5O          u
2009 Mundgod                Taluk Hospital                       6         309        24
2010 Siddapur               Taluk Hospital                      3u         31)         (
2011 Sirsi #                Sub-Division Hospital               56        100         44
2012 Supa (Joida)           Taluk Hospital                       6         3(1        24
2013 Ycilapur               Taluk Hospital                       6         3U         24
" Casualtv Ward to bc strcngthenedlprovidcd



198                                      Annex 16
Page 6 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Amritsar
HospitalV                     Number of Beds                    Population of
Commtunity                                                      Town (I fig,
Health       Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional |Total    1994 A2Dfg  Rearks
Cectre      I_         I _        Ifunctional    Required  1Required 2   AD)
Sub-Divisional Level
Tar Taran        50         60                                     5 1972      N. Highway
60192       Rly. Line
10 Traumna Beds
Patti            50         50                                     31413       20 km from
38133      N. Highway
Ajnala           50         50                                                 N. Highway
Rly. Line
Baba Bakala      50         50                            -                    5km from
I__ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   N .   H ighw ay
Community Eealth Centres
Lopoke           30         10        20                  20                   30 km from
N. Highway
Majitha          30         30              -             -                    N. Highway
Tarsika          30         10        20                  20                     20 km
N. Highway
Jandiala         30         30              -             -        20512       N. Highway
(Manawala)                                                         22528        Rly. Line
Ghariala         30         30                            -                    30 km from
N. Highway
Khem Karan       30         13        17                  17                    Rly. Line
Sur Singhwala    30         30              -             -                    30 km from
N. Highway
Sirhaii          30         23         7                  7                    N. Highway
Naushera         30         8         22                  22                   N. Highway
Pannuan
Mianwind         30         10        20                 20                    10 km froln
N. Highway
Total           500        404       106                 106_



199                                       Annex 16
Page 7 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Bathinda
Hospital/                         Number of Beds                    Population of
Community                                                           Town (I fig,
Health Centre   Sanctioned  Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig, Remarks
Health__ Cnrfunctional Required  Required 2000 AD)
Children Hospital   too        100         _                   _       171973    N. Highway/
Bathinda                                                               192653    Rly. Line
District Level
Civil Hospital      100. Highway/
Bathinda                   I       _                                             R _  _ t  |RIY. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
Rampura Phul        so         50                                      36855    N. Highway/
39291    Rly. Line
alwandi Sabo       30  _  - 30           .         20        20                 20 39  from N.
Highway
Area flospitals
Civil Hospital       6          6                    19       19                 N. Highway/
Bhucho Mandi    _                                _                 |            |Rly. Line
C.H. Maur Mandi     25         25               -    .                 278932    N. Highway/
________   ________  |_____ _    _32914  RIy. Line
Civil Hospital       10         10      - -          15       15        18402    Rly. Line
Raman Mandi                               I_           _   __      1   20484
Community Health Centres
Coniana              30         30          *                  -   | I 127    N. Highway/
____    _ |_      _ |_                _ -  |     | 12447  Rty. Line
Sanpat              30         30          -              |             2849    N. Highway/
I ____________   I ________  I _______  I _______  I _______  _______  3059     R ty.  Line
|Nathana       |    30          30                   -         -                 20 Km fromnN.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   |_        _|_     | H ighw ay
Bhagta              30         30               |         |                      20 Km from N.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _   Highway
otal              441        441        5-          4       54



200                                      Annex 16
Page 8 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: Faridkot
HospitaV                         Number of Beds                    Population of
Community                                    .                   Town (I fig.
HealtmuCnitre  Sanctioned Funcional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig, Remarks
Health Centre                        functional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
Sub-Divisional Hospitals
Faridkot            S0        SO         -          -        -        65926    N. Highway
79414    Rly. Line
Malout              38        35         3         12        15       63471     N. Highway
75531    Rly. Line
Mizkazsar           50        44         6         50        56       72922    N. Highway
84964    Rly. Line
Moga               100        100        -          -        -        125923    N. Highway
156991    Rly. Line
Area Hlospitals
C.H. Jaito          10        10                   40        40       29956     Rly. Line
31876
C.H. Kotkapura      50        50         -          -        -         68581    N. Highway
79903    Rly. Line
C.H.Gidarbaha       50        25         25                 25        31056    Rly. Line
I  I  I  1   33042
Community Health Centre
Matta               30         -         30                  30                 4 Ian from
|____ _____   |__ _   _Rly.  Line
Nihal Singhwala     30         8        22                   22                 16 kn from
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  RIy.  Line
Baghauran           30                  30                   30  T     _1 N.Higbhway
Dhudhike            30        20         10                  10  |              N. Highway
Daroli Bhai         30         4         26                  26   |i5  n from
|________   |__ _  _N. Highway
Chak Sherewala      30         15        15                  15                  16 in from
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  |__ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   R ly.   L ine
Badal               30        20         10         .        10   |             N. Highway
Doda                30        14         16         .        16   |             N. Highway
Total              58        395        193       102       295  |               _



201                                      Annex 16
Page 9 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Fatehgarh Sahib
HospitaV                         Number of Beds                     Population of
Community                            r                              Town (I fig.
Health Centre  Sanctioned  Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
Ifunctional Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
Fatehgarh Sahib                       ______ ] 50             50
Sub-Divisional Level                                       _
C.H. Amloh          25         25                   25        25        10976    6 km from
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   ______  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   13064  N.  Highway
C.H. Bassi          25         25               -                       19324    Rly. Line
Pathana                                                                 21541
C.H. Khamano         4          4                   21        21   _I_        _  N. Highway
Community Health Centre
CHC Gobindgarh      50         50         -                                      N. Highway/
Total               154        154                  96         6Rly.
|Total              154        154         _96                96



202                                       Annex 16
Page 10 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: Firozpur
Hospital/                         Number of Beds                     Population of
Community__                   __   __   __   _  __   __  __   _Town  (I fig,
Community        Sanctioned |Functional To be made Additional |Total    1994 & 2 fig, Remarks
IHealth Centre            |I          functional |Required  |Required 2000 AD)   |
District Hospital
C.H. Firozpur       100        112                                      86417    N. Highway/
9964     Rly. Line
961 Border Area 12
for Traurna
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H. Fazilka         50        56          -         50        50       64330    N. Highwayf
75970    Rly. Line/ 6
beds for Trauma
C.H. Zira            50        28         22-                  22       25270    N. Highway
28114
Nehru Hospital      106        100         6                   6        116447    N. Highwayl
Abohar                                                                  131815    Rly. Line
Community Health Centres
Jalalabad            36        36          -                   -        21759    Rly. Line
30613
Mamndot              30         4         26                   26
Firozshah            30         8         22                   22
GuruharSahai        30         30               -              -        11628    Rly. Line
13900
Dhabwala Kalan      30          -         30         =         30                 30mi nfErom N.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _ _  H~~~~~~~lighway
Situ Gunno           30        30                                                 36 km from N.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   H ighiw ay
Khui Khera           30         4         26         =         26                 15 km from N.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   Hi~~~~~l ghway
Kot Ise Khan         30         8         22          .        22        8601     N. Highway
10425
Total               552        416       154         50       204



203                                      Annex 16
Page 11 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Gurdaspur
Hospital/                        Number of Beds                    Population of
Commu_nity                                                         Town (I fig.
Commuh Cenity    Sanctioned  Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig, Remarks
Health Centre                         functional JRequired  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
Civil Hospital      100        100   1         1         -        |   60296   IN. Highway/
Gurdaspur      l                                                       70376    Rly. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
Civil Hospital      50         50                   50       S0       104847    N. Highway/
Batala                                                                125982    Rly. Line
Civil Hospital      100       100         -         -                 134486    N. Highway/
Pathankot                     _                                       145918    Rly. Line
Community Health Centres
Qadian              30         25         5                   5        21381    Rly. Line
23901
Kot Santokh Rai     30         25         5                   5                 25 krn from
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _______          _______             _ _ _ _ _             N.  Highway
Kahnuwan            30         30              -              -                 6 km from N.
Highway
Kalanaur            30         30         -                                     28 kn from -
__________   _______  _______  ______        N.  Highway
Fatehgarh           30         12         18 Is                        11743    20 an from
Churian                                                                12943    N. Highway
Bham                30         30         -                   -                 30 km from
N. Highway
Gharota             30          8         22                 22                 3 kmf rom N.
Highway
Bungal Badhani      30         30                                               N. Highway
Narot Jaimal        30         30                             .                 20 km from
Singh n                                                                         Kathua
otal              520       470         50        50       100



204                                      Annex 16
Page 12 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: Eoshiarpur
Hospital/                        Number of Beds                     Population of
Community                                       ,                  Town (I fig.
Commueity    Sanctioned  Functional To be madel Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig  Remarks
Health Centre                         functional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
C.H. Hoshiarpur     200        155        45                  45       137629    N. Highway/
164079    Rly. Station
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H: Garhshankar    50         50                             -        12666    N. Highway/
14334    Rly. Station
C.H. Balahaur       30         30                   20        20                 N. Highway
C.H. Mukerian       50         50                   S0        50       18855    N. Highway/
20775    Rly. Station
C.H. Dasuya         50         50         .                            19811    N. Highway/
__ _ _ __ _ _    _ _ _ __ _1___I                                       22311    Rly. Station
Community Health Centres                                                   _
CHC Bhunga          30         30         -          -                           N. Highway
Saroya              30         30                                                20 km from
N. Highway
Mand Mandher        30         30                                                2a2Skn from
N. Highway
Budhabar            30         10         20                  20                 12 an from
______              _____                 N. Highway
Hajipur             30         26         4                   4                  N. Highway
Tanida              30         20         10                  10       19894    N. Highway/
21922    Rly. Station
Mahalpur            30         30                             .
otal              590        511        79        70       149



205                                       Annex 16
Page 13 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: Jalandhar
Hospitall                       Number of Beds                    Population of
Commnunity                                                      Town (I fig,
Coalthmunitye  Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
Hlealth Centre                      functional |Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
Jalandhar      1400          400   |          |         |-1546273   IN. Highway/
_I _        _     _            I                  1   604740   jRly. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H. Nawan         50         64                                     31184    N. Highway/
Shihr                                                                33344      14 beds for
Trauma & PP
Unit
C.H. Phillaur      50         80                                     22254    N. Highway/
24642    Rly. Line
C.H. Nakodar       56         68                                     29873      12 beds including
32435    for Trauma & PP
Unit/ Rly. Line
Area Hospitals
C.H. Noor Mahal    25         25                                      11695    2S km from N.
12697    Highway
C.H. Shankar       25        25                                                I _n 18km from N.
Highway
Community Health Centres
CHC Banga          30         25        5                            26 19453    N.Highway
22639
Kala Bakra         30         8         22                  22                 N. Highway/
_Rly. Line
Kartar pur         30         30         .                  .        22328    N. Highway/
24608    Rly. Line
Mukandpur          30         8         22                  22                 20 km from N.
| Highway
Shahkot            30         16        14                  14        11594  , 4km from N.
14054    Highway
Bandala            S0        S-    -                        -                  25 km from N.
| Highway
Bada Pind          30         8         22                  22                 4 km from N.
I         I                                       I_ _  .      | Highway
Total             836        807        8S                 85    _ __



206                                     Annex 16
Page 14 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Kapurthala
Hospital                         Number of Beds                    Population of
lCommunity                               .                         Town (I fig,
CoalthmCentye  Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig.  Remarks
Health C entre   .                   functional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
Kapurthala     |   125   |   125   |    -    |                -         70528     N. Highway/
l          l         l          l                       79726      Rly. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H. Phagwara       50        56                    SO       50         93080     N. Highway/
101419    Rly. Line/ 6 beds
for Trauma &
CPP unit
C.H. Sultanpur      50        20         30                  30         14239     Rly. Line
Lodhi                                                            .      15109
Community Health Centres
CHC KALA            30         12        t                    s18                 12 km from N.
sanghia                                                                           Highway
Begowal             30        40                             O- 10beds for
Trauma Ward
Panchhat            30         8         22                  22                   18 km from N.
.__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _lHighw ay
ibba              30         12         18                  18                   26 km from N.
l _____________  _________   ________ _  _________   ________   _______  _____________  H ig hw ay
Total              345        273        88         50       138



207                                      Annex 16
Page 15 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Ludhiana
Hospitall                        Number of Beds                    Population of
Community                                                          Town (I fig.
ealth Centre   Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
HatCtrfunctional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
Ludhiana       T         100             100 I-     1        100       1227457  IN. Highway/
l                     l  l     l          l           1608035  [RIy. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H. Samrala        50         50         -                   -        16719    N. Highway
20031
C.H. Khanna         106        50        56                  56        79705    N. Highway/
93955    Rly. Line
C.H. Raikot          -         -          -         50       50        22639    N. Highway
25543
C.H. lagraon        50         30        20         .        20        50312    N. Highway
55736
C.H. Payal          30         8         22         20       42         6120     6 km from
_   6540      N. Highway
Community Health Centres
CHC Sahnewal        30         8         22                  22                  N. Highway/
Rly. Line
aLaudW              30         30              -              -                  30 km from
N. Highway
Pakhowal            30         8         22                  22                  8 km from
I_________  _______  ______                 N. Highway
Manupur             30         30             0-              -                  IIkrn from
X_________  _ ______    ______  __ __  N. Highway
Machhiwara          30         30                                      15345    8 km from
18597    N. Highway
Sidhwanbet          30         30                                                5 km from
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   N .  H ighw ay
Gunrsar Sudhar      30         8         22         -        22                  N. Highway
Total              546        382       164        170      334



208                                       Annex 16
Page 16 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Mansa
HospitaV                        Number of Beds                    Population of
Cornmunity                                                        Town (I fig,
Commuh Cenity    Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
Health Centre                       fuInctional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
C.H. Mansa         100        100   |         |              -       60073    Rly. Line/S kn
__________I                                             |        |   68384   |from N. highway
Sub-Divisional Level
Budhladha           30        30                  20        20        19808    Rly. Line
21830
Jhunir at           30        30                  20        20                 N. Highway
Sardulprh
Community Health Centre
KiolaKalan          30        30               |                                   IIN. Highway
Total          |  190   |  190           -        40        40   |            l



209                                     Annex 16
Page 17 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
D istrict: Pa tia la
Hospital/                        Number of Beds                    Population of
Community________                             ___   ___Town (I fig,
Commuinity      Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total    1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
Health Centre                        functional  Required  Required 2000 AD)
Mata Kaushalya     200        200        .                           274354   N. Highway/
Hospital Patiala I _      I         I          I         i   1       307213   Rly. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
A.P. Jain Hospital    50      50                   50        50       75612    Proposed addition
Rajpura                                                               84132    of S0 beds for
Trauma HospitaL)
N. lHighway/RJy.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _L in e
C.H. Nabha          100       150                                     5 57769    Including 32 beds
63973    of women hospital
18 for Trauma PP
unitlRly. Line
C.H. Samana         25        25                   25        25       38573     N. Highway
42799
Community Health Centres
CHC Model Town      30        10         20         -        20
Patiala
Doodhan Sadhan      30        25         S          -        5                  1 km from N.
Highway
Kalomajra           30         13        17         -        17                N. Highway
Dera Bassi          30         5         22         -        22       10506    N. Highway
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ 12 174   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ghanaur             30        25         5          -        5                   lkm from N.
I_______  _      _    _                                         Highway
Bhadson             30         8         22         -        22                N. Highway
Ebdstuhpur          30        18         12         -        12                 12  n from N.
________  _____  _____         _ _ _ _ _ _    Highway
Shatrana            30        20         10         .        10   |            N. Highwvay
Total              615       552        113        75       188  |



210                                  Annex 16
Page 18 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Rupnagar
Hospital/                       Number of Beds                   Population of
Community                                                        Town (I fig,
Coalthmenitye  Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional Total   1994 & 2 fig. Remarks
HeathCenrefunctional Required  Required 2000 AD)
District Hospital
C.H. Rupnagar  |   100   I  100          -    |             -        43600   IN. Highway/
______ I __ ] __ 1                                              1   53860    JRJy. Line
Sub-Divisional Level
C.H. Anandpur      30         25        5         20       25        11601    N. Highway/
Sahib                                                                13398    Rly. Line
C.H. Kharar        30         50                  20       20       27733    Excess of 20
30709    adjusted as
requirea
I__ __ _   __ _   __ _   _   I_ _  IN. Highway
Area Hospital
SAS Napr           50         50                  150      150      96183    Proposed addtion
(Mohali)                                                            130699   of 150 beds for
Dental Training
Units to take
worck load of
PGI at
Chandigarh/
N. Highway
Community Health Centres
Cham Kaur Sahib    30         30         -                                   | 20 bn from N.
|_______  __ __ _    Highway
Nurpur Bedi        30         20        10         .       10                 25 km from N.
|_____   |__   ___High way
Kurali             30         25        S          -        S        19826    N. Highway/
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|  23942  |R1y. Line
Total              300       300        20       190      210



211                                      Annex 16
Page 19 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Punjab: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District:Sangrur
Hospital/                        NUmber of Beds                   Population of
Community                                                         Town (I rig
HeaCth Centre  Sanctioned Functional To be made Additional lTotal    1994 & 2 fig.  Remarks
HeathCeeI  functional  Required  IRequired 2000 AD)
District Hospital         __
C.H. Sangrur       100        120        -                            61030      N. Highway/
Sub-Divisional Level  I________        J   69154    | Railway line
Sub-Divisionsl Level
C.M. Barnala       100        100                                     96554      N. Highway/
139465      Railway line
C.H. Malerkodla    100        100                                      5 9S346   N. Highway/
107298      Railway line
C.H. Sunam          50        50                   50       50        46781      N. Highway/
52061     'Railway line
Community  ealth Centres
CHC Dhuri           30        44         -         20        20       42052      N. Highway/
50584      Railway line
Bhadaur             30         7         23                  23        15356       26 km firom
_____  _____                  16334       N. Highway
hragaga            30         tO        20                  20        16922       10km afom
19442      N. Highway
Longowal            30        30         -                   -                    10 kn fromn
N. Highway
Bhawaniprh          30        14         16                  16        15707      N. Highway
_______________   __________            ________    190 43      _  _ _ _ _ _
Dhanaula            30        20         10                  10       16551       N. Highway
_______  1 8191     _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Azargarh            30         8        22                  22                    N.Highway
Ahmadprh            30        6         24                  24        29339       N.Highway
36239
Kauhrian            30        30              -              -                     15 ki from
N. Highway
Otal             620        539       115        70       185



212                                                          Annex 16
Page 20 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District Hospitals         Sut-Divisious/   |   Ruml Hospitals
State GenL Hospitals
cd.   a n.   the tsdgtb                Aema    | 1Uy    | AcIt 3 |ds tf                  Aetusi   hpeletwa     of
ne.   Dilmket              Bob       OP_Ud saI4                                        OperaUtinl  the Distlet
soft                    go                       so"e       an Lakhsl
01    K    lur              400         400          488          486          30          30         21.58
02   JAiun                  610         610         325           350         265         285         27.89
03    Da*cJing              258         300          696          766         [lo          110        1335
04    Uttw D0 puPr          158         350          68            66          70           70        Id 57
05    Dakslhn Dlnpsr        300         300            -            -          55           75        12.71
06   -4awds                 500         500            -            -         236         238         2637
07   M4urdfilsbad           616         616          750         750          275         275         47.40
0W    Nadu                  475         475         1027         105S         240    i    240         38.52
09    Ncnh 24-Petas         306         5C0         1642         1792         235         250         72.82
to   Soah 24-.Pras         600          800         581          706          495         325         57.15
it   H ly                  500          550         970          970          225         225         43.55
32    Haam                 506          600         664           696          75         175         37.30
13  MIidnapeS 541                       541        1046         1240          465         480         83.31
34   Bankhs                   -                     255          350          180    ,    ISO         2.05
is   Puruna                506          506          68                       1 50   j    150         22.25
16   Burdwsn                  -           -         684          930          270         270         60.51
17   CLrbhum               520          520         256          375           170        170         25.56
TOtAL               6796         7366        9520        10607         3646        3746        6.80
DLstriet: Kao.bbehar (011                                                              Cost in Lacs of Rupeces
Code No.    Name of the             Beds (numbers)                   Buildig           I     Staff  uarters
Hospital         Senclonedi   Actual          Renovation i Ertension  Renov.tion i  New
Operational                       New                     Coostn.
01301        Koochbehar            400         400          100.00         116.02         6.65         19.44
Dutrict Hospital
SUWDIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
01201        Mathabhanga           120          120          34.57          82.48        20.72
01202        Melchligunge          120          120          29.60          70.98        16.31          -
01203        Toowingange            68           68          25.27          70.9t8       18.24          8.27
01204        Dlnhata               180          180          46.64          73.98        30.00          -
RURAL HOSPITAJL
03101        Haldkban               30           30           10.74         38.95        12.10          -
TOTAL                918         916          246.62        453.39        104.02        27.71



213                                                   Annex 16
Page 21 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: JALPAIGURI (021                                                   Cost In Laces of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the         Beds (numbers)               Bulding               Staff gurters
Hospital       Sanctoned1  Actual       Renovation i EzteniLon  Renovation)  New
Operational i                New                  Constn.
02101      Jalpaigun          610         610         54.77      155.52        8.26       19.44
Dist. Hospial"**
SUB-DIVISIONAL/STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
02201      Allpurduar**       225         250         61.31       85.98       11.77        -
02202      Blrpara             100        100         30.37       81.58       14.5         -
RURAL HOSPITAL
02301      FaliakaLa *         30          50          8.82       85.95       13.25       8.27
02302      Mal*               100         100         14.34       42.70       15.22       8.27
02303      Mainagun            60          60          4.83       39.25      50.76        4.86
02304      R-agunge            25          25          4.56       54.95       3.68        4.86
02305      Dhupgun             30          30          9.70       30.05       11.10       4.86
02:06      3hauban             20          20         12.87       25.60       S.18         -
TOTAL            1200        1245       201.57       601.58     136.72       50.56
- 25
. 1220
District  DAtRJEELL4G (03)                                                  Cost In Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   mame of the          Beds (nunbers)               Buliding             Stiaff gunners
Hospital       Sanctioned    Actual     Renovation . Extension  Renovationt  New
Operational                  New                  Constn.
Constn.
03101       Darjeeling        258         300         50.67       136.17       3.10       19.44
Dist. Hospital *
SUB-DIMISIONAL HOSPITAL
03201       Kalimpong         370         370         15.46       97.48        8.89       14.58
03202       Kurseong            76         76         37.89       73.73        8.94        -
03203       SAilgufl*W        250         320         71 80       70.98        7.48       14.58
RURAL HOSPITAL
03301       Khanban            30          30         15.68       41.35        9.00        -
03302       .Natnsaban *        50         50         19.35       27.45       20.30
03303       Bijanban           30          30         15.97       39.60.      10.31
TOTAL            1064        1176       226.82       486.76      68.02       63.18
- 70
* 1106
NOTE :.N extra bed sparce s required for Sligun S D. Ilospital as there is alreadv space for 70 NO&. beds.
*     RuRl uhosptals Located in Intepated Tnbal Project areas.
Riws hospals with a sizesble tnbl populauan in the catchmuc  e.



214                                                  Annex 16
Page 22 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: UTrrAt DINAJPUR (041                                               Cost in Lees of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          Beds (numbers)               BuUding               Staff guarters
Hospita.       Sanctioned I  Actua       Renovation i Extenslon i Renovatest   New
Operational I            |   New                   Conrta
I                         Iconstn.                 1
04101       Raigunge           IS8        350          13.85       185.92      29.56      19.44
Dist Hospital **
SUN DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL/STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
04201      Islampur r*          68         68           6.75       92.48       20.42       8.27
RURAL HOSPITAL
04301       Kallagunge          70         70          7.40        64.05       12.70
TOTAL             296         468         28.00       342.45      62.68      27.71
District  DAXSIX DINAJPUR (05)                                               Cost In Laca of Rupees
Code No.   Nme of the           D eds (numbers               BiUding               3 Staff 9uazters
Hospital      1SnCUoned\i  Actual        Renavation i Eztension i Renovstionj  New
Operdtonale                   New                 C.nstn.
!            $                ~~~~~~~~~Cnsuta .  
05101       Balurghat          300        300          10.28       85.82       10.70      19.44
Dist Hospital
RURAL HOSPITAL
05301       Gangarampurt        30         so          25.00       38.35           -          -
05302       HIMl*               25         25         10.60        49.85        2.70       4.86
TOTAL             35a         375         45.68       174.02       13.40     24.30
RusA boxqtals locad  in beled Tnlu Pnej aeas
**    RusR hopisals vith a szable tnbul populaaio in tbe eacm  arm



215                                                  Annex 16
Page 23 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
Dlstriet: MALDA (06)                                                        Cost in Laes of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          Beds (numbers)              Building              StAff quarters
Hospital      Sanctioned I  Actual      Renovtlon i Extenslon i Renovation i  New
Operutonal I                 New                  Coestn.
06101       Malda**           500         50         113.89       85.22        9.18       19.44
Dist. Hospttal
RURAL HOSPITAL
06301       Chanchar           68          68         22.87       29.45        8.26        -
063,02      Hanschandrapur     65          65          7.70       31.60        9.90
06303       Manikchak          25          25          6.10       27.70        9.50        _
06304       Bamangola *        25          25          4.27       40.95        6.31        -
06305      Habibpur *          25         25          3.45        33.45       8.83         -
06306        azteI a           30          30         13.00       36.25        6.45
TOTAL             738        738         171.28      286.62      58.43        19.44
Distuict   Uirldabod 107)                                                   Cost in Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          Beds (nurebers)             BuUdin4g              Staff Qartenrs
He pital       Sanctloned i  ActuAl     Renovation i Extenslon  Renovatiog i  New
Operational             I   New.                  Consta.
|Corata.       
07101       Berhampur         616         616         62.58      101.12       12.70       19.44
Dist. Hospital
SUB-DIVMSIONAL HOSPITAL
07201       Janppur           250         250        106.21       76.98       21.32        -
07202       Kardl             250         250         32.00       91.63        7.42        -
07203       La,hi**           250        250          17.78       61.48       9.85         -
RURAL HOSPITAL
07301       Klshnapur          50          50         24          18.45        4           -
07302       Afltala            50          50         29           3.45        3           -
07303       Khmargrrn          60          60        61            3.45       15           7.02
07304        ardlbht *         30          30         13           4.45       4            -
07305       Sadilhiandtar      25          25         31          28.45       3
07306       Islampur           30          30         33           3.45        5
07307       Beldanua           30          30         29           4.45        2
TOTAL            1641        1641       438.57       397.36       87.29      26.46
* RigsR bospas lcAd in ulnebod Tnbal Projet arcm,
es    Rwal    talas with a mube tnbel popuisuan u the cacnm arme



216                                                    Annex 16
Page 24 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: NADIA (082                                                          Cost In LAcs of Rupees
Code No.   Nome of the           Beds (nuinberl                Buildlng       I      Staff tuarters
HospItal      iSanctionedl   Actual      Renovation i Eztension i Renovation i  New
Opertional I                  Nev                  Constn.
l   l                     |             | ~~~~~~~~~~~Constn.!
08101       Kzishnanagar        475        475          82.50       131.82      34.65        19.44
Dist. Hospital
SUU-DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
08201       Raaghat             171        200          65.28       104.28      33.00         -
08202       Kalywu IJ.N.MI      550        550         155.97       82.38       36.00         -
STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
08203       Sanupur             131        131          43          23.00        3            -
08204       Chakdah              50         50          39.28       76.28        3.30         -
04205       Nabadwip            125        125          35.36       92.28        12.84        -
RURAL HOSPITAL
08301       Bcthuadahan          60         60          27          39.45        2            -
08302       Bagula               30         :10         13          29.45        2            -
08303       Hartnghats           25         25          29          23.45        2            -
08304       Chapra               25         25          29          28.45        3            -
08305       Karlmpur             50         S0.         21            4.45       4            -
08306       Kaligunge            25         25          32           28.45       2            -
08307       Knshnagunge          25         25          29          28.45        3            -
TOTAL             1742        1771        601.39       692.19      140.79       19.44
DistHct  Nortl 24-Bsrganas (093                                               Cost in LAcs of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the           Beds (numbers)               Building        I     Staff guarters
! Nospita      S.nctioned I  Actual      Renovation, Extension  Renovation i  Nevw
O perationali      i           Nevvw                Constn.
|                  I ~~~~~~Constn.i
09101 3     anat                306        500          70.45       185.97      51.60        19.44
Dtst Hospital
SU-DMVSIONAL HOSPrTAL
09201      Basalrhat            200        250          42.92        85.38       11.20
09202      B3arnckpur           200 200                 24.70        89.93      66.40 2
09203     aBoapon               250        300          31.95       111.48      27.50         3.41
STATZ GENERAL HOSPITAL
09204      Baranagar            0OO         100         48           28.98       3            -
09205      Asokena4sr            30         30          91           26.98       3            -
020S      5hntpam              119         li1         40.70       68.88      112.00
09207      NagaU                131         '3'         58.00        65.83      26.40
09208      PmrAhaU              tS0         150         61.50        65.83      26.40         -
09209      SareduttalKamarhatal  131        131         99          21.98        2            -
09210      Barsm  Seu Mandlr  100           100         36           62.48      24.00         -
09211      Salt Lake            100         100         22.37        33.83      26.40         -
09212      Habra                131         131        o08           26.98       2            -
RUlAL HOSPtTAL
09301      Baeda                 30         30          55            3.45       2            -
09302      minakhanI,            25         25          36           34.45       5            -
09303      Badunta               60         60          24           39.45       7            -
09304      Sandahkhal$           25         25          61           34.45       2            7.2
0930S      Takl                  50         50           6            4.45       2           30.15
09306      Serapul               15         30          42           34.45       4            7.02
09307      Mallymmenrm           30         30           8            3.45       3            -
TOTAL              2183       2542         9-.59       1026.6      408.90        67.04
Rual hopttals locaAd in ntegmted Tribal Project arm
s     Rtnl hospitals wtth a siznble tnbsl populauon tn the caichtfnt srie.



217                                                 Annex 16
Page 25 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: SOUT1f 24-PARGANAS [101                                            Cost La Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   Mai une of the           Beds (numnbersl i  Building             Stanf Quarters
Hospita.l      Sanctioned    Actual      Renovation i Extension I Renovation   New
Operational                                        CoaNewlta.
10101      M. R. Bangur       600         600          35.00       108.42       35.00        19.44
01st Hospital
SUB DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
10201      Diamond Harbour   125          250          22.30       172.98       35.82        14.58
STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
10202      Vidyasagar         256         256          40.00        81.78       13.40
10203      Bljoyagarh          100        100          30.00        39.30       26.40         -
10204      BaghaJaun           100        100          23.95        35.80       10.00         -
RURAL HOSPITAL
l0301      Barulpur             50         50          27           18.45        5            -
10302      Somarpur            25          25          32           18.45        7            -
10303      Canuung *           50          50          42            4.45        7            -
10304      Joynagar             25         25          21           28.45        8            -
10305      Sagar               25          30           17           0.10        2            -
10306      Kakdwip             100        100           10           3.45        4            -
10307      Maihurapur           60         60          57            3.45        3            -
1030f      Nimpitt              30         30          26           18.45        2            -
10309      muchasa              IS         30            4           3.45        4            -
10310      Padmarhat            IS        .10          29           34.45        2            -
10311      Antala               50         50           14           4.45        2            -
10312      Raidight             50         50          3t           18.45        3            -
TOTAL             1676       1836         461.25       594.33      169.62        34.02
District: HAORA III)                                                         Cost La Laca of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          Beds (numbersl               Building               Staff Quarters
Hospital       Sanctiooedl   Actual     Renovation i Extension i Renovation I  New
I Operatloual i                New                  Coustn.
IConstn.
11101       Howrah             506        600          16.70      144.92       23.98      19.44
Dist Hospital
SUB DMVISIONAL HOSPITAL
11201       Ulubena            216        250         62.11        92.23       17.26          -
STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
11202       Belur               10         10          13.48       70.98        0.00          -
11203      Gabberna            118        118            55         8.98           -
11204       South Haora         io         10         37.83        53.73       15.65          -
11205       Uluah rLJI         260        260         101.00       64.28       22.60          -
11206       Udaynarayanptir     50         50            49         8.98
RURAL HOSPITAL
11301       Bagnan              40         40            24        18.45          2           -
11302      Jagatballavptr       60         60            20        28.45          4       9.72
11303      Domjur               25         25            20        18.45          4        7.02
11304      Aslragun             50         50           .27         3.45          4           -
TOTAL             1345       1473        433.12      512.50       93.49      36.18
*     Ruld bopas located in lotemted Tnbel Proje srea
Ruml hospitals with a szable tnbiu populauon m the caltdument Arr.



Annex 16
Page 26 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: HOOGHLY (12)                                                           Cost in Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   Ntmne of the           Beds (numnbers)               Building         i     Staff gurters
Hospital        SanctIonedl   AetiAl       Renovation    Extension iRenevsUomn    New
OperationalI                   New                   Comsttn.
Constn.
12101       Chinsurah           500         550         112.75       115.52       44.40         19.44
Dlst Hospilti
SUB-DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
12201       Arambagh            250         250          24.77        94.35        6.70         8.27
12202       Chandannagar        250         250          26.80        68.18        14.50         -
12203       Srlrampur           266         266          12.00        80.48        8.27          -
STATE HOSPITAL
12204       UUarpara            204         204          75.00        60.58       37.90          -
RURAL HOSPITAL
12301       Chandlitala          30          30          24           57.45        3            -
12302       Slngur               60          60          26           39.45        a             -
12303       Janglpara            60          60          39           39.45        3             -
12304       Dhanaklhala *        25          25          35           28.45        4            -
12305       Pandua *             25          25          49           28.45        5             -
12306       Khanakul             25          25          66           28.45        5             -
TOTAL             1695        1745         490.32       640.81       139.77        27.71
Diutrict  IDADNAORE (133                                                         Cost in Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the            Beds (numbersl                Building         i     Staff guaxters
Hospit l       Ssctionedt   Actual         Renovation i Extension t Renovation    New
.S*nctlond |Opertlonal *               |    New    '               Constn.
;                              ~~~~~~~        ~      ~~Constn.  
13101       Mindapore           541         541          62.00       107.42         7.73        19.44
DiaL Hospital **
SUWDIVISIORAL HOSPITAL
13201       Conut                125        125          11.80        68.48        5.47          -
13202       Chatal               131         150         27.88        76.26         7.28
13203       Jhargm  **          265         265          33.28        91.88       23.00          -
13204       Tamluk              12S         300          12.25       169.93        6.10          -
13205       mauin               100          100          8.25        57.12         5.00         -
STATZ CZ.ZRAL HOSPITAL
13206       Digla                50          50          36.84        70.98       26.42          -
13207       IDamnpur            250         250          14.00        S5.52        8.40         8.27
RURAL HOSPITAL
13301       Fhapuanpur            15         30          40           29.45        4             -
13302       Bnzpur *             25          25          63           29.45       30             7.02
13303       Chandrakona          60          60          33           39.45        IS           7.02
13304       Daspur               25          25          47           29.45       IS             -
13305       Debr  "              25          25          39           23.45        5
13306       Egra                 60          60         304           39.45        2             -
13307      GCabeta-              60          60          29           39.45        8             -
13308       1111                60          60          47           39.45        9             -
13309       Saban4               25          25          30            3.45        4             -
1:310       Salbontu             25          25          38           29.45        5             -
13311       reapare              25          25          S3           29.45       30            7.02
J3312       Kphpur*              30         .14)         49            4.45        16            -
13313       BasuIa               30         :.0         - 35           3.45        5-
TOTAL             2052        2261         843.30       1037.44      237.40        46.77
*     Rural hopitals located   InTepated Tribal Project are.
*s    Rul bospitals vsnh a sttable tIbsl populauion in the cavzcmt arta.



219                                                   Annex 16
Page 27 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: BANKURA (14)                                                       Cost In Lace of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          Beds (numbers)               Buliding              Staff Quarters
Hospital       Sanctionedil   Actual     Renovation I Eztension i Renevation I  New
OpertsUons I:N| Coastn.
Constn.       
SUR DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
14201      Blshnupur           230        250          6.40       103.68        4.25        -
14202      Khatra               25        100         36.84       133.28      26.42         -
RURAL HOSPITAL
14301      Kotolpur             60         60          4           14.45       2            -
14302      Raipur*              30         30         16            3.45       3            -
14303      TSdaSngra*           30         30         is            4.45       4            -
14304      Sonamukha            30         30          3            3.45       2            -
14305      Amarkanan            30         30          3            7.45       4            -
TOTAL              43S        530         85.24       267.21      45.67         -
Distrct  PURULIA (15)                                                        Cost in Lacs of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the          6ede (nusbers)               Bulidizt              Staff Quarters
No.plasl       Sanctonedi   Actual       Renovti on   Extension  RenovaUon I  New
|Opectsona I                  New                  Coentn.
I |          |  Conrtn.               |
15101      Purunla             506        506         75.71        94.55       14.22       19.44
Dist Hospital **
STATE GENERAL HOSPITAL
15201      Raghunashpur **      68         68          15.90       70.98        8.42        -
RURAL HOSPITAL
15301      Manbazar *           30         30         30            4.45        3           -
15302      Harmadt              30         30          11           3.45        3           -
15303      Bansgarab            30         30          10           4.45        3
15304      Hura*                30         30          15           3.45        2           -
15305      Kotstla *            30         30          10           3.45        3           -
TOTAL              724        724        167.61       184.78       36.64       19.44
Rww bspsls cwaed in Inpsad Trnbal Project reas
Rund boepsids wutb a sze  tnbal populaiUn in the rachctKM



220                                                     Annex 16
Page 28 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District: Ourdwun (16)                                                       Cost In Lacs of Rupees
Code No. ! Nnme of the          Beds (numbers)               Butiding              Staf guaters
Hospital       Sanetioned    Actual      Renovation i Extension i Renovationi  New
!           Operational I                  New| Constn.
i            I  Constn.
SUB DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
16201      Asol**             205         350         29.35       174.18       28.20       14.58
16202      Durgapur**          164        200         30.00       105.98       29.40        4.86
16203      Kalna               135        200         50.30       158.63       17.80        8.27
16204      Katws               ISO        ISO         53.00       124.98       18.00        8.27
RURAL HOSPITAL
16301      Meman                60         60         52            4.45       10           -
16302      Slngot               50         50        152            3.45        5           -
16303      Shatar               SO         50         44            4.45        5
16304      Srirampur            30         30          8            3.45        5
16305      Mankar               30         30          8            4.45        3           -
1I306      Baliavptur           50         50         41            3.45        4
TOTAL             954        1200        367.65       567.47      125.40       35.98
District  BlURlHWU (I7)                                                      Cost in Lee of Rupees
Code No.   Nane of the          Beds (numbersi               3ulldinK              Staff guarters
Hospital       Sanctioned I  Actura      Renovation   Extension i Renovation I  New
Opertional Is                 New                 Coasta.
;  |                      !  Constn.               I
17101      Surt                520        520         90.40       194.52       35.15      19.44
Dist Hospital
SUB DIVISIONAL HOSPITAL
17201      Rampurhae*          131        250            SO       127.56       18.85       8.27
17202      Bolepur .t*         125        1 15        82.95        70.38       37.00          -
RURAL HOSPITAL
17301      Murarat              50         50            68         4.45          10          -
17302      Satnthia             60         60            39        18.45         20           -
17303      Labpur*              30         30            15         3.45          15          -
17304      Dubrajpur            30         :10           10         4.45         IS           -
TOTAL              946       1065        355.35       423.26      151.00     27.71
- 129
. 936
NOTE   No extra bed space to rcquircd for Rampuahat S.). Ilospital as ihere is alreadv erusing space for 119
beds.
Rard boauis located n Integmed Tnbal Project areas.
*     RtduR hospitals vth a szeac tnbal populaUon tn the cashmatt are



221                                                    Annex 16
Page 29 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
SUNDARBAN
District  North 24-ParganaS                                                    Coet In LLCe at Rupees
Code No.   Name of the           Beds (numbere)                Bulding         !      Staff Quarters
Hospital       1anctioned I   Aetuai      Renovetion   Extension i Renovetioni  New
|operesuonias                       New                   COMMtn
I                     ~~~~~~~Coasts.
B.PJLC.
09401       Haroa                15          15            26           36           7          14
09402       Sandelerbil          10          15            26           36           7          14
09403       Choshpur             10          15            28           36           11         14
P.HC.
09501       Gopaipur              6           6            21            18          5           7
09502       Kanargantha           6           6             19           13          19          6
09503       Ninbichi              6           6             16           18          6           7
09504       Bhawanmpur           10          10            27            18          9           7
09505       Ghola                 6           6            18           t8           6           7
09506       Barunhat              2           6             14           17          4           6
09507       Sahebkhali            6           6            23            t8          8           7
09508       HinJaigunj            2           6             18          23            5          7
09509       Jogeshgan)            2           6            23           23           5           7
09510       Hatgachht             6           6             10           13          8           6
09511       NaZat                 2          10             14           17          8           6
09512       Korakau               6           6            20            13           4          6
District  South 24-Parganas                                                    Cost in Lace of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the               Beds (numbers             BuUding          I    Staff Quarters
Hospital       Sanctioned 1   Actual      Renovation i Extension i Renovatlon i  New
Operationsal                   New| Coasts.
|                  | ~~~~~~Coesatn   
10401       Madhabnagar          10         25             28           36          13         21
10402       Gosba                10         25             29           36          I3         21
10403       Basanu               10         25             29           36          13         21
10404       Namkhana
DwarlLanagar         15         25             30           36          t0         21
10405       tatherdight          10          10            28           24           9          14
P.M-C.
10501       Brajaballavpur       14          14            19           13          14          6
10502       Gadamathura          10          10            17           13          12          6
10503      Indrapur               6           6            11           13           a          6
10504       Chotomollakhali      10          10            16           13           7          6
10505      Dhakunradhanatar      2           6             II           17           7          6
10506       Kalkhaii             6           6             10           12           7          6
10507       Bhubaneswan           6           6            25           18           3          7



222                                                       Annex 16
Page 30 of 30
SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
West Bengal: List of Hospitals to be Extended/Renovated
District  SOUTH 24-PARGANAS                                                       Coat in Laes of Rupees
Code No.   Name of the            Beds (numberi                  Bulhding                Staff Quanrters
Hospital        SnctUonedi   Actual         RenovatUoa    Kstenslon  Renoatlor    New
Operational I                   New                   Coat.
I           ~~~Couistn.
10508       Kantaman               6           6             25            is           3           7
10509       Kanthalbena            4          10             13            17           7           6
0OSI0       Bagdan4a %fousumi    2             6             25            23           3           7
105IO       Fraserganj             2           6             14            17           7           6
10512       Harendranagar          4           6             13            17          12           6
10513       Ramchandranagar        4           6             20            23           2           7
10514       KuchiLalhat            2           6             25            23           3           7
10515       Nailgora               2           6             25            23           2           7
10516       Ghuuarshan(            4          10             25            22           3           7
SUNDAR2AN
Code      Name of the              Type of          ExistAng      AddlUiaoal Bed       Popuistiom of
No.       District                 Hospital           Beds        Space required       The District
09400     North 24-Paganas         S.P.H.C             35                10              2.71.000
(Sundarbanli                          I
0950s      North 24 Parganas        P. H.C.            60                20               - do -
ISundarbanl
10400     South 24-Parganas        B.P.11C             55               55              21.29.000
ISundarbanl                           I
10500     South 24 Parganas         P.HC.              t6               34                 -do-
lSundarban)        I



223                                                        Annex 17
Page 1 of 1
PROCUREMIENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total Costs in USS Millions
Pretm. ~.Iutod
compisiw,    Campis           lmas.a1au        LAl         otur
BIddag       SW&"             Shppi        Shoppu    M%lo& /a        Toal
CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works                                -          134.2   /b                                  15.0        152.2
(114.1)                                     (15.3)      (129.4)
GOODS
Furniture                                              8.5     /c                     2.8                      11.4
(7.7)                          (2.6)                   (10.2)
Equipment                                54 9          12.7             4.2           12.7                     84.5
(49 4)       (11.4)            (3.8)        (11.4)                   (76.0)
Vehicles                                 14 3           .                             0.3                      14.6
(12.9)                                       (0.3)                   (13.1)
Medical Lab Supplies                                   2.7              0.4           2.3           *          5.4
(2.4)            (0.3)         (2.1)                   (4.9)
Medicines                                             22.0              1.5           3.7                     27.2
(19.8)           (1.3)         (3.3)                    (24.5)
Other Supplies                             -           7.4                            11.1                     18.5
(6.7)                         (10.0)                   (16.7)
MIS/lEC Materials                         -            5.2                            1.7                      6.9
(4.7)                          (1.6)                    (6.2)
CONSULTANCIES
Project Prepuaation & Implementation
(ie Training. Workshops. Fellowships)                                                             10.7         10.7
(10.7)      (10.7)
Insututional Development (includes
Local Consultants. Studies. Professional
Services Fees. NGO Fees)                                                                          I 8S.I       18.1
(16.3)      (16.3)
LMISCELLANEOUS
Salaris of Additional Saff                -                                                       39.3        39.3
(25.5)      (25.5)
Opeatuonal Expenditures                                                               17.8          -          17.8
(11.1)                  (11.1)
Building Maintenane                                                                               3.1          3.1
(1.)        (I.7)
Equipment Maintenance                     *                                                       7.0          7 0
(3.3)       (3.8)
Total                                        69.2         192.7             6.1          52.5         96.2        416.7
(62.3)      (166.8)            (5.5)        (42.3)      (73.3)       (350.0)
Notes:
/a 'Other' methods include Force Account. Direct Contracting and Consulting Services
/b  Figures in parenthesis are the repective amounts financed by IDA
/c  Figures may not appear to add cxacdy due to rounding






224                                                              Annex 18
Page 1 of 13
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Table 1: Project Implementation Plan
1995-96         ~~~1996-97                1997-98                  1998.9                    199940                  2000-41
* Conunsite PGB &    * Recruit project        * Recruit hospima staff    * Recruit hospitl suff    * Recruit hospital staff    * Recrit hospitl
Steering             management staff         to fil posts i           to fill posts in         to fill posts in          saff to fil posts in
Committee          * Recruit hospital staff   hospitals                hospiuls                  hospiuls                 hospitnIs
* Set-up Centrl        to bridge existing       renovated/expanded in    renovated/expanded in    renovated/expanded in    renovased/expanded
Planning CeUl a    * Rec uit tnsi     nce     the first year           the second year          the third year            in the fourth year
Engineerng wing       e                     * Recruit &  rain        * Recruit and trin        * Recruit & train        * Recruit& hain
.cngmccrs         equipment                equipment                 equipmecnteqimn
* Set-up District    * Invite tenden and           icnance
Healdh               award contact for        techaiciam               mccnicians                techniciw                  iians
Committees           civil works for fint
* Recruit key          year construction      * Invite tenders and     * Invite tenders and      * Invite tenders and     * Floa tenden for
pjec stff            progamt                  award contracts for      award conaract for        award conract for        equipping hospitls
civil works for second   civil works for third    civil works for fourth   to be
* Engage design      * Assign design works      year construction        year construction         year construction        ronvated/expantded
conrmlnts to         for second year          program                  program                   program                  in fourth year
prep re bid          conruction program
documnents for     * uioae reners for       * Assign design work     * Assign design work      * Float tenders for      * Extend
civil works                * Float tenden     for third year           for fourth year           equipping hospitals to   iipementaaoa of
civil worksequipping hospitals to        construction program     construction program     be                        providing heath
* E    afnMI           retnovated/expanded in   * Float tenders for    * Float tenders for         renovatediexpanded in    car to SCtST &
.Preparybir                          eqwpping hospqu  ls to    equipping hospitals to   fourth year              women in slecked
* Prepre bid           rm year                  be ipping bospi   tobe   be                      * Extend                   districts
documents for      * Float tenders for        renovatediexpanded in    renovated/expanded in    implemenaion of         * Conde aining of
equm          e.        spmem                   cond year              third year                prviding health care     mts and
* Set-up fwog                                                                                     to * Review  * Extend  to SC/ST & women in  pnmedical staff
SMupS for            woimplementation of                               implemenmtion of          seleced district
developing cliicl  * Develop training         referral system. QA.     providing health care m   Extend
protocols &          programs for             and health care          to SC/ST & women in    implementation of
naing modules         eqi     p       m em schemnes for SC/ST a        selected districs         referal system A QA
* Conduct               antenance               women                  * Extend                    in remaining districts
workshops on       * Conduct traLng         * Review MIS               implemenation of        * Conduct orNation
Refernl System &     courses for equipment   * Procure & inqU          referral system & QA      programs to Gram
QA                   maitenance engineers    equipment in hospitls    in selected disrict        Panchayat members to
* Conduct            * Implement                renovated in the firt    * Conduct orientadon     involve them in health
wortkbops h          Surveillance Scheme      year                     programs for Gram         case ptovams
plans for            sedctbed disqrrcus   i    Continue trining of     Panchayat members to   *Extend MIS to
lanstillanc          s Ilemetd referral      medical a                involve them in health    remsining hospitalS
surve   me             Imme     ferra         purmedical suff          care programs           * Continue training of
*  evlo  las o        sselemt  diQAc'        * Evaluate and extend    * Extend MIS to             medical and
* Develop pianat for   seleted disrncts         surveillance scheme to    eddidoOl bospitls        pramedical staff
pum WiSCtheal T       Conduct orienation      otber districts        * Conuue taining of
eame t SC/ST a       pmgnm for Gram                                    Meia  n
women                Panbayat members to                               pamUi  smff
* PCUre                involve them in health
eq                   cae popams
fihsimre.          * Procure equimeat
ebides. ec. for      and ilement MIS
con staf             an expedfn   buis
* Start train    courses
for medical officers
and puna lcal saff



225                                         Annex 18
Page 2 of 13
Table 2 West Bengal: Civil Works Implementation Plan
Activity                         Responsibility          Starting Date     Completion Date
PHASE - 1 (42 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals     Private Firms           July 95          October 95
Sites Acquisition                Not required
Topographical Surveys            Private Firms           October 95       November 95
Soil tests"                      Engineering College/    October 95       December 95
Private Firms
Recruitment of Consultants2      DOH3'                   October 95       December 95
Preliminary Designs              Private Firms           Januarv 96       March 96
Final Drawings                   Private Firms           Februarv '96     June '96
Site Development Plans           Private Firms           April '96        July '96
Cortpletion of Bid Documents     DOH, West Bengal        Mav '96          July '96
Floating of Bids                 DOH, West Bengal       July '96          October '96
Evaluation of Bids               DOH, West Bengal        September 96     December '96
Contract Signing                 DOH, West Bengal        November '96     February '97
Construction Period              Contractors            January '97       April '99
Guarantee Period                 Contractors             Januarv '99      April '2000
PHASE - 11 (54 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital      Private Firms           July 95          October 95
Sites Acquisition                Not required
Topographical Surveys            Privatc Firms           December '95     January '96
Soil tests                       Engineering             Januarv '96      March '96
College/Private Firms
Preliminarv Designs              Private Firms           February '96     April '96
Final Drawings                   Privatc Firms           April '96        September '96
Site Development Plans           Private Firms           July '96         October '96
Completion of Bid Documents      DOH, West Bengal        August '96       November '96
Floating of Bids                 DOH, West Bengal        November '96     March '97
Evaluation of Bids               DOH, West Bengal       Januarv '97       May '97
Contract Signing                 DOH, West Bengal        April '97        July '97
Construction Period              Contractors            June '97          September '99
Guarantee Period                 Contractors             June '99         September '2000
" Soil tests will be conducted on vacant lots and in coordination with preliminary layout of new extensions.
21 Recruitment of consultants to follow Bank Guidelines. During the sccond half of 1996, additional batch
of consultants will be recruited for the preparation of designs and drawings pertaining to Phases Ill & V.
3/ DOH = Departrnent of Health
N.B.: Details regarding the management and maintenance systcms for cquipment and buildings in each
statc at first referral facilities are attached to the Minutcs of Negotiation as Attachmcnt 2.



226                                    Annex 18
Page 3 of 13
Table 2 (continued)
Activity                        Responsibility         Starting date    Completion Date
PHASE - III (68 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals    Private Firms          July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms          April '96        July '96
Soil tests                      Engineering College/   April '96        July '96
Private Firms
Recruitment of Consultants      DOH                    September '96    November '96
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms          Januarv '97      April '97
Final Drawings                  Private Firmns         March '97        August '97
Site Development Plans          Private Firms          June '97         September '97
Completion of Bid Documents     DOH, West Bengal       August '97       Novemnber '97
Floating of Bids                DOH, West Bengal       October '97      January '98
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, West Bengal       December '97     March '98
Contract Signing                DOH, West Bengal       Februarv '98     May '98
Construction Period             Contractors            April '98        September '2000
Guarantee Period                Contractors            April '2000      September '2001
PHASE - IV (42 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital     Private Firms          July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Privatc Firms          August '96       November '96
Soil tests                      Engineering            August '96       Novcmber '96
College/Private Firms
Preliminarv Designs             Private Firms          May '97          October '97
Final Drawings                  Private Firms          August '97      January, '98
Site Development Plans          Private Firns          November '97    February '98
Completion of Bid Documents     DOH, West Bengal       January '98      April '98
Floating of Bids                DOH, West Bengal       March '98        July '98
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, West Bengal       May '98          September '98
Contract Signing                DOH, West Bengal       August '98       December '98
Construction Period             Contractors            October '98      March '2000
Guarantee Period                Contractors            October '2000    March '2002



227                                     Annex 18
Page 4 of 13
Table 3 Punjab: Civil Works Implementation Plan
Activity                        Responsibility         Starting Date     Completion Date
PHASE - 1 (16 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals    Private Firms          July 95           October 95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms          October 95        November 95
Soil tests"                     Private Firms          October 95        December 95
Recruitment of Consultants2'    PHSC3'                 October 95        December 95
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms          January 96        March 96
Final Drawings                  Private Firms          Fcbruary '96      June '96
Site Development Plans          Private Firms          April '96         July '96
Completion of Bid Documents     PHSC, Punjab           May '96           July '96
Floating of Bids                PHSC, Punjab           July '96          October '96
Evaluation of Bids              PHSC, Punjab           September '96     December '96
Contract Signing                PHSC, Punjab           November '96      February '97
Construction Period             Contractors            January '97       April '99
Guarantee Period                Contractors            January '99       April '2000
PHASE - 11 (38 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital     Private Firms          July 95           October 95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms          December '95      January '96
Soil tests                      Private Firms          January '96       March '96
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms          February '96     April '96
Final Drawings                  Private Firms          April '96         September '96
Site Development Plans          Private Firms          July '96          October '96
Completion of Bid Documents     PHSC, Punjab           August '96        November '96
Floating of Bids                PHSC, Punjab           November '96     March '97
Evaluation of Bids              PHSC, Punjab           January '97       May '97
Contract Signing                PHSC, Punjab           April '97         July '97
Construction Period             Contractors            June '97          September '99
Guarantee Period                Contractors            June '99          September '2000
"Soil tests will be conducted on vacant lots and in coordination %vith preliminary layout of new extensions.
21 Recruitment of consultants to follow Bank Guidelines. During the second half of 1996, additional batch
of consultants will be recruited for the preparation of designs and drawings pertaining to Phases III & V.
3i PHSC = Departmcnt of Health System Corporation



228                                     Annex 18
Page 5 of 13
Table 3 (continued)
Activity                        Responsibility         Starting date    Completion Date
PHASE - III (60 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals    Private Firms          July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition              Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms          April '96        July '96
Soil tests                     Private Firms           April '96        July '96
Recruitment of Consultants      PHSC                   September '96    November '96
Preliminary Designs            Private Firms           January '97      April '97
Final Drawings                  Private Firms          March '97        August '97
Site Development Plans          Private Firms          June '97         September '97
Completion of Bid Documents     PHSC, Punjab           August '97       November '97
Floating of Bids                PHSC, Punjab           October '97      January '98
Evaluation of Bids              PHSC, Punjab           December '97     March '98
Contract Signing                PHSC, Punjab           February '98     May '98
Construction Period             Contractors            April '98        September '2000
Guarantee Period                Contractors            April '2000      September '2001
PHASE - IV (36 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital    Private Firms           July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition              Not required
Topographical Surveys           Privatc Firms          August '96       November '96
Soil tests                     Private Firms           August '96       November '96
Preliminary Designs            Private Firms           May '97          October '97
Final Drawings                 Private Firms           August '97       January, '98
Site Development Plans         Private Firms           November '97    February '98
Completion of Bid Documents    PHSC, Punjab            January '98      April '98
Floating of Bids               PHSC, Punjab            March '98        July '98
Evaluation of Bids             PHSC, Punjab            May '98          September '98
Contract Signing                PHSC, Punjab           August '98       December '98
Construction Period            Contractors             October '98      March '2000
Guarantee Period               Contractors             October '2000    March '2002



229                                        Annex 18
Page 6 of 13
Table 4 Karnataka: Civil Works Implementation Plan
Activity                        Responsibility          Starting Date     Completion Date
PHASE - I (45 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals     Private Firms          July 95           October 95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys  *         Private Firms          October 95        November 95
Soil tests"                     Private Firms           October 95        December 95
Recruitment of Consultants2'    DOH2'                   October 95        December 95
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms           January 96        March 96
Final Drawings                  Private Firms           February '96     June '96
Site Development Plans          Private Firms           April '96        July '96
Completion of Bid Documents     DOH, Karnataka          May '96          July '96
Fl6ating of Bids                DOH, Karnataka          July '96         October '96
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, Kamataka           September '96    December '96
Contract Signing                DOH, Karnataka          November '96      February '97
Construction Period             Contractors             January '97      April '99
Guarantee Period                Contractors             January '99      April '2000
PHASE - II (53 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital     Private Firms           July 95          October 95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms           December '95      January '96
Soil tests                       Private Firms          January '96      March '96
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms           February '96     April '96
Final Drawings                  Private Firms           April '96        September '96
Site Development Plans          Private Firms           July '96         October '96
Completion of Bid Documents     DOH, Karnataka          August '96       November '96
Floating of Bids                DOH, Karnataka          November '96     March '97
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, Karnataka          January '97      May '97
Contract Signing                DOH, Karnataka          April '97        July '97
Construction Period             Contractors             June '97         September '99
Guarantee Period                Contractors             June '99          September '2000
'Soil tests will be conducted on vacant lots and in coordination with preliminary layout of new extensions.
2' Recruitmnent of consultants to follow Bank Guidelines. During the second half of 1996, additional batch
of consultants will be recruited for the preparation of designs and drawings pertaining to Phases III & V.
3'DOH = Department of Health



230                                       Annex 18
Page 7 of 13
Table 4 (continued)
Activity                        Responsibility          Starting date     Completion Date
PHASE - III (61 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospitals     Private Firms          July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition               Not required
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms           April '96         July '96
Soil tests                       Private Firms          April '96        July '96
Recruitmnent of Consultants     DOH                     September '96    November '96
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms           January '97      April '97
Final Drawings                  Private Firms           March '97        August '97
Site Development Plans          Private Firms           June '97         September '97
Completion of Bid Documents     DOH, Kamataka           August '97       November '97
Floating of Bids                DOH, Karnataka          October '97      January '98
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, Karnataka          December '97     March '98
Contract Signiing               DOH, Karnataka          February '98     May '98
Construction Period             Contractors             April '98        September '2000
Guarantee Period                Contractors             April '2000      September '2001
PHASE - IV (42 Hospitals)
Survey of Existing Hospital     Private Firms           July '95         October '95
Sites Acquisition               Not requircd
Topographical Surveys           Private Firms           August '96       November '96
Soil tests                      Private Firms           August '96       November '96
Preliminary Designs             Private Firms           May '97          October '97
Final Drawings                  Privatc Firms           August '97       January, '98
Sitc Development Plans          Private Firms           November '97     February '98
Completion of Bid Documents      DOH, Kamataka          January '98      April '98
Floating of Bids                DOH, Kamataka           March '98        July '98
Evaluation of Bids              DOH, Karnataka          May '98          September '98
Contract Signing                DOH, Karnataka          August '98       December '98
Construction Period             Contractors             October '98      March '2000
Guarantee Period                Contractors             October '2000    March '2002



Table 5: State Health Systems 11 Civil Works Implementation Plan
5   1996    1 1997    1   1998    1 1999    1 2000    j 2001    1 2
ID  Task Name                   Duration     start       Flnlsh    3    04  102 1031041Q4102103|1041Q1102103 104 101|Q2Q3|104 1 Q 12 10310Q41011021Q3IQ4 lQ 1|Q2
1   PHASE I Civil Works (Hos      1235d      7117195      4H7100        SE I Clvii Works (Hospitals In this Phas: WIB. -42 Karl 1235d
2     Survey of existing Hospita    14w      7/17/95    10/20/95 ESi  urvy Of existing Hospitals
3     Sites Acquisition (not Req     Id    10/23/95    10123/95      I
________ _______ ________   ______ ____  ___ ______     Sites  Acquisition   (not  Reqd)I
4     Topographical Surveys          4w     10/24/95    11/20/95    [ ropographical Sureys 
5     Soils Tests                   12w      10/V195    12/22/95       SOIlS Tests
6     Recruitment of Consultant     12W      10/2/95    12/22/95
F,IRecruitment of Consultants
-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7     Preliminary designs           12W     12i2S95      3/15/96      E   Prellminary designs
8     Final drawings                20w      3/11/96     7/26196      I__           dw          I
F20  Finai drawings
9     Site Development Plans        16w       5/6/96     8/23/96            16 Site Development Plans
10     Completion of Bid Docum       12w       6/3/96     8/23/96            Cj Completion of Bid Documents
1 1    Tendering of Bids             16w      7/29196    11/15/96               16 Tendering of Bids                                    |
12     Evaluation of Bids           16w       9/30/96     1/17/97                 4   Evaluation of Bids
13     Contract Signing             16w      11125/96     3/14/97                   16 Contract Signing
14     Construction Period         118w        1/6/97      4/9/99                     118w                        | Construction Period
15     Guarantee Period             64w       1/18199      4t7/00                                                               G          I
164wI Guarantee Period               I
16   PHASE II Clvil Works (Ho      1360d      7/17/95     9129/00  -     SEII Civil orks (Hospit          this    W.B.-54,
P AE 1Cii   ok  HoptasInti Pha e; W..-5,Karnatak~ 1360d
17     Survey of existing Hospita   14w       7117/95    10/20/95  1i  UveY of existing Hospitals
18     Sites Acquisition (not Req     Id    10/23/95    10/23/95      IleS Acquisition (not Reqd)
19     Topographical Surveys         4w       12/1/95    12/28/95       Topographical Suveys
20     Soils Tests                   10w       1/1/96      3)8/96       I1 Soils Tests
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I
INI DIA: State Health Sys tems 11                                 _ _  Task              IPsF 'rogress                                                                 (oQ
CIVIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                         Ciia  akl___ ISmay +-   
1 1/21/95



Table 5: State Health Systems 11 Civil Works Implementation Plan (continued)
5        1996       1 199711998                  1999         2000         2001         2
ID  Task Name                    Duration     Start      Finish    01Q  Q1JQ20Q3Q4Q10Q20Q3Q401  234  Q210034 Q  103 IQ2|Q3Q4  01020304  012
21     Preliminary designs           12w        2/5/96     4/26196           I        I
___________________________  !_______  __________  _______   _        I  1j   Prelim inary   designs  1
22     Final drawings                24w        4/8/96     9/20/96          i    I  I              |            I            Ii!
124WI Flnal drawings
23     Site Development Plans        16W        7/8/96    10/25/96             1161 Sile Development Plans
24     Completion of Bid Docum       16w       8/12196    11/29/96       I            C
161 Completiof Bid Documents
25     Tenderingof Bids              19w      11/18/96     3/28/97                    !
Lis 19  Tendering of Bids
26     Evaluation of Bids            20w       1/13/97     5/30/97
______  |_____   20    Evaluation of Bids
27     Contract Slgning              15w      4/14/97      7/25/97                        I     Contract Signing
28     Construction Period          118W        6/9197     9/10/99                          iC                                  ri
1    |118W                | ~~~~Construction Period
29     Guarantee Period              68w      6/14/99      9/29100                    I
.                                              I           ~      ~     ~~~~~~          ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I |68W  |  Guarantee Period
30   PHASE lil Civil Works (Ho     1620d      7/17/95      9/28/01       * SE Il Cii Wok
30   PHASE III Ctvll Works (Ho     1620d      71117195     912810i    P RASE III Civil Works (Hospitals In this Phase; W.B. - 68, Karnataka - 61, Punjab    1620d
31     Survey of existing Hospita    14w      7/17/95    10/20/95  _-4  Il  I                      i            I
1  Survey of existing Hospitals
32     Sites Acquisition (not Req      Id    10/23/95    10/23/95        ites Acquisition (not Reqdl
33     Topographical Surveys          4w      4/10/96       5/7/96                    I
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~____                                                    0 TopographIcal Surveys
34     Soils Tests                   10w      4/10/96      6/18196
______ _____ _____ _____ _   ___ ____   _ _____ __   __ _____ __  fj   Soils     Tests
35     Recruitment of Consultant     16w        9/2/96    12/20/96                 1  R     i       o C
f 16 Recruitment of Consultants
36     Preliminary designs           12W       1/20/97     4/11/97                                 I
[3 Preliminary designs
37     Final drawings                20w      3/24/97       8/8/97                             Final drawings
38     Site Development Plans        14w      6/23/97      9/26/97                           1  Site Development Plans
39     Completion of Bid Docum       16w        814197    11/21/97                             1  C
FI6- Completion of Bid Documen ts
40     Tendering of Bids             16w     10/13/97      1/30/98                                   Tendering of Bids
to
* >
INDIA: State Health Systems 11                                           Task             I          IProgress  3
LCIVIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATION PLAN|CrtclTsIISumy |. 



Table 5: State Hlealth Systems 11 Civil Works Implementation Plan (continued)
95    1   1996        '1997    1   1998    1   1999    1   2000    1   2001    1   2
ID  Task Name                   Duration     Start      Finish   QQ41 1 102103lQ4 0102030Q40Q1 1Q2lQ31 QOQ IQ2lQ3lQ4lQl 002lQ3lQ41Q0 IQ2lQ3lQ4 ll IQ2
41     Evaluation of Bids           16w      1218/97     3/27/98                   I            ,                         ; B
_________________________  _____  _____ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                     151   Evaluation  of Bids
42     Contract Signing             16w       2/2/98     5/22/98                                  1   C
b 1 l ~161 Contract Signing
43     Construction Period         130w       4/6/98     9/29/00                   I               - j
130w                           Construction Period
44     Guarantee Period             78w       4/3/00     9/28/01
I_________________  _______  __ _        I78w                Guarante
45   PHASE IV Civil Works (Ho    1733d       7117/95      3/6102                          _
45   P                                                           t  PHASE IV Civil Works (Ho    1733d   7195  3/6/02  SE IV Civil Works (Hospitals in this Phase; W.B. - 42, Karnataka - 42 Punjab -36)     1
46     Survey of existing Hospita   14w      7/17/95    10/20/95  14j urvey of existing Hospitals
47     Sites Acquisition (not Req     Id    10/23/95    10/23/95      *ites Acquisition (not Reqd)
48     Topographical Surveys         4w      8/12/96      9/6/96                T
Topographical Surveys
49     Soils Tests                  lOw      8/12/96    10/18/96                  S    Tests
50     Preliminary designs          20w      5/15/97     10/1/97                        [      P
_20.1 Preliminary designs                     .            .       
51     Final drawings               24w       8/7/97     1/21/98                   I                                      i           I
|24w  Final drawings          !..
52     Site Development Plans       14w      11/6/97     2/11/98                                             i S
_                                               l                      5@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Site Development Plans
53     Completion of Bid Docum      16w       1/1/98     4/22/98                                 1
F161 Completion of Bid Documents
54     Tendering of Bids            16w      3/12/98      7/1/98                                                         : T  o
r161 Tendering of Bids-
55     Evaluation of Bids           20w      5/14/98     9/30/98
Fio-wl Evaluation of Bids
56     Contract Signing             20w       8/6/98    12/23/98                                                         - [wCtcSn
_                                    l      l            l                     i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Contract SIgning
57     Construcdion Period         128w      10/8/98     3/21/01                                           1 8                            Construction Pe
58     Guarantee Period             74w      10/5/00      3/6/02                                                                  [F-Ii477  GJ
to
CIVLWORKS IMPLEMENTATION PLAN|TSkIuma
CML WORKS IMPLEMENTATION PLAN | ~~~~Critical Task I                              ISummary <1 
11/21/95~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 



Annex 18
234                                                    Page 11 of 13
Table 6: Recruitment Plan
Recruitment of Project Management Staff
Strategic Planning Cell
Project Management Project Office
District Project Office
District Engineering Division
Recruitment of Project Manpower
Preparatory Works                                          1llilHlllIIzl |
Finalizabon of Recruitment Rules                                  I   l
Arrangement for Recruitments
Recruitment for 112 Begins                                                 E
Recruitment for 1 12 Complete
Joining of 112 Staff                                                                SI
Recrubment for Next 288 Begins
Recrubment for Next 288 Complete                                                             [
Joining of Next 288 Staff
Recruitment Process Starts for 579 Staff
Recruitment for 579 Staff Completed                                                                           [j.
Joining of 579 Staff Completed
Recruitment of Next 584 Staff Starts
Recruitment process for 584 Staff Completed
Joining of 584 Staff Completed                                                                                                ..



235                                                        Annex 18
Page 12 of 13
Table 7: Implementation Plan for Software Activities'
1996        1997             1998            1999             2000             2001
03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04
Quality Assurance
Interaction & Policy Decision - GA Committee   |
GA Working Groups                               EWI
Pilot Testing in 2 Districts                            IlIlIl?llIIifI!I,IIr*1alhI
Evaluation of Pilot Sites                         _Ei
Development of GA Guideline                    Uit IffiliiWihI
OA Training                                                              *   >.:      I M*ivlltiu'uItliUPti WuwNIUV
State Wide Implementabon                           j                      Sr  Prhtit i filth'                       _
Referral System
Interaction & Policy Decision
Issuance of Referral Guidelines
Preparaton of IEC Materials          .            _   .
Preparation of Referral Materials             flt;'iiilw._
Holting referal Workshops                    l  'IUII!PIM lNh itWMg Iibl1SM         iI Wh'W                                  _
Development of District Health ComnmitteeI
Holding Referal Training                            1*pam N                                No        m
Dissemination of Referral Materials                                _                _
i_                  _ _     I  _ _      _  I  _   _      _  
IEC Actvibes                                          al inl   EW              SI P                              _
Clinical Training
Cumhicubm Development
Modules Development
Tralning of Trainen
Training of Specialists                                    *        01a                  i a          m     n          iliu_
TrainiN of Gen" Dloctsand MBBS.                             . _ _O       1                  2           O           .    O    lD
Training of Nunes                                                    0 0       [       ]1        l               1     1 
Traing of othe Techninoms                              .                              DOD               O       O l1
Development of Distance Leaming Package                      _                               .n.a 
Felowship                                   _         j U    0                         0   U            H   U           I   0
Agreed service. equipment and staffing norms for first referral facilities were developed at workshops held in each state.
They are attached to the Minutes of Negotiation as Attachments I and 4.



236                                                          Annex 18
Page 13 of 13
Table 7: Implementation Plan for Software Activities (continued)
Surveillance & HMIS
Development of Cards/Forms                                                                                                    _    .
Development of Guidelines                      EM'. uw..
Dissemination of Cards & Guidelines            "llIiUWUliHIlhhhhhl_
Training                                                                     A.ll h%WflluiljijI
Establishment of Distict Surveillance Unit            '    3h|I=
Provision of Computers                                          __                     p                                      ._ _;    _   _
Implementaton                                                          MnDflnn'sIN IMIM  H       rniuttuwi  lWti nmmiuI
Medical Waste Management
interaction of Policy Decsion on Waste Managemen  otir-'r||
Development of Guidelines for Hospitls                             _   I            _                 _                     |__
Training                                                                                 I .                ftji 5,,r,i                      1
Provision of matenals (bags. containers, etc)                          MUUtSUI i
Implementabon at Hospitals                                             A MUlliplM    * S                  U A_ Wi l4     I-
Development of Guidelines for Primary Care Facaitie                    T                 I                  _               I
Implementabon at Primary Care Facilibes                             I       MiA Sll =m             _        






PERFORMANCE INDICATORS'
Table 1: Physical Completion Targets
Hospital Upgradation
Hospital         Bils Advertised       s     Bids Evaluated        %    Contracts Signed         %     Constnucion St n      S      Physical Completion     %     No. of Beds
u pgradauion                                _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ __                      _ _ _                                        _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _                         _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _
Plaknned    Actual         Planrned    Actua            Planned    Actual            Planned    Acrual            Planned     Actual            Baseine       Planned    Actual
Phase I
Distfiel
Subdivisiona
Community/
Ruali
Phase II
Oisamet
Subdivisional
Commusnity/                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
Rufal
Phase III
District 
Subdivisional
Comnmnityl
Phase TV
District
Subdivisional
Cotuwmisty)
Rural
Baseline data from each state arc availablc on rile.



Table 2: Physical Completion Targets
Staff Quarters
Staff Quaners        Bids Advertized      S     Bids Evaluated        -    Conaracu Signed         %    Consumction Stan       %    Physical Completion      %    No. of Staff Quaners
(new   &   upgraded)   _ _ _                     _  _  __                                 _  _                        _  _            _   _  __                      _   _  _   _  _  _      _  _
Plannud    Acuad          Pnned    Act           -     Planned    Actual           Planned    Actual            Planned     Actual           Baselinc      Planned    Actual
Phase I
Type I
Type II
Type Ill
Type IV
Type   V_ _               __                                                              __ _              _     _ _   __                          __               _   _
Phase II
Type I
Type II
Type ID
T,ype IV                                                                                                                                                                                                           00
Type I
Type II
Type Ill
Type IV
Type V__                                                                                    __            _   _     _   _
Phase Nv
Type I1
Type II
Type IV
Type V__ __ _
Kanatka has dimue types of staff qu rs; Wes Bengal has five.
>
CD DO



239                                        Annex 19
Page 3 of 10
Table 3: Hospital Activity Indicators
Baseline      Previous      Current        Percent Change     Percent Change
Current/Previous    Current,Baseline
1. Bed Capacity
2. Cumulative inpatient days during
past 6 months
3. Admissions during past 6 months
4. Outpatient consultations (new and
repeat)
5. Turnover rate
6. Bed occupancy rate
7. Average length of stay
8. Outpatient per bed day                             ==.



240                                        Annex 19
Page 4 of10
Table 4: Hospital Efficiency Indicators
Baseline      Previous      Current         Percent Change     Percent Change
Current/Previous   Current/Baseline
Clinical Services
# of major surgeries
% of major surgeries to admission
# of deliveries
% of deliveries to admission
Emergencv Service Index
Emergency OP ratio'
Emergency entry ratio2
Diagnostic Services
# of imaging and electro medical tests
% of imaging and electro medical test
to admission
# of laboratory test
% of laboratory test to admission
Non Clinical Services
# of post-mortems
% of post-mortems to admission
% of post-operative case fatality
% of infection acquired in the hospital
(nosocomial infection)
# of referred cases received
# of cases referred to other hospitals
Emergency outpatient ratio is the ratio of emergency outpatients to total outpatients.
2 Emergency entry ratio is the ratio of admissions during emergency hours to total admissions.



241                                                        Annex 19
Page 5 of 10
Table 5: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
| Baselme                       Previous                       Current
Inpaterie  walong tme (mm)
Outpaaent wattLog nime (min)
Patient sadsfaicuon with doctors and other medical
staff ratng (scaile of 1-7)
Patient saasfacton with services offered ratng
(scale of 1-7)
Padent satisfacton with facilites available rating
(scale of 1-7)
Hospitl cleanliness raing (scale of 1-7)
Qualiry Assurance Program
I of disciplines that have implemenred QA in DH
J of indicators implemented
% of isiveseiganons compleied
% of remedial icnons reported
[EC
% of $ spe"I against targets for matenals
% of awareness among target groups of first referral
services
% awaeness among tnbal population of scrvices
provided
% awareness of services available imongst target groups
in Sudarbans area
% awareness of services available iaongst SC/ST
popul oons un Kraroa
% awareness of user charges among oupatients
% awareness of user cbarges among inpatents
% awareness among doctors of referral sysem:
PHC to commucuty bospitals
Conmmunity bopitals to sub-divisional hospitas
Sub-divisional bospials to distrct hospitls



242                                                    Annex 19
Page 6 of 10
Table 5 (continued)
Baselinc                    [ Previous                    | Currcnt
MIS
% of insrirurions where srwadardzed system is sntroducel
I of supervisory reports based on MIS daca reccived from
hospimtls
Cost Recoverv
N of beds delineated as paying beds (only DH & SDH)
% of beds delineated as paying beds io total beds at
facility (only DH & SDH)
Amount of money recovered from paying beds
Amount of money recovered from other charges
Amount of money collected from outpatent fee
Amount of money received from distnct level as a share of
|colected amount



Table 6: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
Selective Few Instruments
Furniture, Equipment and Other Appliances
Type of Hospital     Type of       No. Proposed to    No. Purchased/   No. Installed &  % Provided as
Equipment,       be Installed       Supplied      Operationalized     per Norm
Furniture and
Other Appliances
DH   |       (l)       l     ~~~~~(2\           (3)              (4\                                (6(\  
DH              l|
SDH                                       i
CH/RH                                     i)
PHC/BPHC                                  i)
o- -
0O\O



Table 7: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
Availability of Drugs
Type of Drug               No. of Institutions with Adequate Quantities of Drugs             Total
as per Requisition
(1)                                           (2)                                        (3)
Below 50% of Requisitions:
DlI        SDH           CH/RH          Pi IC/I3PI IC
1. Essential Drugs                                                                                                         l
2. Emergency Drugs                                        .
3. Others
50-75% of Requisitions:
DH         SDH           CHIRH          Pi lC/BPHC
1. Essential Drugs                    ._._.-
2. Emergency Drugs                                                                                .-
3. Others
Above 75% of Requisition:
DH          SDH          Cli/RH         PHC/BPHC
I. Essential Drugs                                                                                   ._|
2. Emergency Drugs
3. Others                                                                 _
CrQ >
oo m
00 s



Table 8: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
Availability of Staff (DH, SDH and CHI/RH)
Category of Staff           No. Sanctioned Under the               No. Appointed               % Provided as per Norm
Project
(1)                              (2)                              (3)
1. Doctors
2. Nurses
3. Grotip - C                                      .
4. Group - D                                                                                                                    --J
Table 9: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
Maintenance of Equipment, Furniture, OT (DH, SDH and CH/RH)
Type of Equipment,                Number Installed             No. in Working Condition             % Not Functioning
Furniture, OT & Other
Accessories
2.
3 .                             1.                               1__
vorb
o4.



Table 10: Quality, Access and Effectiveness Indicators
Training
Type of Training Course    No. of Training    No. of Courses Held   No. of Courses Held   No. of Persons       No. of Persons
Course Sanctioned    During the Quarter    Since Inception      Proposed to be       Proposed to be
Trained During the     Trained Since
Quarter             Inception
(X)                    (2)                 (3)                  (4)                  (5)                  (6)
1. Clinical
2. Management                                               _                                                                   l
3. IEC
4. MIES
5. Maintenance
6. Refcrral                                            .
7. Waste Management                         .__                                   __  _
No, of Targeted Persons   No. of Targeted       Percentage of
Trained During the      Persons Trained     Targeted Workers
Quarter            Since Inception       Trained Since
Inception
(7)                    (8)                 (9)
o 3
o b
- -
o 'o



247                                       Annex 20
Page 1 of 4
SUPERVISION PLAN
General Routine Supervision
1.     The core of the routine supervision process will be the six-monthly Bank supervision missions. An
indispensable basis for this will be the six-monthly progress report to be submitted by the Health Systems
Corporation in Punjab and the Department of Health and Family Welfare in Karnataka and West Bengal. Because
of the commonality of the program in the states of Kamataka, Punjab and West Bengal as well as that of Andhra
Pradesh under the First Referral Health Systern Project, every effort will be made to coordinate the developme-nt of
the projects in the four states and to encourage the states to share their implementation experience. During project
preparation, the initiative taken by the Union Ministry of Health to bring the states together worked very well. This
process should continue to be fostered during the implementation period as well. This will result in considerable
cross-fertilization of implementation experience across the project states and learning from each other. The Bank
supervision team can play a key role in facilitating this process. This process will also result in substantial cost
savings of supervising a project of this size since we can eliminate a number of repetitious tasks in each state.
2. -   Mission Fre[uencv. Scheduling, Proarams.  Regular Bank supervision missions will visit the project
approximately every six months. Thus if the project is launched in May-June 1996, supervision missions would be
scheduled between October-November, 1996 and between April-May, 1997. Apart from two main rnissions during
the first year of implementation, a number of other interventions may be necessary from our side, including short
visits to the states to facilitate project start-up. In subsequent years, we would be back to a two-mission a year
scheduled as noted above.
3.     On each supervision mission the project coordinators in Karnataka, Punjab and West Bengal will present a
six-monthly progress report on the status of implementation for review and discussion. The Chief Engineer of the
construction wing of the Health Department in Kamataka and West Bengal and the Health Systems Corporation in
Punjab will also make presentations about the progress of civil works component to be incorporated in an overall
progress report. The Secretary, and in his absence, the Additional/Joint Secretary of the Department of Health and
Family Welfare will update the mission on thc progress on policy issues of the project.
4.     Each supervision mission will include field trips visiting a sample of diffcrent district, subdivisional, and
rural/conmmunity hospitals. The mission will be appropriately staffed as discussed below. Tribal areas in Kamataka
and West Bengal will be visited at least once every year which will include a tribal specialist who will visit a sample
of project sites and facilitate the six monthly supervision missions.
5.     Composition of Missions. The missions will be led by the Bank task manager and will include as
appropriate at the time, specialists in hospital management, public health, hospital equipment matters, economics,
general management training, [EC and tribal issues, HMIS, surveillance and medical waste management. Specialists
may also visit the states separately and individually by prior arrangement between the task manager and the Health
Systems Corporation in Punjab and the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare in Kamataka and West
Bengal. In addition, required specialists in other areas may occasionally be included in missions as needed.
6.     Additional Missions. In addition to the above, the task manager may visit the three states with or without
specialist colleagues, in between routine supervision missions as needed for trouble-shooting or emergencies, or
during the first year of the project in order to help ensure that project implementation gets off to a smooth start. The
task manager may also, by prior arrangement with the concemed agencies in the states, authorize individual
specialists to make separate between-mission visits. Every effort will be made during supervision missions to link the
supervision of activities in other Health and Family Welfaie projects in the states which are interlinked with this



248                                         Annex 20
Page 2 of 4
project. Supervision of other projects may also be requested to follow-up on selected activities of State Health II
based on the concept of state-based supervision.
7.     Supervision of Policy Reforms: Six monthly supervision will monitor compliance of the Policy Reform
program. An econormist and a managernent/instrituional specialist will be assigned responsibility during supervision
rmissions to monitor compliance and progress on policy matters.
8.     Supervision of Software Aspects: In addition to the technical specialists that will accompany the Bank
supervision team as appropriate, contacts have been established with the WHO tearn in Delbi to assist in the
supervision of the technical aspects of the project. The Bank team will continue to bring in experts in the areas of
public health, hospital and equipment management, IEC, HMIS, surveillance and waste management.
9.     Special Arrangements for Civil Works. The civil works component is complex and costly and covers more
than 201 hospitals in Karnataka, 150 hospitals in Punjab and 170 hospitals in West Bengal of varying sizes in
addition to 28 PHCs and 8 Block PHCs in West Bengal. It therefore cannot be adequately supervised in the field by
an architect visiting twvice a year for a couple of weeks. A pyrarmidal, locally-based system of field monitoring for
this .component will therefore supplement the supervision arrangements described above. In addition, the civil works
component will be covered by a special extra system of locally based supervision undertaken by the construction
wing of the implementing agency in each state. There will be three layers, as follows:
(a)    The first layer will be the maintenance of a civil works archive in the Human Resources Unit of the
Bank's Delhi office, under the day-to-day supervision of one of the staff members. The
implementing agencies in the three states will send to this archive particulars of each hospital for
renovation and extension for which construction will be undertaken. This will include final as-built
drawings and contracts entered into for renovations and extensions.
(b)    The second layer will consist of local consultant architects who will report to the project task
manager and will:
(i)    review new arrivals in the archives once a month or oncc every two months as necessary
depending on the volume of arrivals, and screen them for any departures from criteria or
other features agreed upon at appraisal;
(ii)    in some cases, just prior to the regular Bank supervision missions and under a briefing
from the mission leader, visit the state to: (a) discuss cases departing from criteria set out
in the technical manual with the Chief Engineer of the Construction Wing and the Project
Coordinators in each state; and (b) make site visits to an appropriate sample of district,
subdivisional and rural/cornmunity hospitals departing from criteria;
(iii)    after these visits, report findings to the Project Coordinator and Chief Engineer and to the
regular mission architect at the start of the supervision rmission, as well as filing a report of
the findings in the project archives.
(c)    The third layer will consist of the regular supervision missions. At the start of each mission, the
rmission architect will review the reports of the local architect consultants and discuss them with the
implementing agencies. The architect will then make site visits, in the state visited by the mission,
to any identified problem buildings plus a random sample, drawn by him/her, of the buildings
reviewed by the local consultants during the previous six months.



249                                        Annex 20
Page 3 of 4
10.    Six-Monthly Project Progress Report: This Wi,1 report on the Performance Indicators highlighted in Annex
22. Corresponding computer software may be provided to the implementing agencies for use in report preparation.
The format will be followed as is for the first year of the project. It will then be evaluated by the implementng
agencies in time for the third supervision mission, discussed at the joint meeting, and revised as necessary by
agreement between the implementing agencies and the mission team.
The Mid-Term Project Review
11.    The Mid-Term Review of project progress will be carried out by an IDA mission and the implementing
agencies in the three states, with a separate sub-review by the Department of Health and Family Welfare for Punjab,
and submitted to IDA approximately halfway through the project period; if the project is launched in mid-1996, this
point would be approximately July 1999. The entire reView process should take two to three months. The findings of
the reviev would then be discussed during the next regular supervision mission. This mission would first hold a
general meeting with implementing agencies as well as the Department of Health and Family Welfare in Punjab to
discuss the findings of the Review.
12..   The principal aim of the Mid-Term Review Will be to determine if there are any major problems or issues in
the project which necessitate re-thinking the original project design and making mid-course corrections. It also may
be used for a preliminary evaluation of the impact of the project, if the project has progressed sufficiently to expect
any impact.
13.    The Mid-Term Review will consist of an intemal stocktaking from the project records and MIS of the
progress of project activities as measured against the original program and time schedule set out in the SAR and
Implementation Plan (see Annex 21) plus optimal additional parts as appropriate. Notes should be included on the
status of fulfillment of project agreements and covenants, on the results of the evaluation of a management reviewv,
project's policy refbrms aspects such as cost recovery policies, and on progress with the strategies for improving
services to tribal groups. The stocktaking may also include indicators of the burdcn of disease and epidermiology.
14.    A final Mid-Term Review Report will be submitted to IDA and discussed with the following supervision
mrission. It should highlight any major problems, issues, bottlenecks or delays in the project execution and the
prospects for resolving them and completing the project on time.
15.    The Mid-Term  Review may be extended beyond those issues discussed above if this is considered
appropriate and useful. The implementing agencies would decide upon the full review content, in consultation with
IDA, at the beginning of planning for the review. Further elements of the review could include:
(a)    a managemnent review of the organizational structure in each state;
(b)    a repeat of the beneficiary social assessment and training needs carried out as part of project
preparation;
(c)    special in-depth evaluative studies of the private health sector, workforce issues etc.;
(d)    reviews of project progress by an extemal agency. However, this would be at the discretion of the
implementing agencies.



250                                    Annex 20
Page 4 of 4
Role of the Resident Mission
16.    The human resources group of the New Delhi office has been strengthened to carry out an increasing share
of the supervision work for human resources projects in India. This group will play an important role in this project.
First, our senior public health adviser in Delhi mnay be asked to foUlow-up on fundamental issues. Our local public
health specialist in Delhi vill help monitor the project on a regular basis, follow-up on key implementation issues,
and trouble shoot in the field, as needed. He/she will be assisted by a local staff speciaizing in the administration of
projects. Procurement issues and guidance will be handled by the Delhi Office Procurement and Accounting Group.
That same group will handle accounting, auditing, disbursement, and flow of funds issues. These actions will be part
of the overall supervision program noted above.



251                                          Annex 21
Page 1 of 1
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
Table 1: Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
Expenditures              Disbursements /b        Cumuliative       Semester
as % of     From Appraisal
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester  Cumulative         Semester  Cumulative /c       Total             Date
-U------------------------ $US Million -------------------------------
FY97
Ist (Jul 96 - Dec 96) /a         22.8         22.8             5.0             5.0        1%                I
2nd (Jan 97 - Jun 97)            22.8         45.6            19.5            24.5        7%                2
FY98
Ist (Jul 97 - Dec 97)            44.1         89.7            19.5           44.1        13%               3
2nd (Jan 98- Jun 98)             44.1        133.7            38.4            82.4       24 %              4
FY99
lst (Jul 98 - Dec 98)            55.6        189.3            38.4           120.8       35%               5
2nd (Jan 99 - Jlun 99)           55.6        244.9            47.5           168.3       48%                6
FY2000
Ist (Jul 99 - Dec 99)            49.1        294.0            47.5          215.8        62%               7
2nd (Jan 2000 - Jun 2000)        49.1        343.1            40.2           255.9       73%                8
FY2001
Ist (Jul 2000 - Dec 2000)        36.8        379.9            40.2          296.1        85%               9
2nd (Jan 2001 - Jun 2001)        29.4        409.3            26.9           323.1       92%               10
FY2002
Ist (Jul 2001 - Dec 2001)         7.4        416.7            21.6          344.6        98%               11
2nd (Jan 2002 - Mar 2002)                         -            5.4           350.0       100%              11
Closing Date: March 31, 2002
a/: Including Special Account and Retroactive Financing
b/: Figures may not appear to add due to rounding
c/: Disbursement projections take into account the Regional Profiles for similar type projects






252                                  Annex 22
Page 1 of 2
DOCUMEENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Project Proposal: Karnataka Health Systems Development Project; January 1995.
Project Proposal: Karnataka Health Systems Development Project; July 1995.
Project Proposal: Karnataka Health Systems Development Project; September, 1995.
Project Proposal: Punjab Health Systems Development Project; January 1995.
Project Proposal: Punjab Health Systems Development Project; July 1995.
Project Proposal: Punjab Health Systems Development Project; September, 1995.
Project Proposal: West Bengal Health Systems Development Project; January 1995.
Project Proposal: West Bengal Health Systems Development Project; July 1995.
Project Proposal: West Bengal Health Systems Development Project; September, 1995.
Proceedings of Workshop on Norms for Hospital Services and Facilities, Karmataka. Department of
Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka; 1995.
Proceedings of Workshop on Norms for Hospital Services and Facilities, West Bengal. Department of
Health and Family Welfare, Punjab; 1995.
Proceedings of Workshop on Norms for Hospital Services and Facilities, Punjab. Department of
Health and Family Welfare, West Bengal; 1995.
Proceedings of Workshop on Strengthening Secondary Level Hospital Services. Department of Health
and Family Welfare, West Bengal; Calcutta; 1995.
Proceedings of Workshop on Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care
Services. Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Jaipur; 1995.
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project 11, Back-to-Office Report;
November, 1994.
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project II, Back-to-Office Report;
March, 1995.
IDA Preparation Mission: State Health Systems Development Project II, Back-to-Office Report; June,
1995.
IDA Preappraisal Mission: State Health Systems Development Project II, Back-to-Office Report;
August, 1995.



253                                  Annex 22
Page 2 of 2
IDA Appraisal Mission: State Health Systems Development Project II, Aide-Memoire, October, 1995.
Karnataka: Site Survey of First Referral Hospitals.
Punjab: Site Survey of First Referral Hospitals.
West Bengal: Site Survey of First Referral Hospitals.
Beneficiary Needs Assessment in Karnataka. ASCI; 1995.
Review of the Private Sector in Health Care in Karnataka. ASCI; 1995.
Beneficiary Needs Assessment in Puniab. Foundation for Research and Development of
Underprivileged Groups (FRDUG); 1995.
Review of the Private Sector in Health in Puniab. FRDUG; 1995.
Beneficiary Needs Assessment in West Bengal. Operations Research Group (ORG); 1995.
Review of the Private Sector in Health in West Beneal. ORG; 1995.
Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Study in Andhra Pradesh. The Administrative Staff College
of India (ASCI); 1995.






IMAGING
Report No:       15106 IN
Type: SAR



