Doctumt of
The World Bank
FOR OmcLG USE ONWY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                 10200
Report No. 10200-GUI Type: PCR)
RIDKER, P / X31757 / T-9017/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION .EPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI)
DECEMBER 17, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
I Tbist       fttes h ft * otnt  a nlot 'and m2y be aed b  epe =s only
i__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tewi ed.e   .1 h ef



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ACRONYMS
ACDI               Agence canadienne de d6velonnem.nt international
Canadian International Development Agency
BND                Buduet National de D6veloyi. ament
National Development Budget
CFP                Centre de Formation Profeesionnelle (anciennement IPS)
Vocational Training Center (formerly IPS)
DCTP               Division de la Coop26r&  on Technigue et des Prof ets
(anciennement DPCS)
Technical Cooperation and Projects Division (iormerly
DPCS)
DEF                Division de l'Education et de la Formation
Education and Training Division
DETFP              Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle (anciennement DNETP)
Technical Education and Vocational Training Directorate
(formerly DNETP)
DGPE               Direction G6n6rale de la Planification de l'Education
Education Planning Directorate
DGT                Direction G6n6rale du Travail
Labor Directorate
DNETP              Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Techniaue et
Professionnel
Technical and Vocational Education Directorate
DPCS               Direction des Proiets et des Constructions Scolaires
(anciennement DPE)
School Construction and Projects Directorate (formerly
DPE)
DPE                Direction des Projets Education
Education Projects Directorate
DSPE               Direction de la Statistique et de la Planification de
1'Education
Education Statistics and Planning Directorate
DTS                Droit de tiraae sn4cial
Special Drawing Right
ENI                Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs/Institutrices
Primary Teacher Training College
ENSET              Ecole Normale Secondaire d'Enseignement Technigue
(anciennement ISFORPET)
Technical Teacher Training College (formerly ISFORPET)
FAC                Ponds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
French Fund for Aid and Cooperation
FAD                Ponds africain de d6velopnement
African Development Funds
FG                 Franc  _uin6en
Guinean Franc
FSD                Fonds saoudien your le d6velonpement
Saudi Fund for Development
IDA                Association internationale de d6veloTpement
International Development Association
IDEC               Imprimerie de l'Education ec de la Culture
Educational Printing Office



IPN                Inatitut PMdaxogigue National
National Pedagogic Institute
IPS                Institut Polvtechnioue Secondaire
Vocational Training Institute
ISFORPET           Institut Sup6rieur de Formation des Profeaseurs de
1'Enseignement Technique
Technical Instructor Training Institute
MEN                Minist4re de l'Education Nationale
Ministry of Education
MENESRS            Ministare de l'Education Nationale charR4 de l'EnseiRnement
Sup6rieur et de la Recherche Scientifique (anciennement
MESRS)
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(formerly MESRS)
MEPU               Minist4re de l'Enseienement Pr6-Universitaire et de
1'Alphab6tisation
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Literacy
MESRS              Minist6re de l'Enseipnement Sun6rieur et de la Recherche
Scientifiaue
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
METMFP             Minist4re de l'EnseiRnement Technique Moven et de la
Formation Professionnelle
Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
MPCI               Minist4re du Plan et de la Coop6ration Internationale
(anciennement MPS)
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
(formerly MPS)
MPS                Minist6re du Plan et de la Statistiaue
Ministry of Planning and Statistics
ONEM.O             Office National de l'Emploi et de la Main-d'Oeuvre
National Employment and Manpower Agency
ONFPP              Office National de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnel
National Vocational Training Agency
PASE               Programme d'Aiustement Sectoriel de l'Education
Education Sector Adjustment Program
PIB                Produit int6rieur brut
Gross Domestic Product
PNUD               Programme des Nations Unies pour le D6veloPRement
United Nations Development Program
PTA                Professeur Technique Adioint
Assistant Technical Instructor
RAP                Rapport d'ach4vement du proiet
Project Completion Report
SRL                Rival
Saudi Arabian Riyal
SCTP               Service de la Coop6ration Technique et des Proiets
(anci~ennment DCTP)
Technical Cooperation and Projects Office (formerly DCTP)
SEEPU              Secr6tariat d'Etat i l'EnseiRnement Pr6-Universitaire
(anciennement MEPU)
Secretariat of State for Pre-7Vniversity Education
(formerly MEPU)



SSPE              Service de la Statistigue et de la Planification de
1'Education (anciennement DSPEI
Education Statistics and Planning Office (formerly DSPE)
UCF               Unit6 de comote du FAD
ADF Unit of Account
UNESCO            Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'ducation. la science
et la culture
United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
USAID             Agence des Etats-Unis pour le d&velopnemen-. international
United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCILAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office iE Dlector-Cmual
Opegatm Evasation
December 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on GUINEA
Second Education Proiect (Credit 1341-GUI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a repo': entitled "Project
Completion Report on GUINEA - Second Education Project (Credit 1341-GUI)"
prepared by the Africa Region. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                     2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE . . .                    .. .... . . . . . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY...                                       . . . . . . iii
PART I.  REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .
1.   Project Identity  .            . .  .   . . . .   . . . . .   .
2. Background                   ....1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
4.   Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I
S.   Project Implementation  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .    .... .     5
6.  Project Results .. . ..                      . ..                 7
7.   Project Sustainabil4.ty  ....  .  .  .  .  .    .........   .  12
8.   TDA Performance . . .  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . 13
9.   Borrower Performance  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .    .........   .  14
10. Project Relationship. .                      ... ... . 14
11.   Contracted Services           .     .    .     .    ..... . 15
12.   Project Documentation and Data  ...   ..... .  .  .  .  .   .   .  15
PART II.    REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    17
I.  Project Objectives and Content  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
II.  Project Implementation  .....   . . .......  ..  .  .  .  21
ITI. Project Costs             ........... . 24
IV.  Project Results . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
V. Conclusion ........................ . 31
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
1. Related IDA Credits . . . . ............. . 33
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
3.  Credit Disbursements        ............ . 35
4. Project Implementation        ............ . 36
5. Project Costs and Financing    ............ . 37
6.  Project Results ........    .............  .   .  39
7.  Status of Credit Agreement Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
8.  Use of IDA Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
ANNEXES
I.  Comparative Implementation Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
II.  Comparative Table of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
III.  Comparative Table of Specialist Services  . . . . . . . . . . 47
IV. Comparative Table of Training Fellowships . . . . . . . . . . 50
V.  Exchange Rates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54



PROJECT COhPLEI2ON REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Second Education
Project in Guinea, for which a credit of SDR 10,200,000 was approved by IDA on
March 29, 1983. The credit was closed on December 31, 1990, two years later than
anticipated dur..ng appraisal. The last disbursement was made on September 26,
1991. The credit was not fully disbursed and an amount of SDR 650,376.14 was
cancelled on December 10, 1991.
The project was cofinanced by the African Development Fund and the
Saudi Fund for Development.   The closing dates for their lending have been
postponed to December 31, 1991 and December 31, 1993, respectively.
The report was prepared jointly by the Guinean Government (Part II)
and IDA (Population and Human Resources Division, Occidental and Central Africa
Department).
The project completion mission took place from April 7 to 18, 1991.
This PCR is based on the Appraisal Report, Credit Agreement, SCTP progress
reports, IDA supervision reports, correspondence between IDA, the cofinanciers
and the Government, as well as IDA internal memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectivee (see paras. 2 to 3)
1.          The objectives of the Second Education Project, which reflected the
Government's sectoral priorities and macroeconomic policy goals of the day, were
to improve vocational training, education, and manpower planning, and the quality
of primary education. The Project was designed to meet these objectives through
the provision of the following means:
(a)   Vocational  Training:    (i)  construction,  furniture,  equipment,
materials and consumables, incremental operating costs and
fellowships to improve and deve'lop the existing facilities and
training programs for skilled workers in three Vocational Training
Institutes (at Kankan, Lab6 and N'ZUr6korQ); (ii) equipment,
consumables, specialist services and fellowships to support the
regular activities of the Technical Instructor Training Institute
and assist it with curriculum development; and (iii) furniture,
equipment, specialist services and fellowships to set up a Central
Supply Unit to handle procurement and supply of equipment, parts and
working materials for the Vocational Training Institutes.
(b)   Education and RHman Resources Plauning:  (i) furniture, equipment.
incremental operating costs, specialist services and fellowships to
establish an Education Planning Directorate in order to strengthen
the national planning capacity in this field; and (ii) furniture,
equipment, incremental operating costs, specialist services and
fellowships to strengthen the Education and Training Division
responsible for human resource development in the Ministry of
Planning and Statistics.
(c)   Qualitative Improvement of Primary Education:   (i) construction,
furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs, specialist
services  and  fetllowships  to upgrade  and  e-^pand  the  existing
facilities of the National Pedagogic Institute, develop teaching
methods, prepare primary school textbooks and upgrade regional
primary school inspectors by familiarizing them with the new
teaching methods and textbooks; (ii) construction, furniture and
equipment for upgrading and expanding the existing facilities of the
Educational Printing Office; consumables, incremental operating
costs, specialist services and fellowships for production and
distribution of primary school textbooks; (iii) construction,
furniture and equipment and incremental operating costs to upgrade
and expand existing facilities for two Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (at Kankan and Lab6); training fellowships for improving



- iv-
the quality of teacher training and introduction of new teaching
methods and textbooks.
(d) Project Management: (i) construction, furniture and equipment to
upgrade the existing facilities for the Education Projects
Directorate; incremental operating costs, specialist services and
fellowships to strengthen its project implementation capability; and
(ii) specialist services to assist the Government in tLe preparation
of a possible third education project.
In 1987, at project mid-term, experience with project iLplementation
and changes in Government's priorities for education provok'ed a redesign of
project components. These favored: (a) strengthening of primary education by
increasing the enrollment ratio; (b) upgrading of teacher qualifications; (c)
strengthening of continuing education; and (d) more rational use of the upgraded
Vocational Training and Teacher Training facilities.
Implementation Experience (see para. 5)
2.          Actual project implementation was markedly different than that
foreseen at appraisal:
(a)   The closing of the Credit was delayed for two years,   owing to
delays in the different phases of execution of most components;
(b)   The project cost exceeded appraisal e.timates by 23.2% expressed in
dollar terms;
(c)   The distribution of the ccsts differed from the e?praisal estimates
(higher for the civil works, furniture and equipment, technical
assistance and local seminars categories, lower for professional
services and operating costs); and
(d)   There was a significant increase in the size of the construction
program, owing to the inclusion by two cofinanciers of the Faranah
Vocational Training Institute and of major additional works at the
Lab6 and N'Z6r6kor6 facilities.
Results (see para. 6)
3.          The results were variable across components:
(a)   Vocational Training:   Despite a delay of between two and three
years, depending on the institute concerned, the objective of
rehabilitation of the training centers was exceeded. However, the
pedagogic objectives were only partially achieved. Certain subjects
for which there was low demand were eliminated, although the full
range and content of the programs were only partially modified. The
emphasis was placed on practical training, but the training cycle
was still three years and the conditions for admission to the
centers were not controlled. The number of students enrolled in the



-v -
centers is 623 instead of the projected 700. The teacher training
and upgrading objective was attained.
(b)   Education  and  Human  Resources  Planning:    The  objectives  of
strengthening the Education Planning Directorate were attained. The
statistics are available and up to date and the school map is
operational. The adaptation of education to meet manpower needs was
not achieved. The human resource planning objective, as.signed to
the Education and Training Division of the Ministry of Piarnixg and
International Cooperation, was not achieved.
(c)   Qualitative Improvement of Pr4mary Education:   Measured against
project expectations, the objectives have been partially attained.
Fourteen manuscripts are ready or in the course of preparation in
the Textbook Division of the WaLional Pedagogic Institute. However,
the available textbooks (about 450.000 for seven titles), produced
locally or purchased abroad, do not cover all the needs and did not
reach the schools and teachers outside of Conakry. The number of
graduates from the Kankan and Lab6 Primary Teacher Training Colleges
was 180 and the objective of 230 graduates should be achieved by
1992. The target figures for numbers of students admitted to the
Primary Teacher Training Colleges have not been achieved, but should
be by 1994. At present, the quality of this training has not been
assessed.
(d)   Project Management:  The objectives have been partially attained.
The staff in charge gained good experience in implementation of the
physical aspects of operations but significant weaknesses persist in
the management and accounting areas.
Sustainabilitv (see para.7)
4.          As  it was  designed,  the project  ran  the risk of not being
sustainable. Sustaining the technical and vocational training component remains
dependent on decisions that must be made on matching training and employment and
on allocation of adequate operating budgets to the trai-n'ng centers. At present,
studies are underway which will lead to these decisions. Maintaining qualitative
improvements of primary education still depends on the implementation of a
strategy for textbook distribution in the schools and measures to ensure
sufficient resources for teachers among other things. The follow-up project
(PASE) was designed to support such efforts.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.          To the extent that its different complementary components met the
needs of the country and the requirements of the Government's strategy, the
project as a whole was appropriate for the situation. However:



- vi -
(a)       ?roject's design and organization were not adapted L.o the
existing local ins. -Acional, economical, managerial and implementation capacity.
In particular, obj"'41ives set were too ambitious, and the role of local
intervening entities appeared not to be clearly defined and fully internalized.
This furthor underlines that projects should be designed to fit lccal situations
ard that if there is no sense of "ownership" at the local level, there can really
be no co iltment, nor can project objectives be sustained.
(b)   Mechanisms  designed  at  appraisal to minimize  the  risks
associated with executing the complex tasks of works and textbook production
proved insufficient.  Other risks associated with the diversity and complexity
of actions to be coordinated with respect to technical training (e.g. employment
market studies, admission conditions, duration of training and curricula reforms)
appear not to have been properly appreciated and planned for. This highlights
the need to adapt the project desiSn to local realities (see 5.a).
(c)   IDA does not appear to have assured that effective mechanisms
to monitor project activities and safeguard against the risks inherent in the
complexity and diversity of project objectives were put in place.   This
emphasizes once more the problem of matching the resources needed for adequate
implementation to the needs of the project, including staffing continuity and
adequate specialization (particularly for sophisticated components such as
textbook development), either by providing adequate resources itself, or assuring
that Borrowers engage sufficient specialist advice within the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI)
PART I. REVIEW OF TEE PROJECT FROM IDA'S PERSEECTIVE
1.          Project Identity
Title:                         Second Education Project
Credit No.:                    1341-GUI
Office of the Regional
Vice President:                Africa
Country:                       Guinea
Sector:                        Education
Subsectors:                    Vocational    training;
educational and human resources
planning; primary education.
2.          Backiround
2.1         Sector Development Objectives (Appraisal Report, March 1983).
Since independence, the Government has aimed at establishing a system of
mass education that would offer broad and continual educational
opportunities through a policy to expand the education system to allow
school-age children access to instruction and by mounting a mass adult
literacy campaign. As these measures did not take sufficient account of
the diversity in the occupational structure and qualifications of the
different economic sectors, the Government, at the time of appraisal,
planned to take the following measures:
(a)   train  skilled  workers  for  industry  and  agriculture  in
vocational schools, thus offering secondary school graduates
an al.ernative to higher education;
(b)   strengthen human resources planning to match the output of the
education system more closely to the needs of the economy;
(c)   lower the pass rates in secondary school examinations and
decrease the proportion of secondary school graduates admitted
to higher education;
(d)   improve the quality of education, particularly in the primary
schools, through the provision of teaching materials and
improvements in teacher training.
2.2         Macro-economic Context. Well endowed with arable land, water
and mineral resources, Guinea is a potentially rich country but its
economic development has been constrained over some 20 years since
independenee (1958) by a state-managed, nationalistic and centralized



- 2 -
economic system together with inadequate economic planning and management
and poor human resource development. This situation began to improve in
1978 owing to better political and economic relations with the Western
countries, which encouraged trade and stimulated international aid. At
the time of appraisal, the country's economy was based essentially on the
mining sector (under expansion) and agriculture (stagnant), representing
in 1979 18.5% and 412 of GDP, respectively. The total labor force was
estimated at 2.3 million (452 of the total population estimated at 5.4
million in 1978). The number of wage earners was estimated at 140,000, of
whom 40,000 were in the civil service.   Because of a long-standing
shortage of qualified managers and administrators, there was poor control
of enrollments in the education system as a whole and it was impossible to
match the number and skills of graduates to the needs of the modern
sector. Agriculture and industry had a surplus of mid- and higher-level
personnel and a shortage of skilled workers.
2.3         Relationships Between the Obiectives of the Project. Sector
and Macro-economic Policy. The project objectives were closely linked
w'th the problems in the education sector and objectives of macro-economic
policy.    This  strong  linkage  is  reflected,  in  particular,  in  the
importance of the project's technical assistance and fellowship components
to improve planning capability and sector management and, consistent with
the macro-economic objectives, through the focus on the quality of
training for primary education and the training of mid-level technicians.
3.          Project Obiectives and Description
3.1         The project's principal objectives were to:
(a)   improve vocational school training;
(b)   develop  the manpower,  employment  and  education planning
capacity required to formulate a quantified strategy for
addressing the external efficiency issues;
(c)   improve the quality of primary education.
3.2         The project was to be implemented over a five-year period
(1983 to 1988) and included the following components:
(a)   Vocational Training
(i)   construction,    furniture,    equipment,    consumable
materials, incremental operating costs and fellowshins
to improve and develop existing facilities and programs
for training skilled workers at three Vocational
Training Institutes (IPSs);l/
Ij    (a)   The IPSs became Vocational Training Centers (CFPs) during
project implementation.



(ii)   equipment, consumable materials, specialist services and
fellowships to support the regular activities of the
Technical Instructor Training Institute (ISFORPET),2/
and the development of its training program;
(iii)   furniture,   equipment,   specialist   services   and
fellowships to develop a Central Supply Unit to supply
the IPSs with equipment, spare parts and consumables.
(b)   Educational and Human Resources Planning
(i) furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs,
specialist services and fellowships to establish an
Education Planning Directorate (DGPE)3/ with a view to
strengthening the national capability for educational
planning;
(ii)   furniture,  equipment,  incremental  operating  costs,
specialist services and fellowships to strengthen the
Education and Training Division (DEF) responsible for
the planning of human resource development -ithin the
Ministry of Planning and Statistics (MPS);4/
(c)   Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education
(i)   construction,   furniture,   equipment,    incremental
operating costs, specialist services and fellowships to
upgrade and expand the facilities of the National
Pedagogic Institute (IPN), to develop teaching methods,
prepare primary school textbooks and upgrade primary
school inspectors and familiarize them with the new
teaching methods and textbooks;
(ii)   construction, furniture and equipment to improve and
expand existing facilities of the Educational Printing
Office   (IDEC);  consumable  materials,   incremental
operating costs, specialist services and fellowships for
the production and distribution of primary school
textbooks;
(b) Four CFPs (LabM. N'Z6rfkor6, Kankan and Faranah) received
the type of support envisaged under the project.
2]    ISFORPET became the Technical Teacher Training College (ENSET)
during project implementation.
t./   The DGPE became the Education Statistics and Planning Office
(SSPE) during project implementation.
j/    The MPS became the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MPCI) during project implementation.



-4-
(iii)   construction,  furniture,  equipment  and  incremental
operating costs to upgrade and expand existing
facilitiea for two Primary Teacher Training Colleges
(EN1s) and fellowships to improve the quality of teacher
training and prepare for the introduction of new
teaching methods and textbooks.
(d)   Proiect Management
(i)   construction,  furniture  and  equipment  to  upgrade
existing  faci'lities  for  the  Education  Projects
Directorate (DPE);I/ incremental operatin- costs,
specialist services and fellowships to strengthen its
project implementation capability;
(ii)   specialist services to assist the Government in the
preparation of a possible third education project.
4.          Prolect Desian and Organization
4.1         Although in general appropriate for the circumstances, the
project had to be altered during implementation because of the general
changes ensuing from the new regime in 1984 (new priorities) and because
of problems encountered or identified during implementation.
4.2         The vocational training component, respondirg to the need to
ensure a better match between the output of the education system and
manpower requirements, was well designed in some respects.   From the
outset, the Government was to implement the findings of the UNDP manpower
and training study. That study, along with the Credit Agreement, proposed
to change (a) school admission corlitions; (b) the duration of training at
the Vocational Training Centers (CFPs) and Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (ENla); and (c) the training curricula. The design of the
component was based on this reorganization which was not realized owing to
delays in implementation exacerbated by the political change in 1984. The
initial pedagogical objectives were apparently overly ambitious.
Ultimately, everything rested on the management capability of the
Technical and Vocational Education Directorate (DNETP) in implementing a
major reform in vocational education.
4.3         In order to ensure a better match between the output of the
education system and the country's manpower needs, the Government was to
reorganize the manpower and education planning offices within the Ministry
of Planning and Statistics (MPS) and the education ministries.   The
employment/training match would have been better if a joint planning
office for those ministries had been decided on during initial project
design.
2/    The DPE became the Technical Cooperation and Projects O'fice
(SCTP) during project implementation.



4.4         Problems relating to the design and scale of the production
and distribution of textbooks were related to the overly ambitious
objectives at the time, given the country's situation.   The practical
problems associated with the editing, production and distribution of large
volumes of textbooks in a country with little experience in those areas
should have been more closely examined. Furthermore, although the roles
and powers assigned to the offices involved in implementation had been
clearly defined at the time of appraisal, the details of the different
tasks were apparently understood very late by those responsible.   The
political changes that began in 1984 had a profound effect on the project
and should have led to a complete revision of this component, for which
the main change was essentially the use of French as the language of
instruction.
4.5         During project design, DPE's administrative capability for
coordinating multiple and diverse activities that involved several donors
should have been examined more closely.
4.6         In 1987 new objectives for education were set by the Ministry
of Education (MEN) in conjunctio.i with IDA: (a) strengthening of primary
education by increasing enrollment rates; (b) upgrading of teacher
qualifications; (c) strengthening of continuing training; and (d) more
rational use of the renovated CFP and ENI facilities.
5.          Proiect Implementation
5.1.        The Project, cofinanced by the African Development Fund (ADF),
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) and IDA (see Part III, Section 5.B),
began in 1983 under the First Republic. Project components were for the
most part implemented with occasionally marked differences in relation to
appraisal projections.
(a)   Duration:   The closing of the IDA credit was extended two
years and the completion of the physical aspects of the
components delayed from two to five years, owing to:
(i) delays in credit effectiveness (establishment of project
cofinancing and availability of Agreement documents in
French); (ii) architectural studies sometimes longer than
planned for those done by SCTP; (iii) competitive bidding
taking longer than projected (contract signature loop);
(iv) difficulties   in  establishing  and  disbursing  the
counterpart funds along with partial suspension of IDA
disbursements for 10.5 months (9/18/87 to 8/1/88); (v) a
period of uncertainty regarding the future of the IDEC;
(vi) civil works taking longer than expected t emoteness of
certain worksites, delays in payments to contractors, internal
prob'lems for one firm); and (vii) unutilized balances from the
various cofinancings that resulted in the authorization of
supplementary operations. A comparative timetable for project
implementation is given in Annexes I, III and IV. Completion
of the project, regarding availability of the last physical
component (Faranah CFP), is expected in mid-1991.



- 6 -
(b)   Costs: Project costs up to the time of the completion mission
exceeded appraisal estimates (+23.2Z expressed in US$). This
overrun vras largely covered by the favorable changes in the
exchange rate during project implementation (see Part III,
Section 5.A, and Annexes II and V).
(c)   Cost breakdown:  The final costs expressed in US$ are higher
than projected for the categories of civil works, furniture
and equipment, specialist services, fellowships and local
seminars and are lower than projected for professional
services and operating costs; the breakdown by source of
financing cannot be analyzed overall owing to (i) the
diversity of currencies used by the various sources of
financing; and (ii) the continuation of disbursements
associated with the other sources of financing (see Part III,
Section 5B).
(d)   Physical Content of the Project:   The major differences
compared  to  appraisal  projections   involve  additional
operations: (i) the Faranah CFP (not initially included in
the Appraisal Report, but included in the Loan Agreement with
the SFD; (ii) major additional works (staff housing and multi-
purpose room for the Labe and N'Zerekore CFPs and ENIs,
demonstration school with 16 classrooms for the Labe ENI) as
well as renovation of the premises occupied by the Technical
Education and Vocational Training Directorate (DETFP), made
possible by the magnitude of the remaining funds from the ADF
loan; and (iii) rehabilitation of the premises for the
Education Statistics and Planning Office (SSPE), setting up of
11 experimental worksites (33 classrooms) as part of
preparation for the Education Sector Adjustment Program (PASE)
and support for the start-up of PASE activities using proceeds
from the IDA credit.
5.2         As regards the execution of the various components:
(a)   The reorganization of the planning offices was not successful.
While research and several studies were undertaken on
manpower, they were not used to improve the vocational
training programs. In addition, during project revision, it
was not decided to establish a joint planning office for the
various ministries. Consequently, the successive ministries
responsible for education were not able to formulate a
strategy for planning enrollments in response to the
employmcnit situation.
(b)   The CFP vocational  training programs were  superficially
modified. Several streams were eliminated, but no new program
was introduced to respond to manpower requirements. The
duration of training is still three years long, even though
certain specializations were to be reduced to two years.
Without any strategy for matching training to the job market,
the CFPs could not locally respond to the socioeconomic



-7-
milieu, which would have made it possible to adapt student
flows and training content.
(c)   Modest progress was made in the rational use of the CFPs and
ENIs, such as planned during project revision.   Classroom
utilization rose from 30X in 1987 to 802 in 1990. However,
the schools were to increase from 26 weeks to 44 weeks of
activity per year; in 1990 they operated between 26 and 36
weeks.     The  Government  could  have  stressed  greater
participation on the part of the community in general and
industry in particular, with a view to using available
facilities, especially amphitheaters and large rooms.
(d)   As the number of candidates was generally lower than the
capacity, particularly in the existing ENIs, it was suggested
that available places be used for advanced in-service training
and introduction of teachers to literacy methods. This aspect
of the project was delayed and has not yet been carried out.
(e)   The CFP, ENI and IPN documentation and library centers were
meagerly equipped with books despite the fact that the project
had planned for sufficient supply. In the case of the IPN,
the books were purchased but there were no new books on the
shelves. A better distribution and control system should be
ensured for the future.
(f)   The  IPN  developed  courses,  pedagogical  guides  and  an
evaluation  system,   and  undertook  several  pedagcgical
activities.    All  of  these  outputs,  however,  were  not
distributed outside of Conakry.  A distribution strategy for
the country should have bcen formulated and implemented. The
lack of access  to these works only  further  erodes  the
motivation of primary teachers atid as such undermines the
quality of teaching.
(g)   Execution  of  the  IDEC  component  was  delayed  and  its
development questioned during the project. That entity is now
attached to the IPN. There were delays in establishing the
teams of authors, arrival of technical assistance and the
training of IPN personnel. The revision of the project in
1986-87 called for the purchase of textbooks abroad but helped
guarantee the availability of books before the closing of the
project. The new book distribution system proposed in 1990
has not been implemented.
6.          Proiect Results
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
6.1         Vocational Training  Centers  (CFPs).   From  the  physical
standpoint, the project included the renovation and limited expansion of
existing facilities together with the purchase of equipment and the



-8-
provision of consumable materials and energy resources for a two-year
period. Despite a delay of two to three years in the rehabilitation of
those  schools,  the  rehabilitation  objective  was  achieved.    The
rehabilitation of the Faranah CFP, now being completed, had also been
included.  Maintenance of the facilities visited is excellent.
6.2         From  the  pedagogical  standpoint,  the  project  aimed  at
improving the level of training and changing its focus, to include the
activities for which the demand for manpower was high, such as
construction and vehicle and machinery maintenance.   This meant the
elimination of training programs for which demand is negligible, such as
mechanical fabrication at the Labe CFP and the addition of new trades,
such as sheet-metal, welding, plumbing, electrical installations and
u4tomotible repair at the N'Z6r6kor6 CFP. That objective was partially
achieved. The planned programs were eliminated. However, the range and
content of the programs were not adapted to the needs of the modern
sector, owing to the shortage of planning tools and human resources
available at the DNETP.   The training cycle was to be two years for
general masonry, plumbing and electrical installation, and three years for
joinery, sheet metal, welding, auto mechanics and reinforced concrete
construction. The curriculum was to be modernized with the assistance of
the Technical Instructor Training College (ISFORPET). The focus should
have been on practical training, with 20 to 24 hours of workshop practice
per week. Moreover, under the project revision in 1987, the CFPs were to
improve the facilities' rate of utilization. These objectives have not
yet been attained.   The training cycle is still three years and the
training programs have only been partially modified. However, practical
training is now 20 hours. The 55 teaohers needed for the three CFPs were
to be trained or upgraded in Conak-y by ENSET.   That objective was
attained. Most of the teachers received specialized training abroad or at
ENSET (see Annex IV).
6.3         Total enrollments in the CFPs was to remain constant (about
700), which would have made it possible to train a total of 280 skilled
workers each year for the seven main specialties. Enrollments have not
yet achieved the target set in 1990.   CFP enrollments totalled 623,
corresponding to an output of 230 skilled workers. That objective should
be achieved in 1992.   During negotiations, the Govesrnent agreed to
establish by December 31, 1983 the admission conditions for the CFPs.
Those conditions were to correspond to the end of the second cycle. That
objective has not been achieved, as 50% of admitted students have
completed the third cycle.
6.4         Preparation of the programs and equipment standardization for
the CFPs benefitted from ongoing technical assistance to the ENSET. The
project provided 21 months of fellowships for CPP directors and workshop
heads to study systems and methods for training skilled workers abroad.
The training objective for instructors and managers was accomplished in
the last years of the project (22 months of fellowships were utilized).
6.5         Technical Teacher Training Colleze (ENSET). Established under
the First Education Project, ENSET became fully operational at the end of
1980. The project was to finance equipmentt and consumable materials to
improve the efficiency of practical training. In addition, 17 years of



specialist services had been planned over a three-year period
(consolidation of the training program for technical teachers, development
of the IPSo throughout the country, evaluation and revision of training
programs and preparation of training means), as well as 105 months of
fellowships (training of instructors and teacher trainers specialized in
equipment maintenance). The training objective was partially achieved.
Twenty-three years of specialist services and 91 months of fellowships
were viilized. However, the evaluation and revision of training programs
were not carried out, owing to a delay in recruiting specialists. It is
too early to evaluate the quality of that training.
6.6         Central Supplv Unit for Vocational Training.   With IDA's
approval, this component was eliminated from the Project, owing to the
improvement in supply conditions throughout the country, and in line with
the 1987 revision and the Government's decentralization policy.
EDUCATIONAL AND HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING
6.7         Educational Resources Planning. The offices of the DGrE were
responsible for (a) the restructuring of the education system;
(b) regulation  and  orientation  of  school  enrollment  flows;  and
(c) adaptation of instruction to manpower needs.  The DGPE was also to
improve the collection of statistical data and regional planning by
organizing and overseeing training seminars for the employees of regional
education offices and undertaking a study on the development of vocational
training, as well as tracer studies on graduates of the CFPs and agro-
zootechnical facilities. To that end, the project ensured the financing
of furniture, equipment, operating costs, 30 months of specialist services
(educational planning), consultant services (analysis of statistics on
higher education, study of the development of technical education, tracer
studies and training at the local level) and 50 months of training
fellowships (school map, statistics, education costs and financing,
vocational training).   Most of the DGPE's objectives were achieved.
Thirty-two months of specialist services and 78.5 months of fellowships
were utilized. The expertise brought to this component and the training
of local specialists have been effective. Those services, which also have
appropriate rehabilitated premises as a result of the project, are
operating very smoothly. Statistics are available and up to date and the
school map is now in operation. However, the adaptation of education to
match manpower needs has not been achieved by that department.
6.8         Human Resources  Planning.   The project  called  for the
strengthening of the Education and Training Division (DEF) within the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MPCI).   DEF was
responsible  for  human  resources  planning  and  the  preparation  and
monitoring of the education plan.   It was to play a key role in the
formulation of sectoral reforms based on the UNDP employment study,
working closely with the DGPE and the Directorate of Labor (DGT) within
the Ministry of Labor. DEF's objective for manpower projections was not
achieved owing to the shortage of specialists in that field; those
responsibilities are now carried out by the National Employment and
Manpower Office (OIEMO).



- 10 -
QUALITATIVE IWROVEMENT IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
6.9         National Pedagogic Institute.   In addition  to producing
textbooks, the IPN was made responsible for reviewing programs and methods
for training primary teachers and ensuring in-service training of primary
inspectors with regard to the introduction of the new programs and
utilization of textbooks. The project was to finance the improvement and
expansion of premises, furniture, equipment, 116 months of specialist
services (program development, teacher training, editing and production of
textbooks), 132 months of fellowships (program development and evaluation,
preparation of manuals, improvement of training programs for primary
teachers and improvement in teaching methods) and incremental operating
costs.   These objectives were partially achieved.   IPN personnel are
encountering difficulties in adapting to their new work spaces, which the
users  find  to be  insufficiently  partitioned  off.6/    The  IPN  has
sufficient high-quality equipment, and the various teams have effectively
produced the teaching materials (guides, evaluation sheets, etc.), but the
materials have not yet reached the teachers and schools outside of
Conakry. There were 157 months of specialist services and 165 months of
fellowships utilized. The training objective was achieved.
6.10        Educational Printing Office.  The project was to finance the
renovation and expansion of the IDEC's premises, furniture and additional
equipment, labor for printing 1,218,000 textbooks, incremental operating
costs, 65 months of specialist services and 40 months of fellowships with
a view to the production and distribution of primary textbooks.   The
original objectives were altered owing to the political change in 1984.
The original objective of 22 titles (in seven languages, representing 122
textbooks) was scaled down to 10 (all in French) for students and 6
teacher guides (number unchanged).  Given the changes in needs, delays in
preparation of the books and uncertainties prevailing at that time
regarding the future of the Printing Office, the 1986-87 revision limited
project activities to facility renovation. It was decided to contract the
printing of the textbooks to the private sector.  At the time of the
completion mission, about 450,000 textbooks (seven titles) were in stock.
Three of the textbooks were produced locally and four purchased from
foreign publishers, because the manuscripts were not available in time
from the IPN. Fourteen manuscripts are ready or being prepared by the
Textbook Division that was established within the IPN. The teacher guides
(manuscripts) are ready. The training objective was achieved (36 months
of fellowships used in the areas of photocomposition, printing and
maintenance), but those services lost some of their capacity owing to the
non-replacement and aging of existing equipment, lack of a budget and work
program. The impact of the component on primary schools (12,000 books
sold) and consequenily on improving education remains marginal and can be
evaluated only after the establishment of the book distribution system and
accompanying measures aimed at the teachers.
i/   These works, not initially included, were found to be necessary
during the project but not carried out as they did not attract the
firms consulted for bids. The desirability of the works is
doubtful because they would mean use of permanent artificial
lighting in parts of the premises.



- 11 -
6.11        Primary  Teacher  Trainint Colletes  (ENIs).    The project
included the existing ENTs in Lab6 and Rankan, for which financing was
planned of civil works, furniture, equipment, 124 months of fellowships
for teaching personnel (methodology for general instruction, Science and
French; classroom observation and evaluation) and auxiliaries (laboratory
assistants and filing clerks), and the financing of incremental operating
costs. For the two ENIs, enrollments were to be 720, with 230 graduates
each year. The physical objectives were achieved, if not exceeded, and
the ENIs have potentially adapted infrastructure.7/ The two ENIs have
an enrollment of 645 student-teachers, representing 180 graduates.
Eighty-four months of fellowships were utilized. The targeted number of
graduates should be reached in 1992. At this juncture, it is impossible
to evaluate the quality of this training.
6.12        To reduce  expenditures  related to teacher  salaries,  the
students in the three-year cycle at the ENIs were to be admitted at the
lower secondary level and not after the baccalaureate. Once revised, the
teaching program was to focus specifically on professional training, with
about 40Z of the time to be devoted to pedagogical training and practice
teaching. The Government had agreed to make the decree governing the ENIs
effective in December 1984, which would mean admission of students at the
lower secondary level.    Baccalaureate  students,  however,  are  still
admitted to the ENIs.  The decree is to be implemented in 1994.
6.13        Primary Schools.  This component, introduced during project
implementation, involved the development of a model that integrated
community participation into primary school construction, particularly in
the rural areas as part of the preparation of a future project.   In
principal, the results envisaged included a reduction in unit investment
costs together with greater local involvement in maintaining the
infrastructure. Two series of experiments were conducted and a guide to
administrative procedures was prepared.   Despite certain delays, the
results have been very positive. Beyond the construction of 33 classrooms
of good quality, the experimentation made it possible to focus on the
major problems in the construction process (community outreach, technical
supervision, budget and timetable, rate and conditions of payment). Unit
costs ranged from US$100-150/m2. This component is to be replicated on a
larger scale under the PASE.  It should be noted, however, that other
parallel projects have different philosophies (greater or less recourse to
contractors), which could have negative effects, e.g. Government's policy
on school construction might not be seen as credible from the communities'
perspective.
7/    The Lab6 ENI's 16-classroom demonstration school on an adjacent
piece of land was rehabilitated as part of the project (ADF
financing). This complex also accommodates a school for health
workers whose growing number poses a problem of cohabitation that
needs to be resolved through the internal reallocation of the
facilities used by the demonstration school.



- 12 -
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
6.14        rae project was to provide financing for the renovation of the
DPE'o offices, incremental operating costs, 87 months of specialist
services and 24 months of fellowships to strengthen DPE's implementation
capability. In addition, the financing was to cover the preparation of a
third project. From the physical standpoint, the planned rehabilitations
were carried out. The SCTP (ex DPE) nevertheless moved in February 1989
to a distant site that is insufficiently equipped (electricity and
telephone) until the rehabilitation of the Ministry's premises is
completed (mid-1991). SCTP personnel have benefitted from fellowships or
study travel totaling 45 months (management, procurement, worksite,
building design) and have received the support of 96 months of technical
assistance (management and architecture) as vell as the short-term support
of a management specialist.   SCTP staff are highly fam'liar with the
physical aspects of project implementation. Major weaknesses persist with
regard to management and accounting.
6.15        Preparation activities for a third project resulted in the
formulation of the PASE. Authorization was made to use the unutilized
funds from the credit for various purposes (rehabilitation works,
purchases of materials and vehicles, miscellaneous operating expenses),
which, in turn, facilitated the start-up of certain activities (project
launch workshops, as well as missions related to school mapping and school
construction).
7.          Project Sustainability
7.1         The quality of the programs  for tec:hnical training and
education in general should be sustained with adequate operating budgets.
It is pointless to invest in infrastructure if the means for ensuring
facility operation and maintenance are not provided. Operating budgets
are minimal, particularly for the CFPs where in short order the
consumables will be depleted, forcing teachers to dispense theoretical
instruction which is a poor response to the qualitative needs. With a
view to ensuring and increasing the operating budgets of the CFPs, their
number needs to be pared. An analysis of the employment situation shows
that there is no need to increase the number of graduates.
7.2         In 1988 the ONEMO received 15,328 requests for employment and
succeeded in making 3,387 placements.   The prospects for young people
remain inadequate, owing to a very difficult job market. The practice of
employers in the various sectors is to require three to five years of
experience of new recruits.   This largely hampers young seekers of
employment, whose number continues to grow.
7.3         The reduction in civil service workers over the last five
years affects the graduates of the training institutes.  Consequently,
seven cohorts of students from national and foreign universities as well
as vocational training schools are awaiting employment without much hope
for the immediate future. The development of the private sector on which
the Government has based its prospect for employment of the young is
lagging.



- 13 -
7.4         A study on matching training to the job market is planned, so
that training is not provided in areas for which there are no outlets.
Beginning in June 1991, two advisors from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) will conduct the study and review the existing
literature, with a view to supporting the DNETP.   In addition,  the
National Vocational Training Agency (ONFPP) has been given the
responsibility for tracking changes in job opportunities in advance so
that the education system can respond. These two new aspects should help
improve the efficiency of technical and vocational training.
7.5         A Textbook Division has been established within the IP,N to
oversee the supply of textbooks throughout the country. The Division has
appropriate premises, equipment and personnel and should be considered an
independent publishing house. With a specific budget, it could take on
all the tasks of a publishing house (preparation of books, ordering of
runs and/or formulation of calls for bids, distribution and collection of
payments).
7.6         The future of the IDEC is uncertain.  If a decision is taken
rapidly and a sufficient budget provided for its operations and repair of
its machinery, the Printing Office could produce small runs (teacher
guides and educational card sets (flches pedagoglques).
8.          IDA Performance
8.1         IDA assisted the Government in revising the project when the
implementation of certain major aspects of the Credit Agreement
encountered difficulties.  The changes in the project were consistent with
the new environment. The actions and recommendations of the supervision
phase were well founded and did their best to make the project -- which
encountered major implementation problems -- work.   In this difficult
context, supervision, which required innovation and sound experience, was
properly carried out. As regards textbook production, the supervision
missions should have included a specialist, if possible the same person,
in a more regular fashion.   Regrettably, changes in the context and
induced changes involving the focus of the project and certain components
did not lead to a re-appraisal of the project and the drafting of a
reference document for its continuation.
8.2         The First Education Project was a success,  owing to its
simplicity and limited number of components. The Second Project involved
a greater number of entities, incorporating new and very specific
activities into the production of textbooks and involving the
participation of various financing sources, making it too complex for
existing management capability. All parties had to work in a changing
context during project implementation (changes in project direction,
pol'Ltical situation and focus). These factors exacerbated delays. IDA
shoild seek to establish conditions conducive to implementation when a
project is to involve several ministries and multiple donors.
8.3         Major studies on the employment market should have commenced
at the start of the project, before the programs were modified. A study
was to begin in February 1982 under the First Education Project.  The



- 14 -
Second Project called for a detailed analysis of policies based on that
study and the formulation of a plan to implement its findings. That part
of the project, key to vocational training in Guinea, was never carried
out.  IDA should have monitored agreements and recommendations reached
during negotiations and the commlitments made by the Government more
closely, and/or should have initiated necessary readjustments during
project supervision.
9.          Borrower Performance
9.1         The efforts  of the Borrower to  improve  the  quality of
education under the Second Project need to be continued, particularly as
regards teaching personnel, whose enthusiasm needs to be supported.
Through budget reallocaticns, the Government should seek to guarantee
teachers' sufficient resources to ensure their presence in class, as well
as the availability of teaching materials and good pedagogical
supervision.
9.2         On the Guinean side, there is still a wide range of possible
parties involved in the preparation of education projects. As this can
pose problems of consistency and coordination, the role of the various
parties involved should be redefined and clarified.   There are, at
present, various projects involving primary school construction throughout
the country for which the originally defined process (ranging from total
responsibility of the communities in construction to exclusive recourse to
building contractors) is resulting in prohibitive costs and could, in
addition, have perverse effects regarding the future motivation of the
communities, who should remain involved in the decision-making process,
construction and running of the primary schools.
10.         Project Relationship
10.1        The positive relationships between IDA and the Borrower that
started with the First Education Project continued. The efforts of both
partners made it possible to overcome certain difficulties that arose
during the project and resulted in its revision. This good cooperation
also prevailed in the final implementation phase in the form of closer and
more frequent supervision from IDA's Resident Mission in Conakry,
with a view to improving the rate of disbursements.8/
10.2        Cooperation between IDA and the other cofinanciers started
during project appraisal and continued throughout implementation,
primarily through exchanges of correspondence during the critical phases.
EJ    This change nevertheless did not result in full utilization of the
proceeds of the credit owing to (i) poor management and planning
of project activities; (ii) submission of requests for retroactive
financing that were sometimes unacceptable; (iii) occasional late
submission; and (iv) poor understanding of procurement and
disbursement procedures.



- 15 -
11.         Contra Sted _ r.oices
11.1        Architectural Services.  The studies to be undertaken by the
private sector were awarded to a single firm selected from among seven
pro-qualified companies.   The design of the facilities is in general
appropriate, with the exception of the IPN where the personnel find it
difficult to work in large spaces without partitions (see para. 6.9); and
the Lab6 CFP where  the central  supply warehouse  is  insufficiently
protected from dust, one of the roofing materials is posing a maintenance
problem  and the generator's  fuel consumption exceeds  the operating
budget's capacity despite the renewed warnings by the SCTP and IDA
missions since the beginning of the technical studies.   Appropriate
remedial action is underway for all these problems.
11.2        Construction Firms.  In general, the quality of construction
is satisfactory. Responsibility for the considerable delays at certain
worksites could not be clearly established given the Government's problems
with timely payments to the firms (selected in accordance with the
prescribed procedures).
11.3        Suppliers of Equipment and Furniture.   The items delivered
conformed to the specifications and procurement followed the prescribed
procedures.
11.4        Technical  Assistance  (specialist  services  and  training
fellowships).   The tables in Annexes II1  and IV compare projected and
actual  technical  assistance.    The  delay  in  the  implementation  of
specialist services and training of local project personnel should be
noted.   Such delays make it difficult to analyze the impact of those
activities. The quality of technical assistance was satisfactory, except
as regards the non-existent cooperation within the DPE between the manager
and his counterparts and the limited results in textbook production. With
one exception, the entire technical assistance component related to
manpower planning and projection was eliminated, which resulted in
delaying the reform of technical and vocational education.  In January
1988, a considerable un-utilized balance of US$873,000 of the contract
that had been planned for the IDEC was reallocated to strengthen the
planning and management capability of the sector and project.   The
fellowships were found to be very profitable by the beneficiaries, with
several reservations regarding the training received by the editors for
whom practical training with a publishing house was deemed insufficient.
12.         Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        Overall,  the initial Credit Agreement and the July  1988
amendment were appropriate for the situation in the sector, in particular
the points for which compliance was lacking or incomplete regarding
curricula and conditions for admission to the CFPs and ENIs, studies on
the development of vocational training and tracer scudies of CFP
graduates.



- 16 -
12.2        The 1983 Appraisal Report, which served as the main reference
for project monitoring and evaluation should have been updated, given the
significance of changes that occurred during implementation.
12.3        Most of the information and data needed for the preparation of
the project completion report were obtained from the SCTP and the
institutions visited during the mission and, for the more remote ones,
through the World Bank Resident Mission in Conakry, which transmitted a
questionnaire on the necessary data for preparation of the PCR to those in
charge of the various components. Calculation of overall project costs
was nevertheless laborious because separate accounting records were kept
for each source of financing and management was primarily concerned with
keeping the funds still available up to date for each source of financing,
without giving any particular attention to aggregating the various
expenditures in a single reference currency by component and category of
expenditure.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI)
PART II. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREFACE
This report is the completion report on the Second Education
Project jointly financed by the International Development Association
(IDA), the African Development Fund   (ADF), and the Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD).
The report was prepared by the Borrower (the Government of the
Republic of Guinea) and will be for restricted distribution.
It should be borne in mind that the different credit and loan
agreements pertaining to this project were signed in 1983.
In principle, and according to those agreements, the project
should have been closed in 1988. However, as a result of the political
changes that occurred in Guinea in April 1984 and which had an impact on
certain of the project objectives, some of the components were
fundamentally reorganized, especially those to be funded by IDA. This 'Led
to the idea of amending Credit Agreement 1341-GUI between IDA and the
Guinean Government. By the time that amendment was prepiared, the project
had remained largely static for about two years
Besides the political changes in Guinea, it should be noted
that the approval process for documents was generally a long one. The
slow-moving administrative procedures had a serious impact on the progress
of the project.
Thus, despite all the efforts deployed at different levels,
the closing date initially set could not be met.
The IDA credit (1341-GUI) was closed on December 31, 1990.
As regards the ADF loan, although the different actions have
already been virtually completed to the satisfaction of all parties, the
closing of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1991, to permit
utilization of the funds agailable from the technical assistance and
training agreement with UNESCO.
Regarding the SFD loan, the amount of funds still undisbursed
has led 0.. 'and to extend the closing date to December 31, 1993.



- 18 -
Basic data:2
Total cost of project                        US$30,200,000
Amount of IDA credit                        SDR 10,200,000
Amount of ADF loan                          FUA 14,500,000
Amount of SFD loan                         SRls 24,000,000
Date of IDA Credit Agreement               April 26, 1983
Closing date of IDA credit                 December 31, 1990
Date of ADF Loan Agreement                 December 29, 1983
Closing date of ADF loan                   December 31, 1991
Date of SFD Loan Agreement                 May 19, 1993
Closing date of SFD loan                   December 21, 1993
Allocation of Funds
IDA credit: (as sigr.ed; see June 22, 1988 Amendment in III(a)
thereafter):
Amount Allocated
(expressed in SDR          Z of Expenditures
Category                      Eauivalent)              to be Financed
Civil Works                      1,800,000                80%
Architectural and                1,200,000               100%
Engineering Fees
Equipment and                    1,370,000               100%
Furniture
Specialist Services             3,850,000                100%
and Fellowships
Incremental                       240,000                 50Z
Operating
Costs
Refunding of Project               645,000         Amount due under Section
Preparation Advance                                2.02 (b) of Agreement
Initial Disbursement                55,000         Amount due under Section
to Special Account                                 2.03 (b) of Agreement
Unallocated                      1.040.000
Total                  10,200,000



- 19 -
ADF loan:
Z of Expenditures
Cateoorv           Amount in FUA            to be Financed
Civil Works              8,513,738                      80-1002
Architectural Fees         360,000                         100Z
Equipment, Supplies      2,840,000                         1002
and Materials
Specialist Services      2,771,102                         1002
and Fellowships
Operating Costs             15.160                         1002
Total:       FUA 14,500,000
SFD loan:
Amount Allocated        Z of Expenditures
Category                         (expressed in          to be Financed
SRls)
1.   Construction of an IPS and          15,658,000          1002 of all
an ENI at Kankan and of an                              expenditures
IPS at Faranah
2.   Supply of equipment and              4,732,000          100% of all
furniture required                                      expenditures
3.  Architectural and                       175,000          1002 of all
engineering                                             expenditures
fees for the Faranah IPS
4.   Unallocated                          3.435.000
Total                   24,000,000
I.          PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONTENT
The Second Education Project was to be executed in five years,
from 1983 to 1988. Its main objectives were:
A.    To upgrade the training provided in vocational schools.
B.    To develop  the manpower and education planning capacity
required to formulate a quantified strategy for addressing the
external efficiency issues.
C.    To improve the quality of primary education.
D.    To provide  the Projects Directorate with an appropriate
infrastructure and equipment.



- 20 -
E.    To provide specific training for staff by means of seminars.
The project comprised the following components:
PART A:     VOCATIONAL TRAINING
1.          Construction,  furniture, equipment, materials,  incremental
operating costs and fellowships to improve and develop the existing
facilities and training programs for skilled workers in the Vocational
Training Institutes (IPSs).
2.          Equipment, consumable materials, speciaAst services and
fellowships to support the regular programs of the Technical Instructor
Training Institute (ISFORPET) and assist it with curriculum development.
3.          Furniture, equipment, specialist services and fellowships to
develop a Central Supply Unit to carry out the procurement and supply of
equipment, parts and working materials for the IPSs.
PART B:     EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING
1.          Furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs, specialist
services and fellowships to establish an Education Planning Directorate
(DGPE) to strengthen the national education planning capability.
2.          Furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs, specialist
services and training fellowships for strengthening the Education and
Training Division (DEF) responsible for planning human resource
development in the Ministry of Planning and Statistics.
PART C:     IMPROVEMENT OF THE QUALITY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.          Construction,  furniture,  equipment,  incremental operating
costs, specialist services and training fellowships in order to upgrade
and expand the existing facilities of the National Pedagogic Institute
(IPN), to build up a capacity for reviewing teaching methods and preparing
primary school textbook manuscripts, and to upgrade primary school
inspectors and familiarize them with the new teaching methods and
textbooks.
2.          Construction, furniture and equipment to improve and expand
the existing facilities of the Educational Printing Office (IDEC),
consumable materials, incremental operating costs, specialist services and
fellowships for the production and distribution of primary school
textbooks.
3.          Construction,  furniture  and  equipment  and  incremental
operating costs to upgrade and expand existing facilities for two Primary
Teacher Training Cclleges (ENIs) and fellowships to improve the quality of
teacher training and prepare for the introduction of new teaching methods
and textbooks.



- 21 -
PART Dt     PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.          Construction, furniture and equipment to upgrade existing
facilities for the Education Projects Directorate  (DPE),  incremental
operating costs, specialist services and fellowships to strengthen its
project implementation capability.
2.          Specialist  services  to  assist  the  Government  in  the
preparation of a possible third education project.
PART E:     OCCASIONAL LOCAL TRAINING
Granting of allowances to participants in local advanced
training seminars in teaching methods and education planning.
II.         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.          IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD AND CONFORMITY WITH THE AGREEMENTS WITH
THE DONORS
In accordance with the terms of the different agreements, all
concluded in 1983, the project was to be closed five years after
signature, i.e., in 1988.
However,   owing  to  the  political   changes  and  their
consequences, none of the agreements was implemented within the time set.
The implementation of the project was handled by an existing
Projects Directorate (Project Unit) in the Ministry of Education.  The
Project Unit was responsible for all administrative tasks and management
of the project.
This unit also participated in the letting of the different
contracts for works and supply of equipment and consumables. .ost of the
architectural and technical studies for the different construction
projects were done by a Dakar-based private consulting firm. Only a part
of these studies was done directly by the Project Unit, namely, those for
the Faranah Vocational Training Center (CFP), the offices housing the
Project Unit, the Education Print Shop (IDEC), and for certain work done
in the Labe CFP/ENI complex and the N'Zer6kore CFP as a result of the
amendments accepted by ADF. The work in question consisted of housing and
the ENI practice school.
The  Project  Unit,   in  conjunction  with  the  private
architectural firm, supervised the works and participated in the
provisional and final acceptance of works, furniture, equipment and
working materials.
In the course of implementation of the project the director
was replaced in 1985.  Two years later, in March 1987, the management
,,



- 22 -
expert left. It should also be noted that in December 1988, to permit
renovation of the Education Ministry building (financed by the National
Development Budget, BND), the MEN Cabinet occupied the Project Unit's
premises and the Unit's staff vere temporarily transferred to the National
Pedagogic Institute, where working conditions are much poorer (no power,
no telephone).
In October 1989, with the establishment of the Ministry of
Pre-University Education, the Project Unit was attached to that ministry.
It is also worthy of note that during the implementation of
thir- project most of the Project Unit staff, especially those concerned
with works, management, equipment and secretariat services, benefitted
from fellowships for training purposes.
B.          PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
Sites:    Project  components  were  distributed  among  the
different sources of financing:
1.    The IPN, the Project Unit and the Print Shop were financed by
IDA.
2.    The Labe CFP/ENI and the N'Zerekore CFP were financed by ADF.
3.    The Kankan CFP/ENI and the Faranah CFP were financed by SFD.
Architectural  Studies:      The  studies  relating  to  the
preparation of bidding documents for civil works were entrusted to a
private firm.
For most of the locations it was primarily a matter of
upgrading works that also included some expansions.
At the IPN, a new administration block was put in adjoining
the main building, with which it is linked by a covered walkway.
At the Lab6 CFP/ENI complex, besides the existing workshops
and classrooms a new administration building was built for the CFP,
together with a multipurpose room for joint use by the two institutions.
In addition, six staff houses were built that were not
included in the original project.  A sizable practice school was also
built using the funds available from the ADF loan.
A new administration facility was built for the Kankan CFP/ENI
complex.
A new administration building was built at the N'Zerekore CFP,
together with a multipurpose room like the one at Labe.



- 23 -
Construction:   The construction work was contracted after
competitive bidding. Contracts for the IPN and for the Lab6 CFP/ENI and
the N'Z6rUkor6 CFP were awarded to two foreign contractors.
It should be mentioned that substantial supplementary works
were added to the CFP/ENI contract on the basis of amendments authorized
by the ADF to use funds remaining after implementation of other project
components.
The contract for the work to be done at the Kankan CFP/ENI
complex was awarded to a third foreign firm, but a major delay developed
there owing to the misunderstanding that persisted for some time between
the SFD and the Government regarding who was responsible for the civil
works, coupled with communication difficulties between the two parties.
The works for the Faranah CFP were started considerably behind
schedule and are still under way.
It should be noted that IDA authorized rehabilitation of the
building housing the Education Ministry's Planning and Statistics
Directorate. This work was done by a local firm.
The contracts for the Educational Printing Office (IDEC) and
that of the Projects Directorate were both awarded to another local firm.
However, while there have not been any major problems with the Projects
Directorate office, numerous unforeseen complications have arisen with the
work on the IDEC office.
To begin with, following the change of regime in Guinea the
new government decided to return all the buildings that had been seized
for political reasons under the former regime. This led to the Catholic
Mission demanding the return of the IDEC premises, which it claimed
belonged to it. Extensive negotiations with involvement of the Housing
Ministry were needed to resolve this situation.
Meanwhile, in view of the trend toward privatization in
Guinea, IDA asked that all equipment procurement for the IDEC be
suspended.  Then in addition, the President of the contracting company
passed away, and after a period of drift the company is now trying to get
back on its feet again.
All these happenings had a negative impact on progress in this
area.
The various contracts, the firms to whom they were awarded,
the implementation periods, the acceptance dates and other data pertaining
to the works are shown in the annexed tables.
In the context of utilization of the funds available from the
IDA credit, an experimental rural school building program was carried out
with the participation of the local authorities.   In this way 21
classrooms spread over seven sites were built in 1988-90. At the same
time, a study was made of prototype rural classrooms in conjunction with



- 24 -
the UNESCO regional office in Dakar. Twelve classrooms have been built as
part of this study.
Furniture and equilment: All date concerning these items are
presented in the annexed tables.
It is worth noting that the users report the equipment and
furniture supplied to be of good quality.
Moreover, in view of the savings achieved on certain
components, considerable quantities of working materials and consumables
were procured in order to permit normal operation of the different
workshops.
The essential problem lies with the generators purchased for
certain centers. The fact is that their high power (280 kW) makes them
costly to run.  Accordingly, it was decided that for the rest of the
program two small sets would be procured for each center rather than one
large one.
Furthermore, on account of the very limited availability of
electricity, especially in the interior of the country, the donors agreed
to provide financial support for the purchase of fuel to run the
generators. This assistance was to be furnished for a three-year period,
but with the constant increases in fuel costs operation was only covered
for 18 months.
Meanwhile, since IDA and two other donors (FAC and USAID) had
started an education sector adjustment program (PASE) with the Guinean
Government, it was decided that the available funds from the IDA credit
would be- used for starting up this PASE.
A considerable quantity of equipment and furniture was bought
in this way. The data relating to these purchases are also shown in the
annexed tables.
III.        PROJECT COSTS
The total cost estimate for the project jointly financed by
IDA, the ADF and the SPD amounted to US$ 30,200,000.
The details of the project financing by donor are presented
below:



- 25 -
(a)   IDA Financing (as per June 22, 1988)
(in SDR Equivalent)
CATEGORY             APPRAISAL      ACTUAL (1)       DIFFERENCE
I.  Civil Works                     2,000,000    1,837,037.56
II.  Architectural Fees and            900,000      594,478.76
Engineering Fees
III.  Equipment, Supplies             2,625,000   2,364,959.55
and Materials
IV.  Specialist Services             3,900,000   4,196,959.07
and Fellowships
V.  Incremental Operating             345,000      166,602.35
Costs
VI.  Refunding of Project              375,000      374,554.30
Preparation Advance
VII.  Unallocated                        55,000           _
VIII  Special Account (to be                          15,032.27
distributed/Cat. 3-5)
TOTALS                        10,200,000   9,549,623.86        -650,376.14



- 26 -
(b)   ADF Financing
(in FUA)
CATEGORY           APPRAISAL      ACTUAL (1)  | DIFFERENCE
.   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __    ___ _ _ __ _ _          __     (1)
I.  Civil Works              8,513,737.98   8,518,443.74    +4.705.76
II.  Architect's fees           360,000          80,431.02  -279,568.98
III.  Equipment, Supplies      2,840,000       3,398,455.13  +558,455.13
and Materials
IV.  Specialist Services      2,771,102.41   2,109,809.86  -661,292.55
and Fellowships
V. I Operating costs            15,159.61           -        -15,159.61
Total                   14,500,000      14,107,139.75  -392,860.25
(1) As of the first quarter of 1991 (ADF Loan disbursements not completed).
(c)   SFD Financing
(in SRls)
CATEGORY          APPRAISAL      ACTUAL (1)    DIFFERENCE (1)
I.  Construction             15,658,000    8,576,392.66      7,081,607.34
II.  Architect's fees            175,000            _            175,000.00
III.  Equipment, supplies       4,732,000    2,327,002.66      2,404,997.36
and materials
IV.  Specialist services           _
V.  Operating costs
VI.  Repayment                     _
Unallocated               3,435,000                      3,435,000.00
TOTALS                   24,000,000   10,903,395.32    13,096,604.68
(1) As of the first quarter of 1991 (SFD Loan disbursements not completed).



- 27 -
These tables show the percentage utilization of the financings to have been as
follows:
-     IDA   93.6%, thus leaving  6.4% unused
-     ADF   97.29%,   n            2.711   "
SFD   45.432,   "      n    54.57Z
In view of the amounts remaining unused, the African Development Fund and the
Saudi Fund For Development decided to extend the closing dates for their
financings to December 31, 1991 and December 31, 1993, respectively.
IV.         PROJECT RESULTS
A.          General
While the vocational training, education and human resources
planning, primary education, project management, and training seminars and
workshops components have helped to revitalize the education system, certain
aspects still remain to be completed.
(a)   Vocational Training
(i) Tne Labe, Kankan and N'Zerekore CFPs have been completely upgraded,
expanded and provided with furniture, equipment, supplies and working materials,
and miscellaneous consumables and logistic equipment.   The instructors have
benefitted from fellowships and study trips.
(ii)  The ENSET has received equipment, working materials,  specialist
services, and fellowships to support its regular training programs. The entire
program set up at this level has been carried out.
(iii) The Central Supply Unit intended for supplying the CFPs with
equipment, parts and working materials has not been set up; only the training
component was carried out, with one staffer receiving a fellowship.
(b)   Education and Human Resources Planning
(i) The Education Planning Directorate has been provided with
infrastructure, equipment, operating funding and has benefitted from fellowships
which have enabled it to strengthen its efficiency and planning capacity.
(ii) The Human Resources Directorate in the ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation responsible for education and training (DEF) has been
furnished and equipped and provided with means for operation, and has also
benefitted  from  fellowships.    Its  capability has  therefore  been  greatly
strengthened.



- 28 -
(c)   ImDrovem2nt of the Oualitv of Primary Education
Mi) The National Pedagogic Institute has been entirely renovated,
expanded, furnished, equipped, provided with miscellaneous fungible items
(supplies and office equipment) and two vehicles (one for the Pedagogic Support
Department and another for the Director); the Curricula Division received the
scheduled technical assistance while the Guinean personnel benefitted from
fellowships and/or study trips. (See Annex IV).
The curricula for primary and secondary education were established
in 1984 and adjusted in 1987, following an experimental period. Printing and
transportation problems prevented their general introduction and evaluation
following the 1984-90 interim period, as set by the National Education
Conference. It would be desirable for this activity to be continued so that each
teacher and each school can be provided with the vital tools represented by
curricula and syllabi.
Out of 17 manuals in manuscript form, 3 have been edited, printed and
distributed, but the request submitted to IDA -- and accepted -- that the
production of the reading and language manual be covered by the funds available
from the credit, in addition to the planned 17 titles, has not produced results.
This is why it would be desirable that the requirements concerning
textbook production be rigorously obssrved and that compliance with the relevant
clauses be periodically evaluated.
Textbook Purchases
Title/Level           Quantity       Project         Publisher       Number
procedure                       received
1.  Arithmetic Ist Year        90,000   Int.Comp.Bid.         Foreign         89,058
2.        n     2nd Year       60,000    n    n   "               n           60,660
3.   Language + Reading        60,000          n   nn                         57,700
2nd Year                                                                59,936
4.  French 3rd lear            60,000
TOTAL              270,000                                        267,354
These books, ordered in September 1989, were not delivered till
January 1991, with a three-month distribution delay; in other words, it took two
years to receive an order placed using the current procedure.   It would be
desirable to simplify the procedure at this level in the interest of the
education system.
Regarding training, we have already noted above that the entire
program set up has been carried out in both the IPN divisions and at the IDEC.



- 29 -
(ii) The IDEC component was only able to post completion of the
infrastructure items which, while started in 1986 were not finished until three
years later, in 1989, whereas the original schedule called for them to be
executed in eight months.   The difficulties connected with the slow pace of
execution of the works, due to concerns about a possible change of status and
supervisory authority, the deterioration of the equipment in place during the
execution of the infrastructure, and the blocking of this component resulting in
items originally included not being carried out, contributed to the IDEC's
capacities being curtailed more than in the past. For the same reasons, this
component never received the planned technical assistance.
Today, the IDEC forms part of the IPN and we have highly qualified
human resources at this level. To remedy the Guinean education system's severe
textbook shortage, we suggest that the Educational Printing Office component be
taken into consideration in the PASE.
(iii)  The Lab6 and Kankan ENIs have beer. entirely renovated, expanded and
provided with furniture, equipment and consumables, and have benefitted from
fellowships for the teaching staff (see Annex IV).
(d)   ProJect Manazement
(i) Everything was executed at this level except for the funding for
incremental operating costs, which was halted. Since the World Bank had been the
only source that was funding these costs, the Government found itself suddenly
deprived of these resources while at the same time the other two donors (ADF and
SFD), whose agreements did not include provision for this expenditure, extended
the closing dates for their financings to December 31, 1991 and December 31,
1993, respectively.
The Project Unit received short-term or permanent technical
assistance from expatriate experts together with fellowships for training courses
and study trips, which greatly helped toward strengthening its project execution
capacity.
(ii) The Third Project never materialized. It was replaced by the PASE.
The funds and specialist services that were to be used for preparation of a third
project were utilized in setting up the PASE.
(e)   Seminars
All the seminars programmed were conducted and enabled the training
of a large number of teaching staff, thus contributing to strengthening of the
efficiency of the education system's capacities.



- 30 -
B.          Project Imnact
1.          Vocational Trainina
Three CFPs (Lab6, Kankan and N'Zerekor6), all rehabilitated, expanded
and fully equipped, have made it possible to raise the total technical education
capacity to 3,393 students as compared with 2,771 in 1983, hence an increase of
22X.   The security of ENSET has been assured thanks to construction of a
protective wall.
The training effort has been quite outstanding. Between 1983 and
1990, 17 staffers received training abroad; these benefitted from fellowships for
two to 10-month courses and 15 study trips.
At the local level, 382 skilled workers were trained in the different
centers, to the great benefit of the Guinean labor market.   The work of 12
technical assistance experts made it possible to raise the skill level of their
Guinean counterparts through the quality of the preparation of teaching documents
and the thoroughness with which the courses were taught at the Matoto ENSET.  In
this way, 110 Assistant Technical Instructors (PTAs) have been trained and 227
are currently in training.
If the Faranah CFP, now nearing completion, and the Central Supply
Unit, not executed, are disregarded, it can be stated that the Second Education
Project achieved its objectives in this subsector and has had a positive impact
on Guinea's education and socio-professional system.
2.          Education and Human Resources Planning
The rehabilitation of a two-story building that is fully furnished,
with functioning equipment, computerized services and 13 staff members trained
abroad, has helped to give the Education Planning and Human Resources subsectors
in the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation a greatly enhanced
capability in preparation of the school map and alignment of training on the
country's employment and human resource requirements.   One highly competent
expert worked very hard in this subsector and his efforts made it possible to
raise the staff's skills, and helped to make them more efficient in the
performance of their duties.
3.          Improvement of the Ouality of Primary Education
The construction of the two-story IPN complex and of two ENIs, with
provision of furniture and excellent equipment so that working conditions for the
staff employed in them are outstanding, the training abroad of 30 staffers who
received fellowships aLnd benefitted from 10 study trips, with operation dynamized
by the supply of consumables, transportation equipment, fuel and lubricants for
the different echelons plus the capable technical assistance personnel, all
served to further the impact of the Second Education Project here, which would
have been even greater if the IDEC component had been finalized, since this would
have made possible the printing of the 17 textbooks programmed.



- 31 -
4.          Prolect Management
The Projects Directorate was completely renovated, equipped and
provided with consumables and transportation equipment. Twelve staff members
benefitted from training courses abroad and three made study trips. Two experts
participated in the training of local staff and in the management of the project.
All of these contributions helped to enhance the skills of the staff and to make
the directorate function more efficiently in managing
projects.
5.          CONCLUSION
The benefits received by Guinea from the Second Education Project are
undeniable. Among other things, it has helped to upgrade our education system
by training effective primary teachers and vocational instructors, producing
skilled workers to meet the demand for qualified labor capable of contributing
positively toward improvement of living conditions in Guinea. It must also be
noted with satisfaction that this project enabled the Project Unit to acquire
effective means for the preparation, execution and monitoring of future projects,
and the planning offices to develop the desired competence and efficiency in the
performance of their respective tasks in the Ministry of Education and the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1341-GUI)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.          Related IDA Credits
Title   and   Year   of
Approval                    Amount and Obiective         Status and Comments
Credit 1837-GUI             SDR 15,100,000               Credit  effective  since
March 11, 1988
He a 1 t h    Services   The project will support   Disbursement    (as   of
Development Project         Government's efforts to   9 / 1 3 1 9 1 ) :       SDR
1987                        (a) develop planning and   6,885,820.17
management capabilities
within the Ministry of   (i) Central Planning and
Hea'th   and   introduce   Management: (a) Mid-Term
p o 1 i c y       a n d   evaluation    indicates
administrative   reforms   good    progress    in
to improve the quality   developing central level
and efficiency of basic   capacity in planning and
health    services,   human    resource    and
including    f amily   financial    management.
planning;  (b)  improve   However, local training
basic health care in the   has  experienced  delays
region of Middle Guinea;   due in part to location
(c) strengthen financial   of central training unit
and    operational   and   lack   of   local
management in the region   training    teams    to
of Middle  Guinea;  and   execute    training
(d) develop and evaluate   efforts.        Lack   of
c o0s t    recovery   counterpart  funds  has
activities.                 resulted  in  inadequate
financing for recurrent
needs    at    health
facilities.
(ii) Regional Services:
While   health   center
supervision appears to
be  adequate,  hospital
management system needs
to    be    strengthened



- 34 _
considerably.       Cost
recovery    in    health
centers    relatively
successful but hospital
tariff structure
inadequate.   New tariff
structure    to    be
introduced   once
rehabilitation    and
equipping of facilities
completed. Intermittent
shortages   in   certain
drugs at some health
facilities.     Regional
management    of    drug
supply   introduced   to
avoid   oversupply   or
undersupply   of   some
drugs.
Credit 2155-GUI            SDR 15,400,000              Credit  effective  since
November 14, 1990.
Education    Sector   The credit would support   Disbursement    (as   of
Adjustment Project          implementation   of   a   9 / 13 /9 1):          SDR
1990                       comprehensive package of   3,045,109.39
educational    policy
reforms,    aimed    at   S i n c e    c r e d i t
preventing    a    major   effectiveness,   project
deterioration   of   the   implementation  has  not
education   system   and   advanced   as   planned.
creating a basis for the   First, counterpart funds
sector to contribute to   have   not   been   made
m e d i u m - t e r m   available    by    the
s o c i o e c o n o m i c   Treasury to the Ministry
development,    to    be   of Education and second,
achieved  through:  (a)   the    Ministry    of
improving    sector   Education's   "Direction
strategy formulation and   d e s    A f f a i r e s
managerial capacity; (b)   Administratives    et
rationalizing    public   Financieres (DAAF) I has
expenditure    in    the   failed to institute the
sector; (c) launching a   required  administrative
primary    school   and    accounting
construction    and   procedures   to   ensure
rehabilitation  program;   that the budget can be
(d)    increasing    the   spent quickly and that
relevance  of  education   expenditures    are
to employment prospects,   appropriately monitored.
and the economic needs   The problem in the DAAF
of the country; and (e)   is  due   in  part  to
addressing gender issues   USAID's    failure    to
with programs of special   provide timely technical
emphasis.                   assistance to strengthen



- 35 -
the   unit's   financial
management    and
accounting    capacity.
Unless    these    two
problems are resolved
immediet=ly and sector
expenditures  begin  to
increase as programmed,
Government will not be
able to comply with the
P A S E c r e d i t
conditionality by the
time of tranche review
(November 1991).
2.    Proiect Timetable
Date Planned       Date Actual
Pre-Identification Mission                               October 22-27, 1979
Sector Study                                             February 1980
Identification Mission                                   (Not available in Files)
Preparation Mission                                      March 5-27, 1981
Appraisal                                                Jan. 23-Feb. 11, 1982
Credit Negotiations                                      Feb. 25-March 1, 1983
Board Approval                                           March 29, 1983
Credit Signature                                         April 26, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                 August 24, 1983   December 20, 1983
Credit Closing    (1)                December 31, 1988 December 31, 1990
Final Disbursement                                       August 8, 1991
(1)   The Closing date was postponed to December 31, 1989 on July 9, 1989 and to
December 31, 1990 on January 9, 1990.
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of SDR)
IDA Fiscal Year
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Appraisal Estimate        .9   3.2   7.4   8.9   9.9   10.2
Actual                    .6   2.0   3.1   4.0   4.3    5.4   7.4   9.55
Actual as Z of
Estimate               66.62 62.52 4.182 44.9% 43.4% 52.9% 72.52 93.6%
Note:  An undisbursed amount of SDR 0.65 million was cancelled.



- 36 -
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millionis of US$)
IDA Fiscal Year          1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Appraisal Estimate       1.0   3.5   8.0   9.6   10.7  11.0
Actual                     .6   2.0   3.2   4.3    4.8   6.2   8.8  11.7
Actual as X
Estimate               60.0% 57.12 40.0% 44.8Z 44.9Z 56.42 80.0% 100.0%
4.          Proiect Implementation
Indicators                            ADpraisal Estimate       Actual
Rehabilitation of 4 CFPs
Labe                     September 1985           June 1986        (1)
N'Zerekore               September 1985           March 1987       (2)
Kankan                   September 1985           October 1989   (3)
Faranah                  (not scheduled)       (to be completed) (4)
Rehabilitation of the IPN             June 1985                September 1985 (5)
Rehabilitation of the IDEC            June 1984                October 1989   (6)
Rehabilitation of 2 ENIs
Labe                     June 1985                February 1988  (7,
Kankan                   June 1985                October 1989   (8)
Rehabilitation of the DPE             December 1983            May 1988        (9)
(1)   Delays due to the length of the competitive bidding procedure.
(2)   As above  (single contract for CFPs Labe and N'Zer6kore)  and access
difficulties.
(3)   Communication  problems  with  the  financier,  delays  in  start-up  of
competitive bidding procedure and misunderstanding of donor payment
procedures.
(4)   Delays in architectural studies and payments.
(5)   Additional works.
(6)   Start-up delays associated with uncertainties as to the ownership of the
site and the future of the institution, contracting firm's internal
problems, and payment delays.
(7)   Additional works related to the rehabilitation of a practice primary
school and construction of housing for the ENI.
(8)   Idem (3).
(9)   Start-up delays, contracting .. rm's internal problems, and payment delays.
Note: A comparative implementation timetable is given in Annex I.



- 37 -
5.          Proiect Costs and Financing
5.A         Prolect Costs
Catezory                              Amounts in thousands of USS
ADpraisal estimate       Actual costs       Difference in Z
Civil works               15,494                19,356              +24.9%    (1)
Furniture and equioment   5,304                  8,160              +53.8%    (2)
Professional fees          1,609                 1,206              -25.0S    (3)
Specialist services        5,744                 6,325              +10.1%    (4)
Fellowships                1,407                 1,760              +25.1%    (5)
Operating costs              531                   229              -56.9Z    (6)
Local seminars                106                   179             +68.9%    (7)
Total                     30,195                37,215              +23.2%
Note: The costs expressed in Guinean Francs are not available for the complete
project (see Part I, para. 12.3).
(1)   Scope of works exceeding appraised project (see para. 4 above).
(2)   Idem (1) and preparation of the PASE.
(3)   Studies partly done by the SCTP.
(4) ENSET assistance and preparation of the PASE.
(5)   Overrun for all components (see Annex II).
(6) Lower as a whole for all components.
(7) PASE preparation and start-up.
5.B         Project Financing
Appraisal         Actual      Difference in
Source                 Unit         Estimate      Disbursement          Z
IDA           (1)       SDR        10,200,000     9,549,623.86         -6.42
ADF            (2)      FUA        14,500,000       14,107,138         -2.72
SFD           (3)       SR1        24,000,000      10,903,395         -54.52
Government    (4)       US$         3,410,000       1,061,242         -68.82
(1)   Contribution equivalent to US$11 million at the time of appraisal.
(2)   Contribution  equivalent  to US$11,720,000  at the  time of appraisal;
disbursements to continue until December 31, 1991.
(3) Contribution equivalent to US$4,070,000 at the time of appraisal;
disbursements to continue until December 31, 1993.
(4)   Guinean contribution converted into US dollars for the sake of comparison,
given the change in currency on January 6, 1986, from the Syli to the
Guinean Franc.



S.C                      ALLOCATION OF THE IDA CREDIT BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
Initial Allocation                                           Amendment of June 22, 1988                                    Actual
Amounts
Amounts                                                       Amounts                            disbursed as of
Allocated   X of Expenditures                                  Allocated    % of Expenditures      August 8, 1991    Difference
(in SDR)      to be Financed                                  (in SDR)       to be Financed           (in SGR)           in %
1. Civil Works for          1,800,000           80X           1 - Civil Works                 360,060         100%                  241,973.30         -19.4%
Parts C(1), C(ii)                                            (a) Part C(iv) of
and D(i) of the                                              the Project
Project                                                      (b) Parts B(i), C(i),      1,700,006          90%                1,S95,084.26           -6.2X
C(l), and D(i)
2. Architectural and        1,200,000         100%            2. Architectural and            900,000         100%                  694,478.76         -33.9%
Engineering Fees for                                         Engineering Fees
Parts A(i), C and D
of the Project
3. Equipment for Parts      1,37060,6         100%            3. Equipment, supplies        2,625,600         100%                2,364,959.56         -10.0X
Parts A(iii), 8, C(;)                                        and materials.
and C(ii) of the
Project and Furniture
for Parts A(iii), B,
C(i) and C(ii) of the                                                                                                                                      oo
Project.
4. Specialist Services      3,850,060         100%            4. Specialist Services        3,900,660         10%x                4,198,969.07          +7.8X
for Parts A(iii), B,                                         and Fellowships
C(i), C(ii) and 0 of
the Project and Fellow-
ships for Parts A(ii),
B, C and D of the
Project.
5.  Incremental Operating     240,66            s6oX          S. Incromental Operating        345,060          80%                  166,602.35          -61.7X
Costs for Parts A(i),                                        Costs for Parts A(i),
B, C and 0 of the                                            B  C and D of the
Project.                                                     Project
6. Refunding of PPF           646,000                         6. Refunding of PPF             376,000                               374,564.30           6.1%
7.  Initial Disbursement        5660W                         7. Initial Disbursement        (16,000)                               15,032.27
to Special Account                                           to Special Account
8. Unallocated              1,040,000                         6. Unallocated                   6S,000                                        0
TOTAL                 10,200,000                           TOTAL                      10,200,000                             9,649,623.86          -6.4X
Amount to be cancelled:                650,376.14



- 39 -
6.         Project Results
6.1        FELLOWSHIPS AND SPECIALIST SERVICES
Fellowships     Specialist Services
(months)          (months)
Objectives                  Planned   Actual    Planned   Actual       Comments
=            =        =        =            ==  3==    ==    =                            =        _       =
CFP    Preparation of vocational             21        22                          Training Is completed.
training progras
ENSET  Preparation of vocational             136       91         17        23     Training objective partially
training curricula and                                                      completed. Evaluation and
equipment standardization                                                   revision of curricula not
implemented.
DGPE   (a) enhance the gathering              s6       32         80        82     Most of the objectives have
of statistical dota.                                                        bsen met.
(b) study vocational                                                        Manpower studies have not
training development,                                                       boen carried out.
(c) undertake a tracer                                                      The adaptation of teaching
study of graduates.                                                         to manpower needs was not
achieved.
IPN    Setting-up of programs,              116       16S        136       157     Objectives partially met.
training of teachers,                                                       The production of teaching
editing and production                                                      materials was achieved but
of textbooks.                                                               its distribution was limited
to Conakry. Teacher training
completed.
ENI    Enhance the methodology of            124       84                          Most of the objectives related
general school subjects,                                                    to training have been met.
Science and French
DPE    Project management. Upgrading          24       45         87        98     A few important management
of institutions, procurement,                                               weaknesses still exist. Objectives
building design, supervision                                                partially met.
of works, specialist services
and fellowships.



- 40 -
6.2     TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION
Objectives                     Planned      Actual       Comments
Textbook Production                     1,218,000   about 460,000  See Part I, pas. 6.10.
Average production cost per book           USS.78       USS.76
Cost per complete set
First Grade                           USS.78       USS.76
Last Grade                           USt3.91   not availablo
6.3     INFRASTRUCTURE
Average
Planned      Actual       Unit Cost
Objectives                       m2 1/       m2 1/          per m2   Comments
______= ===== = 
Labe        CFP * ENI                       4,660       10,019          USS736   Supplementary works added by ADF:
Rehabilitation of a practice
primary school; construction of
a multipurpose hall and of six
staff houses.
Kankan      CFP * ENI                       3,414        3,630          USS486
N'Zerekore  CFP                             2,890        4,242        USS1,281   Supplementary works added by ADF:
construction of a multipurpose
hall and three staff houses.
Conakry     IPN                             1,878        2,520          USS761   Construction of extension to
main building.
Cortakry    IDEC                              984          967          USS622
Conakry     DPE                               415          540          USSSO0   Rehabilitation oxtended to
adjacent area of some building.
1/ Global area (rehabilitation + new construction).
NO: The actual unit costs reflect the impact of distance factors as well
as the down trend resulting from increased competition in the construction
sector (see also implementation schedule in Annex I).



- 41 -
7.       STATUS OF C  DIT AOREEMENT COVENANTS
Amendment of
Section            Initial Agreement             June 22, 1988                    Status
2.03               (a) Special Account                                  The Account was blocked
opening.                                             for a two-year period
following * Government
decision, in 1986, to
close down and reorganize
the national banking
system.
(b) Initial amount                                   Amount raised to SDR
SDR 55,000                                           160,000 on December 1,
1988 to facilitate dis-
bursements related to the
preparation of the PASE and
the experimental primary
school construction scheme.
2.05              Closing Date             Extension to                 Extended to December 31, 1990
(December 31, 1988)     December 31, 1989.           on January 8, 1990.
2.08              Payment of commitment                                 Payments sometimes late,
charges.                                             causing partial suspension
of disbursements.
3.01               (b) Counterpart         Raised to OF 18,000,000.   Difficulties in providing
funds.                                               funds, funds blocked for a
period of more than one year.
3.02               (b) Counterpart                                      Qualified counterpart staff
staff.                                               were not always available
when experts arrived.
3.03              Program for the                                       Review available in June
implementation of                                    1985. Manpower study not
policy recommerdations                               carried out.
in the educat;on
sector review and
manpower study.
3.04              (a) CFP admission        Admission conditions and   Conditions set but not
condition set on        duration of training to    followed.
December 31, 1983.       be set on December 31,
1989; implementation
set for the beginning
of the 1990 school year.
(b) Introduction to                                 No new curriculum introduced,
new curricula (begin-                                several streams eliminated.
ning of 1986/88
school year).



- 42 -
7.       STATUS OF CREDIT AGREEMENT COVENANTS
Amendment of
Section            Initial Agreement              June 22, 1988                      Status
8.06               METMFP Central                 Eliminated              Owing to the improvement
Supply Unit                                            In local economic and
supply conditions.
3.06               (a) Reorganization of                                  Done in 1990.
the MPS Education and
Training Division.
3.07               (a) Study on the                                       Study not carried out.
development of                                         Planned under the PASE
vocational training                                   with CIDA's participation.
(June 30, l9ss).
(b) Tracer studies or,         Eliminated             Key studies for the develop-
graduates (IPS and                                    ment of vocational training,
agro-zoot-chnical                                      though...
faculties).
3.08               (a) Establishment of                                   Three toxtbooks published
syllabi and textbooks                                  (calculus, sciences,
for primary programs                                   history) for the third
in the French language.                               year.  Manuscripts available
for 14 other manuals.
(b) Provision of funds                                Budget not established by
for payment of Cuinean                                the Government, payments
authors                                               made using IDA funds.
3.09               (a) Autonomy of the                                    Not achieved.
IDEC
(b) Provision of               Eliminated             Funds reallocated for
sufficient funds for                                   supplies of manuals to the
the IDEC                                               schools and fellowships
for educators.
3.10               (a) ENI admission         Extended to December 31,   Recruitment planned after
conditions (December    1989 for implementation    the second cycle but not
31, 1984)                at the start of the 1990   implemented; transitional
school year.                 period planned until 1994.
(c) Implementation of   Submission of the program  Implementation scheduled for
the revised program      to IDA on December 31,       September 1991.
on October 1, 1986.      1989.
3.11               Study on the re-          Extended to Juno 30,         Two studies done; new
organization of          1989.                         primary training program
primary teacher                                       formulated; now primary
training (June 30,                                     teacher training began
1985).                                                 in January 1991.



- 43 -
7.       STATUS OF CREDIT AGREEMENT COVENANTS
Amendment of
Sectlon            Initial Agreement             June 22, 1988                    Status
3.13              Fellowships                                           Carried out, quality of
training uncertain for text-
book production.
3.15               (d) Project completion                               Submitted with major gaps
report,                                              regarding project costs.
4.01              Project accounts                                      The financial records were
kept by source of financing
but there is no record of
project accounts for all
sources of financing combined
in a single currency.
4.02               Audit                    Ministere du Controls       Completed, often with delays.
d'Etat replaced by
independent auditors
4.03               Maintenance and                                      Maintenance in general ensured;
operation of                                         operations suffering from
facilities included                                  insufficient operating budgets.
under the project.
5.01              Effectiveness of                                      Delayed twice. Delays in
the credit                                           progress related to final-
ization of the other sources
of financing and availability
of contract documents in French.



- 44 -
S.   Use of IDA Rosources
8.A   Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                           Weeks
Through Appasisal                                           116.7
Appraisal 1Irough Board Approval                               6.4
Supervision                                                  93.9
Completion                                                   13.0
Total                                                       228.0
8.6   Missions
Performance
Month/     Number of                           Man-weeks  Rating by
Year       Participants      Specialization   in Field   Type of Problem
Supervision 1                        Jan. 1984           1         A                      1
Supervision 2                        Oct. 1984           2         GE,TP                  2
Supervision 3                        June 1985           1        GE                      1     1  2  2  2
Supervision 4                        Nov. 1985           2         CE,E                   2
Supervision S                        May 1986            2         GE,E                   2     1 2  3  3
Supervision 6                        Oct. 1986           2         GE, A                  3     4233
Supervision 7                        Jan. 1987           1         A                      1     4  2  3  3
Supervision 8                        June 1987           1         A                      1     3  2  3  3
Supervision 9                        Oct. 1987           1         E                      1
Supervision 10                       Nov. 1987           1         A                      1
Supervision 11                       Jan. 1988           2         A,D                    1
Supervision 12                       April 1988          2         A,GE                   1     4  3  3  3
Supervision 13                       July 1988           2         A,GE                   3     3  3  3  3
Supervision 14                       Oct. 1988           4         A,GE,OA,TP             4     2  3  2  2
Supervision 15                       Dec. 1988           2         A,CE                   2
Supervision 16                       March 1989          1         OA                     1     2  3  2  2
Supervision 17                       Jun 1989           na         na                    no     2  3  2  2
Supervision 18                       Oct. 1989           1         OA                     1     2  3  2  2
Completion                           April 1991          3        A,TE,TP                 4
Abbreviations:
Specializations:  AArchitect;  OA=Operations Analyst;   D=Demographer;
E=Economist;  GE=General Educator;  TE=Technical Educator;
TP=Textbook Production Specialist
Performanceo Eva!uation:    1=probl-m-froe or minor problems;    2=moderate problems;
3=major problems
Type of Problems:        F=financing;,   M=Management;   D=Impact on Development;
GG=General Performance



- 45 -
ANNEX I
CUINEA - SECOND EWUCATION PROJECT (Credit No. 1341-CUI)
Comparative Project Timetable
(Civil Work* A Equipement/Furniture; Specialist Services and Fellowshipp  in Annexes II and SSS).
1982        1483         1984         1985        1986         1987         1988         1989         1990
CFP (ex IPS)
Civil Works                  PPPPPPCCCCCZP
Labe                EEE  AOAOAOAO        ollaala  alTi aaaaaaa  alaallf 1  i  lliTT TTa
N'z*rekore                EEE   AOAOADAO       oa i iiii      i i i iilill illil l  ii ili
Kankan  :EEEAOO                                                    iii iii ii ii I a a as I I I I a  i    a
1/            Faranah                                                                               E      ADO SO1T1TTf111rwT m :TT
Equipment/Furniture          PPPPPPPPPPPPCCCCCCCCCCCZ
Labe                                                          LLLL          L.               LL    LL      ULl      LL
N'zra,re o    k.I.L                                                             LU                Li    LL      sLll      LL
Kankan                                                                                                :LIiLi.                LLL
1/            Faranah                                                                                                                    UL:LLL
fNSET (x ISFORPET)
______________-----     :
2/Civil Work
DETFP                                                                                                  TTT'ITTTTTT
Equipmsnt/Furniture          PPPPPPPPPPPPCCCCCCXXXX)OOOOX
LLU                                     LLL
Central Supply L'nit
Equipment/Furniture          PPPPPPPPPPPPCCCCCCCCCXXOaOOOXX
(Workiavg Materials)                                                                                                  I I t I  U_L
SSPE (ex DOPE)
3/Civil Works           :                                                                                             T-1-1-r1-lT-1-1 1-1 1 rT    T :T
Equipment/Fu rn i tu re      PFPPPPPPPPPCCCCCCXXXXXX
| [|  |t | 1 l                                      LLL    : 1 LLL
Human Res. Planning
Equipment/Fu rn ture         PPPPPPPPPPDPCCCCCCXXXXXX
Ul1111 LL
IPN
Civ;l Works                  PPPPPPCCCCPPC      C
EE  AOAO          STT'ITTTl-llTrrr
Equipment/Furniture          PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPCCCCCPCPPcOcOOOcc
1  L..i..i  L LiL  l               UL         Li    LL    :Li
IDEC
Civil Works                  PPPPPPCCCCCCXOO0OXXXXXXX
EE AOAO     SblflFaaIaar I i?T TTT T17
4/Equipment/Furniture           PPPPPPcccCCOOOOOOO0CCxxC
: I
Civil Works                  PPPPPPCCCCCC C_X
Labe                EEE   AOAOAOAO      Sia
Kankman                                        PfFAOO        oaa,, ara                            a
Equipmeent/Furni ture        PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPCCCCCCXXX)O(XXXXXX
Labe                                                                      L                           LULL L   LL
Kankan                                                                                                  LLU_LLL   LL
SCTP (ex DPE)
Civil Works           :      PPPPPPCCCCCCXXXXXX
EE  AOAO     S   a  a iii  F IF   F i    F F  I  a  F
Equipment/Furniture          PPPPPl-CCCCCCXXXXXX
LUL                          L.    LLL.  LLL LLLiU_
Primary Schools
3/Experimental Schools                                                                                                     r 1FF Fal  iii 111117 1111111MT
3/Prototype Schools                                                                                                    TTTmTTT
55t5=5tf=f===S===G   ===t==_ 
Planned     Actual                                Notes:  1/  Not originally planned, added under FSD.
-------     ------                                        2/  Not originally planned, added under 009 finaacing.
PPPP        SEEE   Preparation                             3/  Not originally planned, included in J,ne 22, 1988
CCCC        ADAD   Bidding                                        Amendment to IDA Credit Agreement.
XXXX        TTTT   Implementation (Works)                  4/  Originally planned, but cancelled in June 22. 'i88
XXXX        LLL   Supply (Equipment/Furniture)                   Amendment to IDA Credit Agreement.
S      Signature of Contract



OU1NE.A - Second Education Project. (IDA Credit. No.. 1341-OUt)                                                            ANNEX t    I
Tp.
CO?PARATIVE TABLE OP PROJECT COSTS (in thousands of US$)O
Invoetment. Cost.s                                                                                                 Rec~arrant. Costs
flbvvvftt~OtomCf5lf=lltblylfCtffStUllf.lnlnllfftlllSl fS S i Si 5ll n sias5~ al
Architectural and     Specialist.                                   Operating.
Civil Works           Furniture and Equipment. Engineering Fees      Services               Fellowships            Eapena..               Local Ss.minare        TOTAL COST
v.2    0f           5f0          flC                      .a  tSfSfl-M..tSn   SfSfSflSSflft  Sb*fls                                     s                  e
D,ff.                 Diff.                   Diff.                  Diff.                  Duff.                  Duff.                  01ff.                  01ff.
Planned Actual  in I  Planned Actual  in I    Planned Actual  In I   Planned Actual  in I   Planned Actual  in I   Planned Actual  in I   Planned Actu,l  En I   Plamned Actual  En I
Vocatieonal Training          8216.6 10954.4  33.31  3254.6  4504.8  39.31   M8.$  609.7 -22.11  2158.4  2671.1  23.81   346.6  545.6  57.51   244.8   63.7 -74.01          0.0     0.0        15003.8 19379.6  29.2
CFP Kankan                  1871.3  943.9 -49.61   663.5  537.9  -18.91   178.1  179.4  0.71        0.0     0.0           21.0   44.0 109.41    54.0  1ISO -64.91        0.0     0.0         2787.9  1724.2 -86.21
CFP Labe                    3021.8  3027.2  0.21   927.3  1213.3  30.81   287.3  215.2 -2S.12    0.0    0.0               22.1   44.0  99.0   106.6   18.3 -82.61        0.0     0.0         4365.1  4518.0  3.61
CUP Niereliore              3323.5  5 434.8  63.51  1132.0  1312.4  15.91I  317.4  218.2 -32.21     0.0    0.0            22.1   44.0  99.01    84.2   109.  476.4S    0.0       0.0         4879.2  7026.2  44.01
CFP Frarsnh                   0.0  1050.2            0.0  828.3              0.0    0.0             0.0    0.0             0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0     0.0            0.0  1678.4
Central Supply Unit            0.0    0.0            61.0    0.0             0.0    0.0            62.0    0.0            24.3    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0     0.0          127.3    0.0
as"5                           0.0  328.0          490.8  614.2  27.711    0.0    0.0            2106.4  2671.1  26.81   257.1  413.9  61.01    0.0       6.6            0.0     0.0         2844.3  4033.8  41.81
DETFP                          0.0 170.308           0.0   28.7              0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0     0.0            0.0   199.
Improvement 'in the Quality
of Primary Education           7198.4  7867.4  9.31  1704.8  1719.8   0.91   633.5  595.3  -6.01  2009.9  1840.9  -8.41   738.3  768.7  4.11   138.2    6.1 -94.21    84.4   83.0  -1.711 12507.5 12883.2  3.01
841 Kanluan                 2100.5  767.3 -63.61   2154.2  193.8  -23.81   200. 7   179.4 -10.611    0.0    0.0          159.3  159.6  0.21    22.9       3.1 .46.41     0.0     0.0         2745.8  1303.2 -52.51
811I Labs                   2123.0  4,333.9 104.11  254.2  460.7  81.21   200.7  215.2  7.21        0.0    0.0           159.3  159.6  0.21    22.9    3.1 -86.41        0.0     0.0         2760.1  5172.5  87.41
IPN                        2434.0  1917.1 -21.21   362.2  1044.7  188.41   232.1  20b. 7 -13.511 1331.0  781.6 -41.31   322.6  355.6  10.21    68.7       1.8 -97.31    84.4   83.0  -1.71  4835.0  4384.5  -9.31
Educ. Printing Off. (IOEC)  532.9  505.0  -S.21   834.2   20.6  -97.51       0.0    0.0           678.9  1059.3  56.01    97.1   93.9  -3.31    23.7      0.0            0.0     0.0         2166.8  1678.8 -22.51
Eaparimental Primary          0.0  254.4             0.0    0.0              0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0     0.0            0.0  254.4
Schoolsa
Prototype Primary Schools     0.0  99.78             0.0    0.0              0.0    0.0             0.0    0.0             0.0    0.0             0.0     0.0            0.0     0.0            0.0   59.8
Fducation and Human
fteeources Planning              0.0  229.1           126.8  165.7  30.71       0.0     1.4          S13.7  304.8 -40.71   251.2  301.6  20.01    28.0   19.2 -31.51    21.4   55.8 160.91   941.1  1077.5  14.51
Planning Director (MMEJ)       0.0  229.1           78.2  131.6  68.31       0.0    1.4           407.0  304.9 -25.11   126.1  231.1 83.31    17.8   19.2   7.81    21.4   55. 8 160.91  650.5S  973.0  49.61
Planning O'r.ctor (NPCI)      0.0    0.0             48.6   34.1  -29.01     0.0    0.0           106.7    0.0           125.1   70.4 -43.71I   10.2    0.0              0.0     0.0          290.6  104.5 .44.01
Project Management.             78.7  305.7 288.51   218.4  1739.7  696.61   192.9    0.0           1062.0  1508.4  42.01    71.5  144.2 101.71   119.6  138.0  15.41       0.0   39.7          1743.1  3875.8 122.319
Tech. Cooperation and        79.7  269.9 242.91   218.4  449.1  1C5.61       0.0    0.0           890.8  1232.1  38.31    71.5  144.2 101.71   119.6   63.5 -46.91      0.0      0.0         1379.0  2158.7 56.51
Projects Office (SCTP)
Project. Prepsration (PASE)   0.0   35.9             0.0  1290.6           192.9    0.0           171.2  276.3  61.411    0.0      0.0            0.0   74.5             0.0   39.7           364.1  1717.1 371.61
TOTAL COST                    15493.7 19356.7 24.91  5304.6  8160.0  53.011  1609.2  1206.3 -25.01  5744.0  6325.1  10.11  1407.6  1760.4  25.11N  530.6  228.9 -56.911  105.8e  178.6  68.81 30195.5 37216.0  23.31



CUINEA - Second Education Project (IDA Credit 1341-CUI)                                                                     ANEX III
CowPARATIVE TABLE OF SPECIALIST SERVICES (estimated/actually used)
TAOLEAU COMPARATIF DES SERVICES DE SPECIALISTES DE L'ASSISTANCE TECNI*JIUE (prevus/utiliwas)
Estimated in the Appraisal Report                           Actually used
Prevue dane I- rapport d'evaluation                         Utilises
Number of    Local         Number      Starting             Number of    Local          Number      Starting
Specialists  Expatriates  of Nonths   Date                  Specialists  Expatriat,s  of Months  Data
Project Components/         Specialty                          Nombre de    Cuineena      Nombre      Date do              Noabr, de    Cuineena       Nobre        Date de
Composantes du projet       Specialite                         specialistes Expatri*s    do Moi*    desarrege               specialists. Expatries    do  o;is      demarrage
A. Technical Instructor   Carpentry and joinery                      I             E           24         7/83                    2             E           12       8/85-8/86
Training Institute/         instructor/Eapert on                                                                                                            22       3/85-7/88
In-ti;tut Superi.ur de      menuiserie
Formation de*
Professeura de              Iatonry instructor/                      1             E           24         7/83                    1            E            35       8/85-7/88
I 'Enseign*ment             Expert en meconnrie
Superiour (ISFORPET)
Mechanical workshop                      1            E            24        7/83                    1             E            36      8/85-e/91
Instructor/Expert en
mecenique generale
Plumbing instructor/                     I            E            24        7/83                    1             E            34      9/87-9/9D
Expert en plomberie
Automotive trades                        I            E            36        7/83                    2             E            36      8/85-7/88
instructor/Empert on                                                                                                            12      1/81-9/90
mecanique auto
Sheet metal welding                     I             E           36         7/83                    1             E           34       9/87-7/90                               .4
instructor/Expert en
chsudronnerie et
charpent  etal I ique
Instructor for heavy                    I             E           36         7/83                    1             E           33       3/86-6/89
sachinery/Inatructeur
engine travoum publics
8. Central Supply Unit/   Store manager/                             I            E            6         10/84                   0             -            0
Fagasin Central            CGetionnaire de stock
C. CGneral Education        Educational planning                     I            E            6         10/83                    1            L            8       8/89-3/90
Planning Directorate/       specialiet/Specialiste
Direction CGnerale de       en planification do
Ia Planification de         I'education
I'Education (DOPE)
Consultants for higher                  3             E            6         4/84                    1             L           8        8/89-3/90
education, vocational
and tracer studieas/
Consultants pour *tude.
our I'ense;gnement
superisur. Is develop-
pement de I 'ense;gnemant
technique at la devenir
des sleves



CUINEA - Second Education Project (IDA Credit 2341-il)                                                                   AtNEX III
pag* 2
COMPARATIVE TABLE OF SPECIALIST SSWVICES (estisated/actually used)
TABLEAU COMPARATIF DES SawICES DE SPECIALISTES DE L'ASSISTANCE TEO4NIQUE (prevus/utilisos)
Estimated in the Appraissl Report                          Actually used
Pr-vus done Is rapport d'evsluation                        Utiliess
Number of    Local        Numer        Starting            Number of    Local         Number       Starting
Specimliets Expatriates of Monthn   Date                   Specialists  E.patr:ates of Months   Dato
Project Coeaponnte/         Specialty                         Noabre de    Cuineons      NoAbre      Date de             Noabr  do    Cuineens       Nombre      Date de
Coposantes du projet        Specialite                        epeialietes Espatriee    do mois      domrrage             specialistes Expstries    do mois    desrrage
statistics and planning for
local training/Consultants
pour la formation du personnel
local on statiatiques at
planificstion
D.  luman Resources        Consultants in manpower                  3            E            10       10/83                    1            L            a       2/89-9/89
Planning/Planification      statistics and planning/                                                                                                     3        10/89-1/90
d*e Ressource*             Consultants pour lee                                                                                                          5       10/89-5/90
Humsines                    statiatiques et Ia planification
do I 'ducation/formation
E. National Pedagogical   Curriculum development                    1            E            24       10/83                    1            E           23       3/86-6/89
Inatitute/lnstitut         specialist/Expert en
Pedagogique National        elaboration des program*s
(IPN)                                                                                                                                                                                                    J.
Initial and in-service teacher          1            E           24         9/84                   1             E           11       1/84-12/84                             >
training apecialiet/EpoIrt
en formation et recyclags
d*s maitr*s
Teutbook editing specialist/            1            E            36       10/83                    1            E            54      12/84-6/89
Expert en edition des manuel,
Textbook production specialist/         1            E            24       10/83                    1            E            15      3/87-6/89
Expert en production des
manuals
Consultants for local staff             6            E           8          1/84                   2             E            12     5/85-5/86
training in experimentation,                                                                                                 30      2/87-1/89
evaluation, methodology of
teaching and for organizing IPN
documentation/Consultants
pour Is formation de personnel
local pour experimentation,
evaluation, methodologie et
orgeniestion do Is documentation
de I'IPN



OJINEA - Second Education Project (IDA Credit 1341-CUI)                                                                       ANE  I1I
page 3
COWPARATIVE TA8LE OF SPECIALIST SERVICES (est;,atsd/actual Iy used)
TABLEAU COPARATIF OES SeWICES DE SPECIALISTES DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHIIUE (pr*vus/utilises)
Estimated in the Appraisal Report                             Actually used
Prevus done to rapport d'evoluat;on                          Utilises
Number of    Local         Number       Starting             Nurber of    Local          Number       Starting
Specislisto  Expatriate*  of Months   Data                   Specialists  Expatriates of Months   Date
Project Coeponents/          Specialty                          Nomro de    Cuineens        Noobre       Date de              Oo.bre de    Cuineens       Noebre       Data de
Coazoaant,.s du proj;t       Specialito                         epecislist#s Etpotrios    de mola        demarrsge            epecislietes Expatries    do mois        d.marrasg
F.  Educational Printing   Printing techniquo specialist/              I            E            60         7/83                    0             -            0
Office/Isprimerio de         Specialists des techniques
IEducation *t de           de limprimerie
la Culture (IDEC)
Consultant. for textbook                  3            E            5          1/84                    0             -            0
storage and distribution
and equipment aintonancoe
Conuultants pour la otockag.
et distribution des manuel.
at formation  ta maintenance
des oquipeents
0.  Education Projects      Managerial sssistant/                      1            E            36         7/83                    I             E            36         84-87
Directortet/Diirection des  Costionnaire
Projets Education (OPE)
Arnhitect/Architecto                     I             E            42         7/82                    1             E                24  2/87-1/89
Consultsnts/Consultants                  4             E            9          7/82                    1             E                36  3/84-3/87



GJINEA - Second Education Project (IDA Credit No. 1341-CWI)                                                                     ANNEX IV
page 1
COWHARATIVE TA8LE OF TRAININC FELLOWISHIPS (*sti.ated/actually used)
TABLEAU CCWARATIF DES 8OURSES DE PERECTIOMEMENT (pravues/uti  sa..)
Estimated in the Appraisal Report                    Actually used
Prevu*s dans 1- rapport d'ev*luation                 Utilis.*.
Local        Number       Starting                   Local         Number       Starting
Abroad       of Months   Date          Number        Abroad        of Months   Date
Project Components/             Field of Training                    Number        Locales       Nombre       Date -d                    Locales       Nobre        Date de
Couposantes du projet           Nature du perfectionnement           Nombra        A I 'otranger do Pois      demarrage   NoAbre         A I 'etranger d- mo;&      demarrage
A. Tecbnical Instructor         Management of vocational                    I             A            1        7/83             2             E         (191)m2    2/89-3/89
Training Inatitute/             teacher training inatitutions/
In*titut Superiour do          Cection d'un inetitut d*
Formation des Professeura       formation de profossure
de I'Enaeigntment
Technique (ISFORPET)            Training method, for vocational             9             A           81        10/83           11             A            65       7/86-7/90
teachers in respective
spci*alty/Formation de
forsteur- dons lee epecialitoa
retenuca dons So projet
Organisation and implemntation             2             A            20        10/83            1             A            10      9/86-7/87
of equipment maintenance in vo-
cational schools/Organisation
et mi- en oeuvr- de Is
maintenance des *quipemintI
a IISFORPET et dans lea IPS
Us and operation of photo                   I            A            3         10/83            0             -            0            -
la aas support for vocational
teacher training/Utiligation
d'un laboratoir. photo pour
l'elaboration de materiel
didaectique
8.  Vocetionel Training        Managemnt of vocational edu-                3             A            3         10/83            5             A         (4X1)=4    4/89-9/89
Institutes/Inatituts           cation A training/Cestlon des
Polytechniques Secondair*o    IPS de Labe. KInken et
(IPS)                          N'Z.rokore
Practical workshop skills                  3             A            18        10/83            4             A         (4X6)=24   1/89-6/89
training in vocational
achoola/Planification at
contr8le des travaux pra-
t;ques
C.  Central Supply              Organization and management                1             A            10        10/83            0             _            0
Unit/lMagesin Central           of a central unit for pur-
chasing, storage and dis-
tribution of educational
materiels/Organisation
de geation du magasin
central d'equipement et
mati*re d'oeuvre



CJINEA - Second Education Project (IDA Credit N. 1341-CUI)                                                                  ANE   IV
page 2
COWPARATIVE TABLE OF TRAINING FELLOWSHIPS (astimatodaectually used)
TABLEAU COWMARAT IF DES BOtISES DE PERFECTIONNEMEIT (prevuscauti I i ses)
Estimated in the Appraical Report                  Actuatly used
Prevues done le rapport divaluation                Utiligoge
Local        Nusber      Starting                  Local        Number       Starting
Abroad       of Months  Date          Number       Abroad       of Month.   Data
Project Componento/            Field of Training                   Number       Local**       Nonbro      Data do                   Localte      Noebr*       Date do
Coaposantos du projot          Nature du parfectionn"ent           Nombre       A I'strangor do  ooi      decarrage   Nombro        A I'stranger de mois    demarrago
0.  Cenral Education           Educational planning with a               4             A           40       10/83            8            L        (9.SX8).76  1/85-10/85
Planning Directorate/          specialization (school mapping.
Direction Conerale             statisticsa  cost and financing.
de ia Planification            vocational train ng)/Plani-
do I'Education (DCPE)         fication de Ieducation avec
une specialioation
Education and career coun-                1            A            10       10(83           0             -           0
:eling/Orientation scolaira
et univoeritaire
Educational planning/                    30            L           1.5       4/85            0             -           0
Planification do P'oducation
E. Human Reourcee             Education planning w;th a                  2            A           20        10/83           0             _           O
Planning/Planificetion        specialization (vocational                                                                                                                                           U'
dee roaaources humain.,        training, coot and financing)/
Planification de Il'education
avec oe specialieation
Manpower planning/                        2            A            20       10/84           0             -           0
Previsions do main-d'oeuvre
Manpower statistics/                      1            A            10       10/83           0             -           0
Statiotiques beaoino
main-d'oeuvre
F. National Pedasgoical       Curriculum dewelopaent/                    2            A           20        9/82            1             A           12      1/90-12/90
Instituto/Inetitut Pods-      Elaboration des prograesma
gogique National (1P")
Evaluation techniqus/                     2            A            20       9/82             1            A           6        1/85-6/85
Techniquos d'evalustion
Stience teaching methods/                 I            A            10       9/83            2             A        (6*9)o15   1/85-6/85
HNthodologie do P'onseigneeont                                                                                                1/90-10/90
des sciences
lMthematics teaching methods/             I            A            tO       9/83            0             -           0
letihodologie de l'enaeignement
des mathematiques
Teaching mothodas/Mthodologia             2            A           20        9/82            2             A         (6.6)      *0*-8/85
de I'nsnigneamnt



GUINEA - Seoond EducWtion Project (IDA Credit No. l341-UJi)                                                                 ANtE IV
page 3
COMPARATIVE TABLE OF TRAINING FELLWiSHIPS (estimated/ectually used)
TABLEAU COPARATIF D03 8ORSES DE PERFECTIONEDI4ET (prevuee/utilie...)
Estimated in tht Appraisal Report                  Actually used
Prevues dans I1 rapport develuetion                Util;iaes
Local        Number      Starting                  Local        Number       Startinr
Abroad       of Months  Date          Number       Abroad       of Months  Date
Project Components/            Field of Training                   Number       Locales       Nombre      Date de                   Loc,les      Noare        Date de
Co osantes du projet           Nature du perfectionnement          Nombre       A 0IPtranger de mois      de"rrage   Noebte         A I'tranger de ois       demarrage
Teatboob development and                  2             A           20       9/82            2             A          (6*6)      eec-6/85
*di ting/Redsction at edition
des manuels ecoleires
Toatboo  production and control/         2            A            20       9/82             1            A           6         eec-8/85
Production et controls des
manuals ecolsires
Librt;ion/Documentoliste                  I            A            6        9/84             1            A           12       1/89-12/90
It lu.'etratcr/ esainateur                I            A            6        9/82
0. Educational Printing        Electrical/electronic maintenance         1            A            10       10/83            1            A          9.5       1/d5-11/85
Office/leprimeris do           (printing mechinary)/Electro-
I'Education et de to          technique (photooeopo.ition at
Culture (IEC)                  photo-gravure)
Maintenance  echanic/iehcanique           1            A            10       10/83            1            A          9.S       1/85-10/85
de maintenance
Printing *anagsmnt/Ceation                I            A            10       10/83           1             A          9.5       1/85-10/85
de Iimprieri.
Offset and printing press                 I            A            10       10/83           1             A          9.5       1/85-10/8S
specialilt/Technici;n offset
et prease
M. Primary Teacher             Science teaching methodology/             2            A            20       10/83           4             A       (4X6.5)=26  1/85-7/85
Training Col legea/            Methodologie enceignement dei
Ecole Noreales                 seiences
d'Instituteurs/
Institutrices (ENI)
General teaching mthodology/              4            A            40       10/83           1             A          6.5       1/85-7/eS
Methodologie de Ienii,gnement
Curriculum development and                2            A            20       10/83           1             A          6.5       I/88-7/85
evaluation/Elaboration des
programee et evaluation
Methodology of teaching                   2            A            20       10/83           2             A       (2X6.5)=13  1/85-7/85
French/lMthodolog;. du
frncies loangue strangers
Librarian/Documentaliste                  2            A            12       10/83           2             A       (2X6.s) 13  1/85-7/85



CUiNEA - Second Education Project (IDA Cr-dit No. 1341-O.t)                                                                      ANEX IV
Pase 4
COMtPARATYE TABLE OF TRAININ6  FELLOWSHIPS (osteated/actually used)
TABLEAU COtMPARATIF DES BOURSES DE PERFECTIONMIT  (pro-u**/utliIees)
Eetieated ;n the Appraisal Report                    Actually used
Prevues done le rapport d'e.slustian                 Ut ;l; iee
Local        Number       Starting                   Local         Nw&sr        Starting
Abroad       of months  DOte           Number        Abroad        of Mbnth.  Date
Project Components/             Field of Tra;ainig                   Number        Local..       Mombro       Data do                    Locale.       Iombre       Date de
Coopooant*e  du projet          Naturo du perfActionnnent             Nombro        A I'atranger do soos      doerrago   Nombre          A I etr ner ie mois        demrrage
Laboratory technician/                      2             A            12        10163           2             A        (2Xt.S)-13  1/85-7/85
Technicion do IaSborstoiro
1. Education Projects          Bookh**ping/Comptabilite                     I             A            10       9/83             1             A            6       2/39-8/90
DirectorateIDirection
des Projat. Education          Procurement and bidding                      I             A            10       9/83             I             A            9       2/69-1/90
docus-nts/Passation do-
marches at preparation
de appela d offree
Coordination of study                       I            A            4         4/14             1             A            9       2/oi-1/90
(trael )/Di rction (voyages
d etudes)
NEV COIwoENTS RESUiTIN  FROM PROJECT REORIENTATION
NouVELLES COwiDSANTEs INTROOUITES SUITE A LA REORIENTATION u PROJET
....s=mmmssn== ....=....S..=....S.W..se.s..a.ssmm. ..
A. Education Statistics         Education and career                                                                             I             A            a        12/89-8/90
and Planning Directorate/       counseling/Oriontation
Direction de Is Statistiqu*   scolairs
et de Ia Planification ds
I 'Education (OSPE)
8. Technical Teacher Training Hetalwork/"etslleris                                                                               I             A            9      6/89-6/90
Col l"g/Ecolo Noralos
Socondaire d'Ensaignent
Technique (EISET)
C. ENSET                        Librarian-Documentslist/                                                                         I             A            4      3/89-6/89
8ibl iothcaire-Docuoental iat
0. Literacy National            Evaluation of teaching                                                                                         A            4      3/o9-8109
Service/Service                 materials end curricula/
National dAlphabetieation    Evaluation material
didactiqu* et prograwes
E.  Literacy National           Androgogy/Androgogie                                                                             I             A            6       9/89-3/90
Service/Service
National d'Alphabstisation
F. lechnical Cooperation and  Construction site supervision/                                                                     I             A            6       S/89-11/'0
Proj-cts Division/Divi5son    Sui.i do chantier
do t Cooperation Techniqus
ot des Proj*ts (OCTP)



- 54 -
ANNEX V
EXCHANGE RATES
Unite de
Guinean   ADF Unit    Saudi Arabian
SDRs     US$    Sylis    Franc   of Account    Riyal
=_zz==     ==m     ====, e ==n      ==,===        es==
Thx3ugh Appraisal (1)  (March 83)    1    23.0
July 1983                              1    23.3
January 1984                0.96       1    23.8
July 1984                   0.96       1    24.1
January 1985                1.01       1    25.2
July 1985                   1.01       1    23.9
January 1986 (2)            0.94       1                340
July 1986                   0.84       1               360
January 1987                0.83       1                400       0.825        3.75
July 1987                   0.77       1                435       0.789        3.78
January 1988                0.72       1                440       0.722        3.75
July 1988                   0.74       1                460       0.751        3.75
January 1989                0.74       1                550       0.746        3.75
July 1989                   0.80       1                595       0.791        3.75
January 1990                0.76       1                630       0.757        3.75
July 1990                   0.69       1                665       0.743        3.75
January 1991                0.73       1                680       0.702        3.75
(1) March 1983.
(2) The Guinean Franc replaced the Syli on January 6, 1986.



- 55 -
ANNEX V
EXCHANGE RATES
Guinean   ADF Unit    Saudi Arabian
SDRe  US$   Svis    Franc    of Account          Rival
Through Appraisal (1)   1      23.0
July 1983                1     23.3
January 1984       0.96  1     23.8
July 1984          0.96  1     24.1
January 1985       1.01  1     25.2
July 1985          1.01  1     23.9
January 1986 (2)  0.94  1                 340
July 1986          0.84  1                360
January 1987       0.83  1                400        0.825           3.75
July 1987          0.77  1                435        0.789           3.78
January 1988       0.72  1                440        0.722           3.75
July 1988          0.74  1                460        0.751           3.75
January 1989       0.74  1                550        0.746           3.75
July 1989          0.80  1                595        0.791           3.75
January 1990       0.76  1                630        0.757           3.75
July 1990          0.69  1                665        0.743           3.75
January 1991       0.73  1                680        0.702           3.75
(1) March 1983.
(2) The Guinean Franc replaced the Syli on January 6, 1986.



- 56 -
8.    Use of IDA Resources
8.A   Staff In2uts
Stage of Proiect Cycle               Weeks
Through Appraisal                    115.7
Appraisal through Board Approval       5.4
Supervision                           93.9
Completion                            13.0
Total                                228.0
8.B   Missions
Number and                     Performance
Stage of          Month/       Specialization    Days in      Rating by Type
Proiect Cvcle     Year         of ParticiDants   Field        of Problems
F M D G
Supervision 1     Jan. 1984   1 (A)               1
Supervision 2     Oct. 1984   2 (GE, TP)          2
Supervision 3     June 1985   1 (GE)              1           1  2  2  2
Supervision 4     Nov. 1985   2 (GE, E)           2
Supervision 5     May 1986    2 (GE, E)           2            1  2  3  3
Supervision 6     Oct. 1986   2 (GE, A)           3           4  2  3  3
Supervision 7     Jan. 1987   1 (A)               1           4  2  3  3
Supervision 8     June 1987   1 (A)               1           3  2  3  3
Supervision 9     Oct. 1987   1 (E)               1
Supervision 10    Nov. 1987   1 (A)               1
Supervision 11    Jan. 1988   2 (A, D)            1
Supervision 12    April 1988  2 (A, GE)           1           4  3  3  3
Supervision 13    July 1988   2 (A, GE)           3           3  3  3  3
Supervision 14    Oct. 1988   4 (A, GE, OA,TP)  4             2  3  2  2
Supervision 15   Dec. 1988   2 (A, GE)            2
Supervision 16    March 1989  1 (OA)              1           2  3  2  2
Supervision 17    June 1989   n.a.                n.a.        2  3  2  2
Supervision 18    Oct. 1989   1 (OA)              1           2  3  2  2
Completion        April 1991  3 (A,TE,TP)         4
Symbols:
p.pializations:  A=Architect; OA=Operations Analyst; D=Demographer;
E=Economist; GE=General Educator; TE=Technical Educator; TP=Textbook Production
Specialist.
Performance Evaluation: 1=problem-free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems;
3=major problems.
Type of Problems:  F=Financing;   M=Management;  D=Impact on Development;
G=General Performance.



