Document of
The World Barnk
FOR OFFICIAL USE O.NLY
Report No. P-3478-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US'$11.0 MILLION
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 8, 1983
RTLEC CY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usel by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli (GS)
Syli 1 = US$0.04
US$1 = Syli 23.00
System of Weights and Measures:  Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF               African Development Fund
DEF                Education and Training Division, Ministry of Planning
DGPE               General Education Planning Directorate
DPE                Education Projects Directorate
ENI                Primary Teacher Training College
IDEC               Educational Printing Office
IPN                National Pedagogical Institute
IPS                Vocational Training Institute
ISFORPET           Technical Instructor Training Institute
SF                 Saudi Development Fund
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



7'nym  11TYICIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUB3LIC OF GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Revolutionary People'Es Republic of Guinea
Amount:                  SDR 10.2 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The principal objectire of the proposed project would
be to continue Bank G:*oup support of Government's
*                                 education strategy through:  (a) increased training of
skilled workers by improvement and expansion of three
vocational training s3hools and strengthening of the
technical instructor training institute; (b)
improvement of the Government's capacity for education
and human resources planning by reorganization and
strengthening of the responsible units; and (c)
upgrading the quality of primary education by
strengthening and expansion of the national
pedagogical institute, the education printshop, and
two primary teacher training colleges.
Benefits and Risks:      The proposed project is expected to allow various
benefits to the Guinean economy. In the short term,
improved training of skilled workers would lead to
increased productivity in the industrial sectors.
Medium-term benefits would include: further
development of the n&Ltional education system,
definition of qualitEtive and quantitative education
targets, reallocation of resources available to the
education sector to assure their optimum use, and
revision of existing policies regarding employment
guarantees for vocati-onal training and university
graduates. Over the longer term, project objectives
of achieving improved learning conditions in primary
education would lead to further needed improvements in
secondary education. Possible risks to efficient
project implementation relate to Government's ability
to manage dispersed civil works, and to the country's
limited experience in preparation, printing and
distribution of primiary school textbooks. Appropriate
measures have been taken to counter these risks by
early training of local staff with remaining funds
from the First Education Project and under a PPF
advance. It should be noted, however, that
Government's performance in execution of the first
project was very satisfactory, and the expectation is
high for a similar record under the proposed second
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs (net of taxes and duties):
Local           Foreign         Total
----US$  Million               …
Vocational. Training                   2.0             10.0           12.0
Education and Human
Resources Planning                     -               0.8            0.8
Primary Education                      1.9              8.3           10.2
Projectl Management                    0.2              1.3            1.5
Base Cost                         4.1             20.4            24.5
Contingencies - physical              0.5               2.0            2.5
- prices               1.0               2.2            3.2
Total Project Costs                    5.6             24.6           30.2
'inancing Plan:
Local           Foreign         Total
IDA                                   0.6              10.411         11.0
AfDF                                   1.4             10.3           11.7
Saudi Fund                            0.2               3.9            4.1
Government                            3.4               -              3.4
Total                             5.6             24.6            30.2
Estimated Disbursements from TDA Credit:
FY84      FY85       FY86       FY87       FY88       FY89
--------------------US$ Million-----------------------
Annual                    1.0       2.5        4.5        1.6         1.1        0.3
Cumulative                1.0       3.5        8.0        9.6        10.7       11.0
Economic Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4071-GUI, dated March 7, 1983.
Map: IBRD 16462
I/   Including refinancing of PPF advances totalling US$700,000 equivalent, for
architectural design work (US$370,000), consultants' services (US$208,000), and
overseas training (US$122,000).



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDEN¶
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE RhEOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for SDR
10.2 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Education Project. Additional financing would be provided by
the African Development Fund (AfDF) in the amount of US$11.7 million
equivalent, and the Saudi Fund (SF) in the amount of US$4.1 million
equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Memorandum was discussed with the Government in June
1981 and distributed to the Board in August 1981. This section summmarizes
the contents of that Memorandum, and focuses on changes in Guinea's economic
situation and policies over recent years.
3.       Despite its mineral and agricultura'l potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1998 until about 1973-74. Economid
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, most of Guinea's 5.5 million
inhabitants live at the margin of poverty.  With a per capita income of about
US$ 300 in 1981, Guinea belongs among the least developed countries as
classified by the United Nations. Life expeetancy is only 44 years, infant
mortality is about 17 percent, 90 percent of population has no access to safe
water, and 80 percent of adult population is illiterate.
4.       Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-examining
its development policies, institutions, and relations with the outside world.
-It has recently announced significant policy reforms, some of which the
proposed project would support. Important first steps have been taken towards
improved economic management and decentralization of the economy: excessive
money supply was gradually reduced; more explicit performance criteria and
greater autonomy of public enterprises are being introduced, sectoral public
holding companies have been dismantled, and a reform of the banking sector has
been initiated; there is greater acceptance of technical assistance for
planning, investment programming, and project preparation; there is increased
recognition of the need for economic pricing of resources (e.g., interest
rates have been doubled and electricity tariffs increased); private trade has
been legalized, state retail trade has been discontinued, and most price
controls have been permitted to lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the
agricultural sector; private investment, small and medium-scale enterprises,
foreign direct investment, and the return of expatriate Guinean capital are
being encouraged, and some private enterprises have been allowed to import and
export most goods and to borrow and hold foreign exchange; enrollments in
higher education have been reduced and more students are being directed to
vocational training; manpower planning is being introduced, and the guarantee



-2L
of state employment to school graduates is being reapp-ai,sed, with a view to
curtailing the increase in public employment.  These ste-s reflect a
significant and broadly based at,tempt to address Gui-nea's dee-p--sed problems
a-&ld poor econonic --erformance. and reoresent furdae, canges from past
Recent 'Perforrmance
5.       Despite some progress made since 1974, Guinea's economic development
is hampered by stryLttural problems.  The economy is stagnating and the balance
of payments faces chronic deficits.  7oreign exchange supply cannot satisfy
domestic consumptiorn  service external debt, and finance capital and recurrent
costs of existing and new projectsr  Limited absorptive capacity hampers
investment and the inflow of foreign capital.  The overvaluation of domestic
currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and creates an unattractive
environment for producers and investors (both domestic and foreign), affecting
output and export oerformance,  The main productive sector   agriculture -
produces well below potential because of inadequate producer incentives.
inputs, extension services, infrastructure and marketing facilities.  Guinea's
current pace of economic development permits neither an increase in the
standard of liviing of the population nor the generation of domestic savings
for self-sustained growth and development.
6.       Increased domestic output especially for exports, a stricter control
of aggregate demand, as well as quantitative import restrictions, allowed
Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about US$66 million
per year on the average between 1979-81.  This resulted in a reduction in the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP from 6-7 percent of GDP in
previous years.  lowever, the capital account remains in difficulty because of
Guinea 's inability to attract higher capital inflows while facing important
amortization obligations. Overall balance of payments deficits have thus
represented 5,5 percent of GDP between 1979-81 (about US$90 million per year),
and they have been financed in equal proportion through an accumulation of
debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves. In mid-
1982 foreign reserves covered about two weeks of merchandise imports.
7.       Government's current revenues (about 33 percent of GDP, largely
dependent on mining exports), increased at a rate of 9.6 percent per annum in
1977-81, while at the same time current expenditures advanced at an annual
rate of 12.9 percent, mainly on account of expanding Government bills for
wages and salaries and of growing interest obligations. At the same time, the
state enterprise sector has absorbed heavy subsidies not only on current
account but also in the form of capital transfers and indirectly through the
intermediation of the state banking system. In total, the parastatal sector
received about GS 20 billion (US81 billion equivalent) of financial sumport,
or 13 percent of GDP annually over the 1977-81 period.  The overall deficit of
the Government reached US$3.6 billion equivalent (10 percent of GDP) in
1981.  Tn an attempt to curb the growth of current expenditure on wages and
salaries, the Government has enforced a decline in university enrollments from
20,700 students in 1978/79 to 12,100 students in 1981/82, and has terminated
automatic recruitment of new graduates into the public sector.
8.       Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive investment in
Guinea is of a public and narapublic nature. During the last development plan



- 3 -
(October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic investment reached
TJS$478 million (55 percent of planned expendLture) averaging 10 percent of
GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-
thirds of centrally-planned investment was f:Lnanced by foreign assistance.
The onging plan (1981-85) projects much higher investments of US$1.6 billion (in
1980 prices), favoring agriculture (31 percenit) and industry (14 percent). Many
of the proposed projects are, however, in preliminary stages of preparation,
and their financing is not yet sure. Tt appears unlikely that the proposed
investment targets could be reached. During the 1979-81 period, public and
parapublic investment represented about UJS$1(34 million per year in current
terms, remaining at about the same level as the previous plan exercise in
-terms of GNP.
9.       Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
'better, Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget for
maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of the
viability of state enterprises and has closed some. The least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim
at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, more responsive to market
mechanisms, and more receptive to technical assistance.
Prospects
10.      Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial based on
its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However, with 80
percent of the population in the rural sectcr, and with modest national
savings (about 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of
foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's
ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign
capital for investment in mining and ore-processing.
11.      It will not be easy during the 1980's to overcome Guinea's basic
foreign exchange constraint. Present mining capacity for export is unlikely
to expand significantly, and while new large-scale projects (bauxite, iron
ore) are on the drawing board, they are unlikely to reach fruition very
soon. Tn the meantime, the trend for agricultural exports to disappear has
been reversed only outside official transactions, and with existing price
distortions linked to the over-valued exchange rate, the mounting volume of
food imports -- together with the debt service burden -- has significantly
displaced possibilities of non-food consume^ goods imports. The lack of such
possibilities, together with producer price disincentives, has contributed to
discourage rural production above subsistence.
12.      Guinea's best prospects for economic development in the medium term
lie in efforts to induce growth, particular'ly in agriculture, by further
liberalizing the environment to provide incantives to production, increasing
the efficiency of the public sector, and imDroving resource management and
project preparation. Such policies could significantly alter the country's
development outlook anid offer new investment opportunities for external
assistance. The Bank is assisting the Government in this area through project
and sector work. A major Agricultural Sector Review organized by the Bank
with the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO)



- 4 -
took place in November/December 1982, and its output is hoped to be a
significant step in assisting Government to bring about policy reforms and to
expand possibilities for agricultural lending.  However, during most of the
1980s, Guinea would face a difficult transition period when increased foreign
assistance, especially on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the
balance of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradua7 realization of
the country's considerable development potential. Partioularly crucial vtli
be Government's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions,
improving the agricultural incentives structure, and ensuri ng rational
programming of public investments.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
13.      Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries,
expanded relations with Arab countries and with multilateral sources. Guinea
has qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilitieas, and it has successfully negotiated access to second and third
credit tranches.
14.      The accumulation of foreign debt to finance inves-tments in
infrastructure and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has resulted
in a burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for years, a
major problem.  Guinea's external outstanding public and private debt
guaranteed reached IJS$1.6 billion as of December 31, 1981, of which US$1.25
billion (81 percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on this debt
are projected at US$137 million per annum over 1982-86. Foreign exchange
shortages have hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears
totalled US$144 million at the end of 1981. The ratio of public and publicly
guaranteed debt service obligations to gross export earnings in 1981 was about
28 percent. Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about 17 percent
of export receipts.  Debt service on private non-guaranteed debt represented
about 10 percent of the 1981 export earnings.
15.      Although Guinea's debt service coverage has shown some improvement,
accumulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is
new debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of foreign
exchange. The Government has addressed the problem through debl rescheduling
negotiated bilaterally with some creditors, and measures to improve debt
management via the newly established External Debt Department in the Central
Bank, to which the Bank has provided technical advice as part of its economic
work. Government has also undertaken both a stricter control of investments
financed by external credits and a more judicious official import program.
The pressure on imports was somewhat relieved in recent years by official
toleration of some private exports at the free rate outside official foreign
exchange circuits.  However successful these operations may be, Guinea will
have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional
terms during the next few years. This will be needed not only for investment
purposes but also to provide foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer
good imports which are vital to stimulate economic activity and relieve supply
constraints, particularly in the rural sector. Furthermore, net public
savings after debt service will be inadequate until at least the late 1980s,
and local cost and recurrent expenditure financing by external sources will be
needed.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAT'IONS IN GUINEA
16.      The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the very successful bauxite mining project at Boke. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970's for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector.  Bank operations in
each of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral
planning, institution building and training. Thus, the Power Engineering
*        project and subsequent First Power project (iYs79,81) are rehabilitating the
Conakry power system and a Water Supply project (FY79) is providing similar
assistance. Although the Second Highway project (FY80) continues and extends
the successful first, its performance has only recently recovered following a
period of misuse of equipment and lack of fuel. The Government took firm
action to remove the problems and a Third Highways Project will be appraised
in FY83. Implementation of the most recently approved project, for Industrial
Rehabilitation and Promotion (FY82), initiated through PPF financing, has
started well. A recently approved first IFC operation, to the AREDOR diamond
mining company, has also made a good start. The FY79 First Education Project
(para 36) has been very satisfactorily implemented, and has provided a sound
basis for efficient preparation and execution of the proposed second project
presented in this report.
17.      It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Logistical
support for the rural sector, financial incentives, access to modern
technology and applied agricultural research,, have been almost nonexistent.
To deal with these fundamental problems, two projects are providing direct
intervention in sub-sectors with substantial growth potential. The Rice
Development Project (FY80) stresses national institution-building and
introduces pilot low-cost improved rice production methods in an area with
high potential. A study of agricultural prices and rural incentives has been
completed and Government has accepted the need for improved incentives. As
part of the intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government, a
maJor Agricultural Sector Mission (para 12) will provide a focus for new
directions for agricultural development and policy formulation.  The Livestock
Development Project (FY81), which aims at strengthening the national
institutions responsible for day-to-day field operations, sectoral planning
and analysis, improving animal health and productivity and training livestock
sector staff, has had substantial problems due to the continuation of enforced
Government cattle purchase. Intensive discussions are in progress to resolve
this problem.
18.      Bank Group operations in Guinea now include nine IDA Credits
totalling US$64.9 million and SDR 52.0 million, and two Bank loans totalling
IJS$73.5 million. Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the
undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries,
averaging 40 percent during the past five years, compared with 24 percent for
the Western Africa Region and 22 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole.
Guinea's rate also compares favorably with those of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development.



70 9;    Current Strategy0  The proposed Bank Group lending prograrm, supported
a-li ex-panded program of economic and sector work, is based on a strategy of
O ying rowth through support to the directly produc tive sectors, and by
c  raging Xkey upolicy reforms at the project and sectoral levels aimed at
irclilpioving existing economic mechanisms and promoting marke t forces.  Specific
t,argets are.  fa) giving priority to projects that increase production and
e-Ports5 (b) iim-proving absorptive capacity in those social and infrastructure
sestc-rs w'uicrh support the productive sectors, through rehabilitation, technical and
managerialt training; (c) introducing technical assistance directed towards
policy ref-orms, improved economic management and resource alloca ion; and (a)
-mproving capital flows through the promnotion of private investment and
i ncreasing the level of cofinancing.
92,       Apart from the proposed Second Education Project, IDA has recently
a o-aised projects for the rehabilitation of Conakry port and for technical
-assistance for economic management, and has preappraised a third project for
high a,y rehabilitation and maintenance.  A PPF advance is currently being used
-o -repare a technical assistance project for oil and mineral exploration
?r Tniotion. The Bank is planning to discuss with Government the price and
incentive structure for agriculture, and is seeking to increase the sectoral
knob-l edge necessary to develop, and conditional upon policy changes, expand
agri cultural operations.  It is equally important for the Bank to deepen its
,nderstanding of the industrial sector through additional sector work and
policy discussions, possibly leading to a second industrial rehabilitation
op eration.
in the mining sector, final feasibility studies for the proposed
Wir>ba iron ore project are under preparation.  The Bank is providing technical
acic-e to Government for this project, as well as for the analysis of the
cr'onour6 hydro/ aluminunr smelter project, in which it has been acting as
&**e iting agency for a UNDP-financed study of the aluminum smelter component.
21_1_1<   The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
g-La-anteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including
ibursed3.  its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11
uCe -eent by 1985 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on
puob   debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to
decli ne to 3.7 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Ba ckground
2,.       Guineais relatively young population, coupled with an adult literacy
rate of on'.y about 20%, makes the provision of adequate opportunities for
a  cation and training a development priority, although it represents a
sb-tan'ial fiscal burden for the Government.  In an attempt to closely link
-     tle outputs of the education system with the human resource requirements of
nat,ional economic development, Guinea has implemented one of the most far-
-neach4ng educational reforms in West Africa, using the six official local
-languages as the medium of instruction at the primary level, introducing
obligatory participation in productive agricultural work as part of the
curriculum, and organizing mass literacy campaigns.  However, this sweeping



- 7 -
reform has not yielded the expected results.  Be3ause of the weaknesses of
government departments responsible for education and manpower planning, the
flcw of students through the system was largely uncontrolled and unrelated to
mai-power needs of the economy.  Furthermore, the reform also has not met its
qualitative objectives. Insufficient emphasis on the teaching of French as a
second language causes students to be insufficiently prepared for the
transition to French as the language of instruction at the secondary level,
and their comprehension of mathematics and science is often inadequate. Time
spent by students on agricultural work was often at the expense of educational
activities. Physical implementation problems in the mass literacy campaign
made it difficult to sustain the interest of the population. The Government
recognizes the difficulties the reform has run into, and has started
implementation of a number of adjustments and changes.
Manpower
24,      The total labor force in Guinea is estimated at 2.3 million, or about
45% of the total population.  Total wage employment in the modern sector was
estimated in 1979 at 140,000 people, of whom about 30% are in the civil
service and 25% in rural enterprises.  The sudden departure of the colonial
administration following Independence in 1958 created critical manpower
shortages. The few trained Guineans who were suddenly placed in positions of
responsibility had to learn on the job, and havre performed quite well under
the circumstances. However, the centralized decision-making processes
introduced to replace market mechanisms placed a heavy demand on public
administration, which had few high and middle-:evel managers.  The lack of
adequately trained staff for the planning and administration of the economic
and financial system is reflected in inadequate data collection and
processing, inefficient investment planning, and insufficient project
preparation, implementation and supervision capabilities, and limits the
absorptive capacity of the economy.
25.     ~ The responsibility for manpower planniLng is shared by the Ministry of
Planning's education and training division (Division de l'Education et de la
Formation-DEF) and the Ministry of Labor's Directorate General of Labor
(Direction Generale du Travail - DGT). The weakness of manpower and
educational planning made it difficult to regulate enrolment and growth of
student output, and contributed to an excessive supply of poorly trained
secondary school and university graduates throughout the economy, particularly
in higher level agriculture, and veterinary science. By contrast, adequately
trained skilled workers, competent managers and administrators are in short
supply throughout the economy.
The Education System
26.      Following six years of primary education and three years of lower
secondary school, students may continue their studies in Vocational Training
Institutes (IPS's), or in a general course that prepares them for the
baccalaureat and entrance to institutions of higher education. The IPS's
offer vocational training of three years duration in a wide range of trades.
They theoretically recruit lower secondary school graduates, but in fact, most
students admitted so far have completed twelve years of general education.



27.      Organization.  Three Ministries are responsible for education and
training:   i)  tinistry of Pre-UJniversity Education and Literacy (MEPTJ) -
reponsible for primary and secondary general education, literacy programs and
primary teacher training; (ii) Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational
Training (METMFP) - responsible for secondary technical education; and (iii)
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS) - responsible for
higher education and secondary teacher training. An Education Commission
headed by the Minister of MESRS, formulates sector policies and monitors their
implementation.  Although both the MESRS and the MEPIJ have planning units,
sectoral planning remains relatively weak, with inadequate collection and
analysis of educational data. Educational research and curriculum development
are the responsibility of the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) which is
attached to MEPTJ. Its technical capacity for curriculum development, teaching
methocls and evaluation, for textbook and manuscript preparation, and for the
development and improvement of teacher upgrading is weak. Textbook printing
is undlertaken by the Education and Culture Printshop (IDEC) attached to MESPS,
but it; operates at inefficiently low levels due to the insufficient number of
textbook manuscripts provided by TPN as well as to the poor use and
maintenance of its equipment.
28.      Access to Education.  At Independence, educational opportunities were
among the lowest in Africa; the gross enrollment ratio was about 10% at the
primary level, and less than 1% at the secondary level. Considerable progress
has been made since. Guinea's 15% secondary school enrollment ratio is now
among the highest in the Region, and its 7% higher education enrollment ratio
exceeds all other West African countries. However, although the Government is
providing assistance for school building, the primary school enrollment ratio
(34%) remains among the lowest in West Africa due to the limited financial
resources of local government and the reluctance of parents in some regions to
enroll children. Girls represent about one-third of the enrolment in primary,
and one-fourth of enrolment in secondary schools.
29.      Quality of Education.  Numerous indicators show that the quality of
formal education in Guinea is low: classrooms are overcrowded; 60% of primary
teachers and 75% of secondary teachers are unqualified; primary teacher
training is inappropriate, and textbooks, equipment and laboratory facilities
are virtually nonexistent. Teaching methods are based on lecturing, note
taking and recitaticn. Comprehension and learning capacity in secondary
education are also limited by the difficult transition from primary education
in a national language to French, and students enter higher education with
substantial deficiencies. Similar problems affect the vocational training
institutes. The system is inefficient, with only 35% of primary entrants, 50%
of lower secondary entrants and about 25% of upper secondary entrants
completing each level without repetition.
30.      External Efficiency.  The output of the educational system is matched
poorly with the needs of the economy. The Government has overproduced low
quality graduates of middle- and higher-level education, but has failed to
train sufficient numbers of skilled workers. w'rom Independence to the late
1960's priority was given to secondary education. Then, under the pressure of
an increasing number of secondary school graduates demanding access to higher
education, and with the objective of promoting agriculture, the Government in
1973 shifted its priority to the rapid growth of university agricultural
education, but this led to eventual over-expansion. The principal emphasis



- 9 -
was engineer and technician training, while skilled worker training was almost
neglected. The mismatch between manpower requtirements and education has been
compounded by the Government's commitment to provide at least 12 years of
education for every child entering the educat:on system and who is able to
follow the course, and to subsequently guarantee employment to graduates of
vocational training institutes and universities.
31.      Economic policies in Guinea are affected by the emphasis on expansion
of enrollments in higher education and the relative neglect of primary
education and skilled worker training, combined with the prevailing employment
policy. To create employment for university graduates, for example, public
investments in agriculture have been oriented towards suboptimal projects in
large-scale mechanized agriculture, and the civil service and state
enterprises are overstaffed. As a result, even though official salary levels
are depressed, Government expenditures on wagas and salaries, and subsidies to
state-owned enterprises, are increasing.  To match the output of the education
system more closely to the requirements of tha economy, significant changes in
structure and management of the education system will be required, and have in
fact been started by Government (para 34). The duration and content of both
general education and specialized training must however be kept under
continuing review, and the flow of students tnrough the education system
controlled to reflect more closely the human resource requirements of the
economy.
32.      Education Costs and Financing.  Education at all levels is free, and
the Central Government finances nearly all education expenditures except
primary and lower secondary investments, which are financed by local and
district government authorities. The cost per student is about US$54 for
primary education and TTS$200 for secondary education. As percentages of GDP
per capita (18% and 70% respectively), these unit costs are comparable with
those of neighboring countries. Guinea's recurrent education expenditures
account for about 4% of GDP and 18% of the total recurrent budget, about
average for West African countries. About 6C% of the recurrent education
budget is spent on secondary and higher education, which is above the level of
most other countries in the region. Thus any further expansion of primary
education would have to be linked to a decrease in the relative budget
allocations for secondary and higher education.
Government's Strategy and Objectives
33.      After Independence, Government gave high priority to the education
sector which was expected to train graduates qualified in the sciences and in
various professions, and who would be capable of contributing to the country's
development. The Government aimed at establishing a system of mass education
to offer broad and continuing educational opportunities to children and adults
through expanding the formal educational system and developing a mass literacy
campaign to provide basic education for adults. Government is becoming
increasingly aware of the key issues facing the sector as described in paras.
28-32 above. To address these issues, Government has set the following
priorities for sectoral development: (i) improving the quality of education
through provision of teaching materials and improvements in teacher training,
starting with primary education; (ii) expansion and quality improvement of
training programs for skilled workers for industry and agriculture in
Vocational Training Institutes (IPS's) to offer lower secondary school



- 10 -
graduates an alternative to higher education; (iii) strengthening human
resources planning to match output of the education system more closely to
manpower requirements of the economy; (iv) limiting access to higher education
by restricting upper secondary education and reducing the pass rate at the
bacca-laureate exam.
34.      As broad policy objectives, these priorities are well defined and
sound, and while implementation of related actions will take several years,
Goverrnment has already taken the following initial steps:  (i) provision of
teaching materials and reorganization of teacher training to improve the
quality of instruction especially at the primary level; (ii) as regards the
vocational training institutes, bringing back the entrance level to secondary
school diploma, adjusting the duration of training to the requirements of each
trade, and revising the curricula; (iii) strengthening the units responsible
for manpower and education planning; (iv) reducing the number of baccalaureate
candidates by 45% between 1977 and 1979; (v) reducing the number of students
enrolled in higher education by, among other things, stopping the intake in 8
out of 33 agricultural faculties. Furthermore, Government realizes that the
practice of guaranteeing employment to all graduates of vocational training
institutes and universities is rapidly becoming unsustainable because of the
budgetary implications, and has recently stated that it does not intend to
continue indefinitely to provide public sector employment to these school
graduates. As part of its new economic orientations, Government has closed
some state enterprises and laid off employees.
35.      The measures described above are important and much needed steps in
the right direction, and their implementation should continue. However, much
more is required to address the many imbalances in the system. It is
therefore important that Government give high priority to preparation of a
comprehensive plan for implementation of its education sector policies, and
that this plan be expressed as a coherent set of quantitative and qualitative
targets with a schedule for specific actions. Such a plan should take account
of the financial constraints, manpower priorities, and the need for quality
improvements at all levels. With the assistance provided under the First
Education Project (para 36) for undertaking a manpower study and strengthening
planning in the Ministry of ligher Education and Scientific Research,
Government has been able to do some of the groundwork in this respect.
Follow-up measures would include preparation of a program for implementing the
policy recommendations of this study and those of the sector review report
issued in July 1980, which would be reviewed by TDA by June 30, 1984 (Section
3.03 of draft DCA). As the next step, Government would establish a General
Educational Planning Directorate (DGPE) and an Education Project Directorate
(DPE) to serve all three education ministries (paras 42 and 47).
The Rank Groun's Role in the Sector
36.      Previous Investments.  The Rank Group's earlier lending objectives
reflected the limited knowledge of the education sector in Guinea, and lending
was restricted to simple investments that satisfied clearly identified and
high priority manpower needs. This strategy had a dual focus: lending for
project-related training, and for the development of important and well
defined sub-sectors of the education system. The Bank Group has also
introduced training components into highways, water supply, power and
agriculture projects. Within the education sector, an IDA Credit of US$8



- 11 -
million for the First Education Project (Credit 149-GUI) helped the Government
improve and expand training programs for industrial technicians and skilled
workers. Detailed project preparation and efficient project management have
resulted in a good implementation performance. The schedule established for
project works was satisfactorily met, and the project institutions were
operational by end-1980. Higher than expected inflation led to local cost
overruns of about 104, which were met by Government. The project has met most
of its institutional development objectives, although the manpower study was
delayed until early 1982. The project is now expected to be completed by June
30, 1983.
37.      Sectoral Lending Objectives.  Since 1980, the Bank Group has, in
collaboration with UJnesco, supported GovernmEnt in a comprehensive review of
its sectoral policies. The resulting policy dialogue with Government has been
productive, and together with the increased sector knowledge, have created
opportunities to broaden the Bank Group's lending objectives for the education
sector. While support for the development of technical vocation training for
the immediately productive sectors remains an important objective of Bank
Group lending, the proposed project would also help Government make more
efficient use of resources in the education sector and further improve
education planning, and improve the quality of technical vocational training
and primary education; as such, the project represents a crucial element in
implementation of Government's sectoral prio-rities.
38.      In order that this broader lending strategy can have a continuing
impact, the Bank will continue its intensive dialogue with Government
focussing on key policy- issues, principally: (i) revision of the system of
guaranteed employment for vocational training and university graduates; (ii)
revision of the Government commitment to provide 12 years of general education
to students entering the education system, and instead, to set a high priority
on improvement in the quality of primary education; and (iii) the need to
regulate the flow of students through the education system broadly in line
with manpower requirements of the economy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.      In September 1979, the Guinean Government confirmed earlier requests
to IDA for continued assistance to the education sector.  Based on knowledge
gained from the First Education Project, and on a preparation report prepared
in March 1981 with assistance of the UJnesco/World Bank Cooperative Program, a
Bank mission appraised the proposed project in January/February 1982. A PPF
advance of US$700,000 equivalent was approved in June 1982 to finance
architectural design work, preparation of bidding documents, and assistance to
the National Pedagogical Tnstitute to remedy weaknesses identified during
appraisal. Architectural design work and equipment lists will be completed,
and tendering will take place, by mid-1983. Experts to be financed under the
PPF will be in post by March/April 1983, anc! Government has identified sources
for all remaining technical assistance. Negotiations with the Government, led
by Mr. Boubacar Diallo, Director in the Central Bank, were held in Washington
on February 25, 28 and March 1, 1983. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4071-
GUT, dated March 7, 1983, is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Description
40.      The principal objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to impro-e
technical vocational training; (ii) to develop Government's manpower and
education planning capacity; and (iii) to improve the quality of primary
education.
Al.      Vocational Training.  The Vocational Training Institutes (IFS's)
would be refurbished, equipped and provided with complementary buildings to
create adequate teaching conditions.  Pedagogically, the project would improve
the quality and pattern of training to better cover the skills projected to be
in high demand.  IPS's annual output would remain unchanged at about 280                     )
skilled workers among seven basic trades. Teachers for the IPS's would be
trained or upgraded by the Technical Instructor Training Institute (TSFORPET),
established under the First Education Project. The assistance to ISFORPET
through expatriate specialist services (17 man-years over 3 years), limited
supplementary equipment, consumable materials to improve practical skills
training, and fellowships (105 man-months) to train Guinean teacher trainers
and maintenance instructors would:  (i) strengthen the technical teacher
training program; and (ii) provide support for improvement of existing
Vocational Training Institutes nationwide, including adaptation of curricula
to fit employers' needs. Outlines of these revised curricula, as well as
draft conditions of admission and duration of training, for different trades,
have already been prepared by Government and submitted to IDA for review.
Government has agreed that before December 31, 1983, it would issue a decree
establishing conditions of admission and duration of training for the IPS
programs, and by October 1, 1985 it would introduce new curricula acceptable
to IDA for relevant specializations at the IPS's (Section 3.04 of draft
DCA). At Government's request, the facility built on the ISFORPET site under
the First Education Project for the storage of equipment and materials for
ISFORPET, would be developed into a Central Supply Unit for the purchase,
storage and distribution of equipment, tools, spare parts and consumable
materials for the national vocational institute system. To this effect, the
project would finance furniture, equipment, specialist services and
fellowships. In order to make the facility operationally effective the
Government would establish the Central Supply Unit by January 1, 1984, and
thereafter provide it with adequate operating funds (Section 3.05 of draft
DCA).
42.      Education and Human Resources Planning.  To restructure the
educational system, a General Education Planning Directorate (DGPE) within the
Ministry of Higher Education, would be established as a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of draft DCA) This unit is designed to
provide, within an overall strategy, technical services to the three
ministries concerned.  The Ministry of Planning's Education and Training
Division (DEF) in close collaboration with DGPE and the Ministry of Labor's
Directorate of Labor (DGT) would study and formulate recommendations based on
the ongoing manpower study for: matching output of the education system more
closely with manpower requirements of the economy; the implications for
aducation and policy developments; and revision of the employment guarantee
policy for graduates of vocational training schools and universities. DEF
would be reorganized by December 31, 1983, and would also appraise and follow-
up on the manpower components of all investment projects and improve the
collection of manpower data (Section 3.06 of draft DCA). DGFE and DEF, in



- 13 -
close collaboration with the Ministry of Labor, would undertake detailed
preparation for development of the education system, including: regulation of
student flows; and achievement of a better match between manpower needs and
education outputs. After consultation with 'IDA on the terms of reference,
Government would carry out and submit to IDA for review: (a) by June 30,
1985, a study on future development of the vocational training system, and (b)
by June 30, 1986, a tracer study of IPS and agrozootechnic students (Section
3.07 of draft DCA).
43.      Primary Education.  The National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) would be
responsible for developing primary education programs and preparing
manuscripts for primary level textbooks in national languages and in French.
The Government has already signed a two-year renewable technical assistance
agreement with the French Government for preparation of syllabi and textbook
manuscripts for French language programs in primary and lower secondary
schools. To further strengthen TPN the project would finance specialist
services and fellowships in addition to the physical improvements. The
Government would: employ specialists to assist the preparation of syllabi and
textbook manuscripts not later than January 1, 1984, and would provide IPN
with adequate funds to cover the fees for manuscript preparation by local
authors (Section 3.08 of draft DCA). The Educational Printing Office (IDEC)
would be strengthened to produce sufficient textbooks through improving
physical plant, providing specialist services and fellowships, and financing
of incremental operating costs. To enable IDEC to operate effectively, the
Government would grant it management autonomy by January 1, 1984 and would
provide adequate funds to make IDEC fully operational (Section 3.09 of draft
DCA). Textbooks produced by IDEC would be lent to students, with lending fees
primarily used for financing the costs of transporting the textbooks. The
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (ENI's) irn Labe and Kankan would have their
capacity increased and be provided with adec[uate facilities and equipment to
increase the standard of primary school teacher training. Government would
undertake a study to plan development of the teacher training system, and
submit it to IDA for review by June 30, 198'; (Section 3.11 of draft DCA). To
make it possible to recruit students at the end of the lower secondary level,
instead of at the baccalaureate level as is presently the case, Government
would revise the existing decree on the teacher training colleges, by December
31, 1984. Government would formally adopt :-evised teaching programs, outlines
of which have been agreed with IDA, and implement them by October 1, 1985
(Section 3.10 of the draft DCA).
Project Costs and Financing
44.      Total project costs, net of identifiable duties and taxes, are
estimated at US$30.2 million equivalent, of which US$24.4 million equivalent
(81%) in foreign exchange.  Cost estimates are based on March 1983 prices.
Physical contingencies equivalent to about 1i01% of total project base cost have
been applied as followrs: 15% of the estimated base cost for civil works
(mostly rehabilitation) and architectural and engineering fees; and 10% for
furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about
13% of the base cost. Price contingencies have been applied as follows: for
local costs, 11% per year over the project execution period; for foreign
costs: 8% in 1983; 7.5% in 1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% in 1986-88.  Costs for
consulting and specialist services (about 43 man-years) are estimated at
US$120,000 per man-year including salary, allowances and overhead for



- 14 -
expatriate specialists.  Costs for fellowships (about 46 man-years) are
estimated at UJSt23,000 per man-year;  fellowship holders would serve at least
four years in the position for which they were trained.
45 ~   Financing for the proposed project would be provided by:  the
proposed IDA Credit o f SDR '0,2 million (US$11.0 millior, equivalent); the
A,frican Development Fund (AfDF) with a credit of about UISl11.7 million; and
the Saudi Fund 1/ with a grant of about US$4.1 million. Government would
firance local costs estimated at 'JSS3.4 million equivalent.
Recurrent Cost Implications.  To ensure adecuate coverage of project
operating costs, Government has agreed to make adequate budgetary provision
for operation and maintenance of all project-assisted institutions.  In
addition, Government has agreed to establish appropriate procedures for
maintenance of existing education facilities nationwide, and to provide
adequate funding for this purpose in its recurrent budget (Sections 3.01 and
-03 of draft DCA).
Project Implementation
r'7 .    The Project IJnit established to implement the First Education
Po,ject, and which has performed satisfactorily, would be reorganized and
upgraded to the status of an Education Projects Directorate (DPE) responsible
for coordinating implementation of the second project, as well as all other
externally financed education projects. The directorate would be headed by a
full-time director, and would be strengthened by an architect, a general
educator, a procurement specialist, and an accountant. In addition, each
education ministry would designate a senior official to serve as sub-project
director for implementation of the component under its control.  Responsibility for
accounting and for procurement of civil works and equipment would be centralized in
DPE whicha would also: coordinate project implementation at the national level;
serve as liaison between the sub-project directors and the external financing
agencies,  rmonitor project implementation; and be responsible for financial
managemeint and maintenance of project accounts.  The formal establishment of
DPE, with responsibilities, organization and staffing (including nomination of DPE
director and sub-project directors) acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (d) of draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursements
4i8.     IDA-financed major civil works (US$2.5 million) would be procured on
tne basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group
guidelines. Small contracts for civil works (US$0.6 million) may be awarded
through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.  Equipment,
materials and furniture (TJS$1 .9 million) would be grouped into appropriate
bidding packages and also procured through ICB.  Miscellaneous items in
packages of less than TUS$100,000 would be procured under local competitive
procedures acceptable to IDA; contracts below US$30,000 may be procured by
ieviting quotations from at least three suppliers.  The total value of items
In addition the SF is planning to finance in parallel tne IPS Faranah
for about US$2.93 million equivalent.



- 15 -
procured by both these methods would not exceed $500,000. Thresholds for
prior IDA review of US$500,000 for civil works contracts and US$100,000 for
goods contracts would cover about 97% and 80% respectively of contract
values. Remaining contracts would be subject to random post-review by IDA
after contract award.
49.      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be made on the
following basis:
(i) 80% of total expenditures for civil works - US$1.96 million;
(ii)  100% of total expenditures for architectural and engineering fees -
US$1.3 million;
(iii)  100% of total expenditures for furniture and equipment - US$1.49
million;
(iv) 100% of total expenditures for specialist services and fellowships -
US$4.18 million; and
(v)  50% of total expenditures for incremental operating costs - US$0.26
million.
(vi) 100% of the withdrawn PPF Funds-US$700,000.
(vii)  initial disbursement for the Special Akccount-US$60,000.
US$1.0 million would remain unallocated.  All disbursements would be fully
documented except for incremental operating costs of the institutions included
in the project (estimated at UJS$0.3 million) which would be disbursed against
certified statements of expenditure. Establishlment of (i) a Special Account
of US$60,000 to be financed by the IDA credit for purchasing of small
equipment items, vehicle spare parts, and operating costs eligible for
reimbursement; and (ii) a Revolving Account of Sylis 3.5 million as the first
installment of Government's contribution to local costs, would be conditions
of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) and lb) of draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Risks
50.      The immediate benefit of the project wiould be the impact of the
vocational training component on economic development through training of
appropriately specialized and qualified skilled workers in priority sectors.
In the medium term, strengthening of educational and human resources planning
is expected to provide the administrative and t;echnical conditions for further
development of the educational system, definitxon of realistic quantitative
and qualitative education targets, reallocation and better use of resources in
the education sector, regulation of student flows, and revision of the
existing employment guarantee policy for vocati.onal training and university
graduates. Tn the longer term, the improvemenl; of learning conditions in
primary education, as well as strengthening of the technical capacity of TPN,
would constitute the basis for further improvement of secondary education.



- 16 -
51.      Project implementation faces two major risks.  First, that Government
may not be able to effectively manage construction of the somewhat dispersed civil
works; this risk is increased because most of the construc-
tion represents the first civil works in the education sector financed by the
Bank Group to be implemented outside Conakry. This issue is addressed by
financing, with the remaining funds of Cr. 849-GUI (First Education Project)
fellowships to train Guinean construction supervisors, and by providing under
the proposed project, specialist services to strengthen the civil works
management and supervision capacity of the Education Projects Directorate.
Second, there is a risk that the country's limited experience in textbook
preparation could lead to delays in preparing, printing and distributing the
primary school textbooks. However, as in the case of the construction
supervisors abovementioned, PPF advances are financing the early training of
Guinean specialists, and back-up specialized technical assistance will be made
available under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
53.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
54.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 8, 1983.



-   17   -
Page L
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - S5CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
AREA (THOUSAND Sq. EM.)                                                         - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           246.0
AGRICULTURAL     45.7                               HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTD4ATE lb  AFRICA SXTN or SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH Of SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                110.0       150.t    290.0                250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      63.7        90.7     82.9                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TROUSAND5) 3061.0      4069.0   5425.0/c
URBAS POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.9        13.9      19.1                17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      28.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      12.5        16.5      21.4                27.7                    54.7
PEY SQ. M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    69.7        89.0    115.4                 66.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.0        42.5      43.9                44.8                    46.0
15-64 YES.                        55.1       54.7      53.2                 52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.8         2.8       2.9                 2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.8       2.91c               2.7                     2.8
URBAN                             3.1         6.2       6.1                 6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.9        46.8      45.9                47.3                    47.Z
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    30.3        24.2     20.0                 19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.0         3.0       3.0                 3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0       101.0     83.0                 88.7                    90.7
PEF. CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  91.8        86.4      78.3/d              90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         45.8        42.2      39.67!              53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       8.1         6.6       7.0Or              18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        49.6        43.3      37.1                26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)   34.7        39.7     44.5                 45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIHUSAND)                         207.8       186.5    165.3                129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       10.0/e              23.9
URBAN                              .,          ..     44.07?               54.9
RURAL                              ..         ..        2.57?             1I.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                              ..        13.0        ..                25.8
URBAN                              ,,        70.0       ,,                 63.1
RURAL                              ..         2.0       ..                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        26903.5    32519.4  16626.7/d             32097.0                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3255.4      2031.5   A'494.0Td            3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER DSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1121.8       611.7/f  634.01/             1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                           205.3       216.97?   385.5MI             249.5                  430.8
RURAL                          2201.8       879.87!  728.97j             1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        16.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
AVERAGE NINBER OF PERWNS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF LWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        5.0
URBAN                              .                                         .
RURAL                              ..         ..



- 18 -
Poge 2
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
QJINEA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV-E aGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-!
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIWARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         33.0       34.0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE         ~        44.0         45.0       45.0                   72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                16.0         21.0       24.0                   50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         13.0       15.0                  10.2                     15.3
MALE                   3.0         21.0       22.0                   13.2                    19.4
FEALE                  0.4          5.0        8.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAI ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)  21.7            3.2        3.1                    7.9                     4.7
PUP IL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             65.6         36.1       38.2                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           26.0         22.8       24.1                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY BATE (PERCENT)          7.0          9.0/h    20.0                    34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.8          2.4         .                    3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          12.7         22.4       22.9                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                          .                               1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.2          1.2        3.8                    2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                              .                    1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1521.6       1939.6    2416.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.4         40.3       39.7                  34.1                     36.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               88.0         85.0       82.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.0          8.0       11.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 49.6         47.7       44.6                   41.4                    37.0
MALE                                  59.4         57.4       34.2                   53.9                    46.9
FIMALE                                39.9         38.1       35.2                   29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.0        1.0                    1.2                      1.3
INCOnE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF BOUSEHOLDS                    .          .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..                ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AESOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
IEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                              ..                            134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ,            ..         .                   82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .           ..       70.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ,.           .           .                  60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTCY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  .           .          .                   39.3
RURAL                                         .               ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each Indicator are population-veighted arlthletic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on svailability of data and ls not uniform.
/b   Uniless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Recent Governezt estimates from Administration Census indlcate a resident population (excluding non-
Gulneanas) of 4.53 mill, in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.7T p.a.; /d 1977; /e WHO report May,
1980 quotes total access ll-lZT.  However, this does not match reported service in urban and rural
areas; /f Government hospitals only; Ig 1976; /h 1965.
* Present Bank estimates indicate higher ratio of supply close to requirement.
Revised
March 1,_1983



Mee:Althoug  th  dare are drs-  free none  greerily ja,dged the meet asbtirttie- end rtishie, it sind alma he noted riot they say so r tse--
ntoalcoparble heb -     of th. tort of stadadised definition- and ..oerpts sed by differre  taneiesI ftrilertiog the data.  TVe data err,n-
silss   ofol to describe orders ofsntd,indicate trends, end thrcte                    cran         -ao  differences betwee  -o-iris
The refernc   grops are (I) the see . nnonrty groop of the tobject co..try and (2) a  -totty g-np etch somwht higher a-rrgo Intern thor the  -o-try groop
ef the ebjeti.. tatry feocpt f-r   "High Incm    oii~,aret  groop where "iiddie Iocom  forh Africa and Kiddie fact" it chosr  inc...n  ofsrne
acia-n. tltoro  afiiin . O  ihe  ofe-tec   groop data rho avrie                .r popaLoti-c ocidhed ertimetin  meont far each indicator and show  nly when
sajorfey of che  oore  fo a groop ion data for riot indcaor lnc  rheco-rge of  -tenr ire aeg the indic-t-r  dopr-ds an rhe a                               blalltry at dora
see initio  ot         ..im .ain  th. coryed reference  -rao.g.ft- Th. -.. -    .y...1I -pi                                                                  hl l.
AREA (ihos....d sq.km.)                                                                           Popaletian per    IT H    Bil td - total, once, and  -ora  - Popalation(otl
mini1 - TotaIs-f.. oe   opeining land aeond inland eaer; 1929 data.                               orb-n. ad m~It) divded by their rt-p-tice  _ashe  of inspial bean
hgioeIcat-l - E.timatr of   riotaa  oe  ased temporarily n- permnetly                            avaIlable in psh'ii  ond peitst  grner1 and specialIed hospital andre
foe repa. p-aitres   -actt and kitties garden on to tin folIos; t9P9 date.                     hahilicatintcntr.    Hospitain are cntblitbh-ts pnriaeetty.s_ffvd
by st leas.t on  physiri-ac.-ttsltnh-en     pr-eidtrg principally  -at-
GNP PER CAPITA (15$) - CNP Per cpita esiee               --toret netkt prices. eat-                 dial torn ar-nt incoded.  RmIn  hcapirets, hoee-- trtd  health
rsiated by nam   natritmthod as ened Bank Atlas I1978-d0 hosts); 1963.                           at -mdica  retersea  permn-tly staffed by a physician  (hot by
lP, med I9fdt,mato   sitant   se,nideffe, etc.) ninth offer InIata  ac
d.elon med pr-rdo a Ilnied range of medir-Iaiirn.Pe  te
ENERGY CONlSUMPT ION PEll CAPITA - A--l connpein- of tontia  eegy  c-al                             cte) porpea...orban h             Ipol  incsO   WHlls pelnropol/grotto  h-npif ala
and tignite, petrolea, n-a-l Has nod hyden-. raIes  an  geotherml ete-                            on, roral honpitala. lana  _e ora  hospitals nod endi-at sd   atensity
crIrity) in kitlorm   of teal eq-1-et prr ca.pita; 196i, 1923,..ad 1979                          craters.  Spnciatiied heapitsla se  inoaded nety od- taitl.
data.                                                                                          Adai,esons  e-  aspittsl sad - totl-     nero _b   adnonn- s e-   o  discharges
free hospitals dicided by tin -cte of beds.
POPULATION Hil VITAL STATISTICS
fotel FPapsiatto. Kid-Year (th-oad.l - A: ef Jaly 1; 1960, 1970, ao  I9OHI                    O Iifi
data.'                                                                                       ireaSe lice of Honsobeldfntonerhohad                                     - oa,ara,ad  -nca-
frbos Perlte1      (ooe  cisel      a            f -rbat to rocal popolarlo;                     A he...ehol  c-eils5s  f a grcp  oiclcdat   ho aharn Iltvg 70-t...
differe  deintinscfanbs-           neany off-c comparability of dart                            ad     iti    nit meals   A hv-dr- orldger may at nay  ct he ir-adef It
-meg  tcoeeie; 19i3. 1921,..ed 198f dora.                                                     eehabodfoattriapopna
Popolcion   ojecIon                                                                       A-eaann,,o,,rat  per roatctal, oro-                     0    oa  -vrag-ns
Popsitino  n ye 200i0 - Corent pepoictite projections are hosed  -v1993                   he   fpron   e   o     Inalt oran  ted tota   "IcopI'd cc nIo
tmint  .peplotian by na aed  -e  nod chant mareliny and f-etiltiy toe-d,itigs.  _epetticolIy.  Dvrltin ga  -oladt  t-prann    ttctsod
P-n)-ttan panme-e  far meritiy  --te   -tpis- of thre- evl  asses-                           o otnpied port..
ing lii r ePeotany at birth Inceain,g with  cotty'  pee capita income                      Ac--e. it EItetrity (per-vif declhirgnl - tonal, orha. oed .tain  -
teedl, and femate lifeesenar  athlt Ei   at27.5eas.Tic pooa-                                 C,.nvrtion.t dwellings with eI-leticity it lfriet qoar-e  at perretage
meters fat f-rtility ratelsohv  three levels assoig de-linr In                                   tartl, oche, and rota  doeiliogsespe-Irlp.
fr_cfiiy orodivg to L.c-me herd  ad  past family Plann.ing perf--ano
lahcacyis then assIgned nor of tha...dace-bi-ti-ns of  -attlity                        EDUiCA LIM
and Inttility treds fn- Projectionprp-         s                                           Adtrd to-Iimeot tatita
ltat innar rt3,PoPioii_-_I_o    stationary pepA  aios thcre Is so grooh since                  -rmr   coi-tnl   eead fealo- Cro.. coral, nato on  irmal
the birth rate is rf nto_tic dnnh race, and aIno thtagescto-tanere-                            enolmet_ falIaemo  the prinry ltot-a  ptcn t f rspe-tire
main   onsiae.  Tis isohievd only after fEnlistY rtes de-lio  to                          primary scio-ag  yppIlotioo  norall .         ocadnhildrer acd h-i
tic tep1ora-t Ie-I of sun tor   e-p-dantl- rtet, ft-leeeah ganor-nio                           years hb  adjostd  nt.  diftf-n  ivtba o  primaryedntn;for
of see  replace  itaetcoiy.             c  tatianory pnpo1sriao nicewa                         catries with oirresa  edarro   eco1imet toy eanrd ill pe--et
estimee  etibaioftep)osd  checatertl tics of the papotanc-                                     siore som  popils ar  beLow orbort tic  ffliciol snhnot ago.
in the yea  PH00, an Otis rtst of d-rtiv  of fertility -naten  trytoc-                        -rnayahool -_tota, oIe and fealo - tonpotd osabost;seo--odoly
man  leel                                                                                      rdsntion reqoires on leat foo  yearn of approved p i-ay   -to-tatin.;
'f-a  arai-nry popahalon is reahed - Ihl year~h ab t-sit -nay poalcPrordrs fratral, roa                                     -na,o  teacher crcr    taiarit  fcr popilt
si-s will be -ca bed.                                                                          ooenlly ef 12 t  12 yeare of efe; crrooec...os  r   g                   -crlty
Per ss. be. -Mid-yea  popatatiat per sqoora kitmtr  (ill hectarra) of                        locaionl.rti    ilnee  frectt       2srtoy         .- cntro  io-tttco-
tnlan;1961. 197  aod 1979 dtra.                                                       inldoO    ebia,idsrn.o   terpotn    hc   prt   oeed
Pe as.to. -nit-raal tori - lospotod an ohor  f-o  ari         Iorl  ad                     ertlyora  drp-timeot  of --codcoylo-l-tic-s
asy   96,iP  and i9P9 data                                                         Pcpil-rnohr tnio -  rior, and  - _nondnc-   bd atrn   onldt
PoaainAge icotore (Per`eat) -Childreo  (f-id yearn), wtkiog-afe  (15-                      prImary and sac..ndaty lo'aol  di ldod by  -b-tt  of c--h-r  in the
hi pears), and reIted (A5 feat  and  -tcr  ao percetages of sd-yorop-                          corepodoglre-
latian; 19h0, 19270, and 1990 data.hotlitatre (ceecrt) -icorar  odoits (able to red sod unite)
fosltin ito ic here, fpeettr   - nta~l  A-dol freh  --te  of  ot-1 had-                    000ceetn    f cot.1 adolt ppoltitt- aged 15 y-ara an  ove.
yer  opltit  or15141  1960-lI, and90-S.
Perpiatl- ICetht hre (pecen) - oi.on   - d a  growth rat   ci arbor popt-                    cmmt ev5T13
latinsfo   950-60. 1961-71. aod 1970-H0.                                                     Ps--snoe  iota  (Pot tho...od.....to.  tnnor  ras-optiocmeo
trade sirc  fac  fort thoasod) -. daa. hoe birtha per thossord of  id-y-o                         cassnio  rsta   ight ynrsoo-;  -coclod     -bhalo--, hratnrs aed
popattin  1961  19711. and 1960 dat.                                                           si1it-ay veh.rhes
trade  .raib Hate    _ fret  ..cana  - A.-.o' d-hti  per tho....    of nid-prar                Ssdlo HR-icltr  (pe  thoosd   -orlotnoo  - ill typos otecIres for radio
popelaltiso; 1960.' 1911  aad I990 datab,:.I                                                                 .. hrarss I ra  ~pabhic pot thc-scd of popointico  crlods  n
titlity rates; ..s.alty five-year ac-cgo  -diog In 1960, 1970, and 19H0.                       nestrstrc   ablihe    -ioii.
Psutly Ponnins    Acceetrs  Mea tb . fbanads) - A...a  rhrof eccptar                   '   eties(rrt-sn  popoatien) - TV te-iver- for brt.dt...t te
ofP hlrb"nn'    o  deiR       one   afrso   aloa   siypnnv  ptEogre.                            H _no  pabit  e  thooaipplcn;ocan   niesdT   eevt
faiypinie- t  (preto   marie  seen  - Percetage af  inrd                                         totrios and to yot- when erglttte   of TV aria eon in nfl-t.
mtlama   fcidharn               g   1-iye'nt) who ass birni-cetav-   dotirna to               lenae   irltine  pe  tioadpplt ) - Shoas the aeo tir-
all marindwoe  inam  age genap.                                                                coaino   dily genea    `ttnvsscr"  defined asnpnriedico
pIbir-tion  devo.ted prmmatity to er.ordingtes atnw.   ni   asie
FOOD Atll sigTRTION                                                                                 to h  "doily" if it appears as least fo   ie      ek
fode of Road PF-datianre   apt  fi6-1              )-Lden of Per capita   -Ior                 -i- dental Attendoote per aitta pro Yea-gaseB  on. I          the  ohro
prdaeHnofal  fo  rmedtia.Ptdcfto  ec               -dn  ed and fend atd                   cichnes cold dotini cia year,  -Isthdlag od..iosoo  t  drr-He   sma
ha on calnda  yea  boah.  iCadiciratt-- primay ao-d  ( .9. g-...e                              and  ebil.taitn.~
iat-ad of naga-l shirh er  edible and cn-cainnnrnnc             .g. coffee and
coo arc aciaded ).  Aggpegt  p-oda-tinn of  -ah   ..ncry Is bored 00JBIOH FORCE
_nnani ..  enra_ge pendoce tPriewihs   91h.1977  and 190  dna                                I 1o Laho  Pote(coooeo  - ....eoitly  -tirepron,lcldo
Per capita sapplo of             Z _lre   pene   ioetenes      a,ttn      nad f-                        facsadanolydht  -octdiog hocari-n.sares    t.
vsryoirnnn  ofst fond soppli-s availble incoec-try pee to.pita                                 toeitpptco   fal   ls    tilin    s  ain    onre   r
per day.  Artlablo soplina coaptte -domes.i pcd-cti-o  isportt  Iles                                  1960saabo  ta, 19ff nod 1910 dora
reports, and obanges i  stat. lt5pI0  ecld  anm l fed,  -rda,                           female (percet) - female Ibit  forc  -aperc-oag  of torah labor forc.
qoecicie  ose  isfod   prcsing, end lossI            odis-tibtior    eae-                      Agecatonp-cei             L- aho  foc   s   osng   ontr,hnco   n
mento wor  eatimatd by fAt boacd 00 physiological.. neds for  -ora  anti-                        fiabisg aa  -- perenag o.f  tota  labo  fort; 190ff  1970 and 19H0 data.
cit yandhealth toald-ilog  _ott_s relteao1 roe,body colies-, age                                noty  pro           - inh- force      ~ it oolg,coarrl,sofatdg
andse  dietrlhino of popotatiec. and oltawlg 1I pretes  far cast  at                             an-   letict,  aerad g.. ..  ...cr tlof total labor- te
h-onebld level; 1961-65, 1970 nod 1977 dan.-                                                     196,  97  and19   data.
PortePita -orl  vi protein facam  par d-p) - Protein  --eet oipe P ce.Pi,.                     Pric to  hate (plec-e) - ctat., am., oadf iae-  otrpolso
neIsply of food pee day .  Rer sId  of food Is dfiid as sv.  Re-                             a-tieltyratosrtoee,  p-c   an  -oca, ala, nod femle-I  labor fn-e
qaemonfor. all cnacien  stoblished hy UDA petvide f-o   ilt                               o-ttetges of torah, mate aed Ornate popalacion  f allg -io             -sci-eiY;
ohlonanro  of hI gram  of cora  pe-ed  per day and Z  gStma of soial nod                       1960, 1970, sod log9 dta   Th.e ate boe  or hIdO's    riipcoseton
pos   reeo  of which 13  rm  ahci   ha  ohml prorei-   Then- stad-                           rnlttgg-etrcoea  tie p-oalo,ad long time tred.A
rd. at  Octe  than these of 7b gr-        f tosal protin aed 23 gram  of                       fwetncsaeftro  nt ..Ional  o            o.
Isi-'l pro chn an 00 avesg  ler1 the marld,-propse  by PAl in the Third                      tcnosi heeodsr  Hacco - omti  of-pptalo             -ec  is aed h5 nod ee
Word Fee  it-Y;91-01070ad 1917dta,                                                            tote  oaltit fore
Pe rr tarrcis so-ppy fros atma adgpsine - Peetein sopply of food de-
rive  fro  noml  n  pae   ngrm    e   a;M16-65, 1970 aed t97l data.                        INCIfR   DISTRIBUTION
Child (ngsn i-h) leach. Ita  (per thooand)  A-.ol drecis Per I'hln.a.d to                      Pe-c.enot.  of Piott_ Inc-   _(bosh In cool and kind) - he-i-ed by rirhest
age groop 1-4 yer..to t hildcn to this age groap, for mas decIop lot co                           prer...t  riches  20 por-et, poorest 20 p--vt. a-d p-a-  40 p-re-
ceirs deco derired fine life nobles; t9il, 1970 and l9gO date.                                 of _bashods.
goALfTH                                                                                        pPOErif  TARGET GROUPSl
ilfo  oereanoyt noth frarn  - ave.rag  eater of year  of 11f0  eeea                    The fol1ondeg ostimat- are veYaproee  maaro  of P--rrr.y evls
at hirth; 1960, 1970 and 1953 dat..adsel  hr."                                                                leoree    nith ..o.niderable coati-
1sf,met-loclity sets (-etrhnnoad) - A-1o deachs of infants   de- ..t y-a                       intimated Ab_cinie foetty tacom  Le l(1$ctaol                 - ob- and Itta
of  ge  er bmesullic  biths  tol, 197f sod 198H dat.                                  ibnotpcryicm   ee   sca   noelvlbtwaiiartri
Acosa n lft ete  frrnec n  peelaino  -  nte, ohan ae  roat    No-        ntritionolly adcvmte ditr  pls essen.tial non-food reqoiremst  is  n
her of people (ntaf,l arban, .andoel   ith           osbieores  to safe                        aff.tdhle..
maco  -appip fLInoidas iteted  -ofaro waters er oreatd hab anotst aa                         ftimated RIfeltica Preevy ec..- level (Ha  e   c ie   oro  and  -atf 
mar a .-sor  asthe,ffro  protortd b.hacble. eprisga. oaf  -aitary wells) as                     ..raI roefe  pererry in-nm   hovelise-ie   afaeaeproptto
percetags.  of the ~ It-epereiv  poenloel-as.           -fe  .  meera apeblic                  perso-a  Ioro     of the onntry.  frane-   I a- derceed fre  he taco)
fantein or s-dptst I...ted not maecat               mters Teas a h-s  may is                   leve  mini adltmest foe higher tet of livisH  in ache              t rs.
conidered as being aishsrl         nehear         f thee h-oe . latra  orea,"aImtd Pelt   salo  .fAolstt Po,att heaaine   eems(     ra
tessnmaht  sc-e  -and imply chat the h-teafet or mb-r  oftshe I.aehed                          ad rnra  -_ Peres  efrpinon(ro   n  eel  mee   aal
dono  hews ts spd a diaprnpet1isate psetafshe dy  is fesohingth
famiy' seter seeds.
Acces ta  aes  Dfi,rasa  fes,csn ofeena dm)- total, sebes, s    ra-at
Petetae    f their rePective Pe.sia tieea.  f-rrti  dispnaa  maY Lintda
ct   nhsadnn .dipsl   ifts or  itamt tesatmes *f bess  -mnrs.
and w=te-wetet by ease-heo  sysse   or ro ass nf pit erhime- .od aim-
Pean -a   a  Phystn- Papatatiso dietidd by cahte  of prantining phymi-                                                         Er-oit sad lcisl Dat  Division
issqamJitfisi freamdiarsi moe a              -,ivrisy levei                                                               tc_n.le a-lyipsi  nod Prenti-w  1iepa--st
PesitoserMcins Pmama  - -Pnpeltime Mede  by sste    f pranti.sia                                                                        Ky i9K)
=neIag smettise-s



20
GUINEA:   PRESIDENTS' REPORT ANNEX 1
ANnEX I
Pe 4
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 1/                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2,constant prices)
US$ Hln.      2                 1973-77  1977-81  1973-81        1981  1981-85 Projected I/
GNP at Market Prices                1536   100.00                 4.59    -0.22       2.16    -0.57        2.00
Gross Domestic Investment            235    15.32                -6.55      7.09      0.04    -9.10        5.00
Gross National Sevings 2/            160    10.39                -3.44      0.01     -1.70   -34.17
Current Account balance              -76    -4.93                21.25   -39.77      -4.92  -461.81
Exports of Goods,NFS                 490    31.92                30.41      2.35     15.53    -8.06        1.00
Imports of Goods,NFS                -434   -28.28                20.03      3.46     11.44     23.87
OUTPUT,LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY,1981
Value added                    Labor force                   VA per worker
US S wIn         I           thousands         2                uS $          2
Agriculture                                    709    42.13                 2022    82.00                   351    5l.85
Industry and Mining                            367    21.81                  271     10.99                 1343   198.38
Services                                       607    36.07                  173      7.02                 3445   508.86
Total/average                                 1683   100.00                 2466   100.00                   677   100.00
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 3/
Billion Sylis                                           2 of GDP
1978      1979      1980      1981                1978       1979     La0       19S1
Current Receipts                    9.40      9.97     11.09    12.32                31.84    33.02       34.54    34.95
Current Expenditure                 6.64      6.63      7.74      7.21               22.49     21.96      24.11     20.45
Current Surplus                     2.76      3.34      3.35      5.11                9.35      11.06    10.43    14.50
Capital Expenditure 4/              2.12      8.30      3.77      5.96                 7.18    27.49    11.74    16.91
External Assistence (net)5/         1.35      1.15      0.97      1.80                4.58       3.02      3.01      5.12
Central Government
Billion Sylis                                           I of GDP
1978      1979      1980     I198                 1978       1979     180       1981
Current Receipts                    9.10      9.73     10.44    11.52                30.83    32.22    32.52    32.68
Current Expenditure                 6.45      6.44      7.19      7.04               21.8S    21.33    22.39    19.97
Current Surplus                     2.63      3.20      3.25      4.48                 8.98     10.90     10.12    12.71
Capital txpenditure 4/              1.99      8.20      3.70      5.73                6.74      27.16    11.32    16.25
External Assistance (not)5/         1.35      1.15      0.97      1.S0                 4.5d      3.62      3.01      5.11
MONEY,CREDIT AND PRICES
zillion Spyui
Dec.1975 Dec.1979 Dec.1980 Bee.1981
Money 6 quasi-money                           8.95      8.90    12.97    17.17
bank Credit to Public Sector                 11.58      8.61     18.59    22.74
lank Credit to Private Sector                 0.70      0.76      1.21      1.02
Pi  *fstsagS
1978      1097      1880      19l1
Money & quagi-money as S of GD?              30.32    29.47    48.33    41.71
General Price ladex (19S1-100) 6/            83.70    85.58      91. S    IW.66
Annual 2 Chages in:
sink Credit to Publie BEate               -8.18   -ZS.M    184:          88.
lsek Credit to private Seate                1.38      ?. ',              1



21
ANNEX I
Page 5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 7/                                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1979-81)
1978      1979      1980      1981                                             US $ *ln         S
(US $ Million)                           Bauxite                         307.7      68.4
Exports of Goods,NFS                           328       364       497       49C              Alumina                         128.3      28.5
Imports of Goods,NFS                          -314      -362      -394      -435              Diamonds                          1.7         .4
Resource Gap (deficit--)                        14         2       103         5'             Agricultural Co--odities         12.3       2.7
Total                          450.1    100.0
Interest Payments                              -43        46       -51       -51
Workers' Remittances                            -6        -7        -8        -D           EXTERNAL DEBT,Decenber 31,1981
Other Factor Payments (net)                    -33       -38       -74       -8f.                                                    US $ aIn
Net Transfers                                   33         9        17         16          Public & Private Debt Guaranteed
Balance on Current Account                     -37       -81       -13       -7Di             Including Undiabursed                    1620.9
outstanding & Disbursed                 1255.4
Direct Foreign Investment                        6        28        34        3iG
Met MLT Borrowing                                                                          DEBT SERVICE RATIOS FOR 1981
Disbursments,Public Borrowing                112       126       120       139                                                           X
Amortization,Public Borrowing                -93      -109      -108      -10)           Scheduled Service Payments
|      Subtotal,Public Borrowing                     19        17         12       31)             Public & Private Debt Guaranteed           28.0
Private Sector(net)                          -26       -29       -31       -23              Private Debt Non Guaranteed                10.3
Total Borrowing                               -7       -12       -19         2              Total Debt Outstanding &Disbursed          38.3
Capital Grants 8/
Other Capital(net)                               4         3         5         13          Actual Service Payments
Other Items n.i.e.                             -19        34       -45       -42              Public 6 Private Debt Guaranteed           16.9
Increase in Reserves 9/                        -53       -28       -38       -7D              Private Debt Non Guaranteed                10.3
Total Debt Outstanding &Disbursed         27.2
Gross Reserves(end year)                        59        66        99        91
Net Reserves(end year) 9/                     -177      -208      -239      -286           IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30,1982)
US S *In
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                    IBID      IDA
Imports                                                           99       110          Outstanding & Disbursed              50.6      53.6
of which: Petroleum                                             99       110          Undisbursed                           0.0      76.3
Exports                                        0         0         0         0           Outstanding Including
Undisbursed               50.6    129.9
RATES OF EXCNANGE 10/
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       1982
Sylis/US $                    20 .33    21 .38    21.14    19.72    19.11    18.97    20 .93    22 .36
1/ Preliminary estimates
2/ Defined as GDI plus Current Account Balance
3/ Local administration not included
4/ Including capital transfers to,and investment on behalf of,etate etterprises
51 Disbursments less scheduled amortization plus increase in arrears
6/ GDP implicit deflator
7/ Totals may not add due to rounding
8/ Included in net transfers
9/ Discrepancies due to different exchange rates
10/ Period geometric average.
March 1,1983



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Credit                                                                 Amount (less Cancellations)
Number         Year      Borrower              Purpose                 Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
-------(U-S$million)---------
Two loans and two Credits have been fully disbursed                     73.5    21.0
849-GUI        1979      Guinea                First Education                    8.0          1.3
870-GUI        1979      Guinea                First Water Supply               12.5          6.8
and Sanitation
952-GUI        1980      Guinea                Rice Development                 10.4          6.6
953-GUI        1980      Guinea                Second Highway                    13.0         4.1
1063-GUI       1981      Guinea                Livestock                        17.5         16.6
Development
1085-GUI       1981      Guinea                Power Project                    28.5         21.9
1234-GUI       1982      Guinea                Industrial Rehabi-               19.0         19.0
litation and
Promotionl/
Total                                                    73.5   129.9         76.3
of which has been repaid                              22.9      0.0
Total now outstanding                                    50.6   129.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/                        50.6   129.9
Total undisbursed                                          -     76.3         76.3
1/       Not yet effective
2/       Prior to exchange adjustments



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
CR. 849-GUI   First Education Project;  US$8.0 million Credit of September
28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at (i) helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding vocational training programs, and
(ii) strengthening the Government's educational planning and project
implementation capacity. Civil works and equipment installations are
completed, and training courses for skilled workers and technical instructors
started in December 1980. The technical assistance expert team is in post at
the technical institutes. Eighteen Guinean technical instructors have been
successfully trained in Europe. For the educational planning component, two
nationals have been trained in France with UNESCO financing and two additional
Bank-financed fellowships began in October 1982. The country-wide manpower
study has started with two missions by the team of UNESCO consultants. The
Government remains strongly committed to the project, and project management
is satisfactory. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr.870-GUI First Water Supply and Sanitation Project; US$12.5 million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effectiv-eness Date: April 13, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983.
Implementation of the physical works which had been delayed by about
15 months is now progressing reasonably well, and most contracts should be
completed by September 1983. Due to cosi; overruns, some components may have
to be deleted (reservoir) or reduced (disitribution network), but this will not
reduce the overall benefits of the project. Yield expected from groundwater
resources has been lower than expected arid new sources will have to be
developed sooner than anticipated. The rmanagement team of the water entity,
DEG, is making headway, albeit slowly, in structuring and monitoring DEG
operations, and the technical assistance team, though not fully integrated,
has helped bring about significant staff attitude changes within DEG and
technical improvements in operations. The Government is seeking ways to
improve overall efficiency and obtain fiaancial viability in water operations,
and has asked the Bank to use uncommitted funds for an institutional study
presenting managerial and structural alternatives. The preparation of
technical studies for water systems in regional centers with UNCDF assistance
is now underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the Drogress of projects in execution, and, in particular, to
report any problems which are being encountered and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 952-GUI Rice Development Project, US$10.4 million Credit of November
2, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  April 14, 1980; Closing Date:  June
30, 1985.
The project consists of creating a specialized planning and
coordination unit for rice development within the Ministry of Agriculture,
upgrading the country's rice research capacity, undertaking a study of
agricultural prices and rural incentives, and carrying out a pilot project to
test and develop technical improvements to rice cultivation practices by
smallholder farmers. The project's technical assistance team and the producer
incentives study team initiated work in mid-1980. Most of the project's
equipment was delivered by the second half of 1981. During 1981 a limited
field program was carried out under the pilot project and the research
stations. A larger program is being initiated for the 1982 season. Progress
on the producer incentives study has been satisfactory; the final report is
expected to be submitted by early 1983. The construction program was
seriously delayed by the financial difficulties of the contractor concerned;
however, a new contract has now been signed and interim facilities have been
established. Project progress is considered satisfactory.
Cr. 953-GUI Second Highway Project; US$13 million Credit of November 2,
1979, Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a three-year program of road rehabilitation
and maintenance with further institutional support to the Ministry of Public
Works, renovation of the National Soils Laboratory, and pre-investment studies
on the Conakry-Mamou Road. The first year was used to complete the program
begun under the First Project, and the second year to start rehabilitation of
an additional 1,500 km of priority gravel roads. Due to misuse of project
equipment and funds, force account brigades' output was unsatisfactory until a
Ministerial re-shuffle in March 1982. A new work program was set up to
maximize physical outputs with the remaining funds, and the Government agreed
to give new responsabilities to the consultant. As of October 1982, the new
work program was being satisfactorily implemented, and project completion is
expected in June 1983.
Cr. 1063-GUI Livestock Development Project: SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5
million equivalent) Credit of November 21, 1980: Effectiveness
Date: July 31, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project's objective is to increase the productivity of the
Guinean cattle herd, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production,
improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of cattle-herding
families. The project consists of a nationwide vaccination program, provision
of drugs, medicines and mineral licks, provision of credit to increase
availability of draft traction, and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
veterinary support service. The project is currently not proceeding as
anticipated due to the following problems: i) official cattle marketing
(despite agreement to abolish the official cattle marketing system, the
Government continues to confiscate cattle fr-om herdsmen at unrealistically low
prices); ii) local funds (although counterpart funding is usually not a
problem in Guinea, the Government has paid only Sylis 7 million into the
Project Account while the budget calls for Sylis 35 million); and iii)
administration (procedures to withdraw operating funds from the Project
Account are cumbersome and slow, jeopardizing project operations). Intensive
(         discussions are in progress to resolve these problems.
Cr. 1085-GUI First Power Project; SDR 22.1 million (US$28.5 million
equivalent) Credit of February 10, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 12, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is intended to rehabil:itate and reinforce the
distribution system for the city of Conakry, construct a training center,
housing units and operating facilities for implementation of a training
program, and strengthen the Societe NationaL d'Electricite (SNE) through
consulting services and technical assistance programs. Most contracts for
works and procurement of supplies have been signed, and the technical
assistance team has been recruited. Negotiations are underway to recruit
consultants for an organizational study of the power sector aimed at
strengthening SNE.
Cr. 1234-GUI Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project; SDR 16.6
million (US$19.0 million equivalent) Credit of June 24, 1982;
Not yet effective; Closing Date:  December 31, 1988.
The project aims at: i) creating A capability within the Government
for formulation and planning of industrial sector policy; ii) supporting new
policy of shifting some of the responsibility for national production, import
substitution and employment creation from tne public to the private sector;
and iii) improving the performance of four selected public enterprises. The
project will finance consultants for the Guinean Government, promotion of
private sector enterprises through a line of credit and technical assistance,
and training to Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Habitat (to
enable it to act as the local financial intermediary), and feasibility
studies, external auditing and complete rehabilitation of four state-owned
enterprises.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identified:                       September 1979
(b)  Project Appraisal:                        January/February 1982
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                   March 1, 1983
(d)  Planned Date of Credit Effectiveness:   July 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advances have been used to help finance architectural design
work, preparation of bidding documents, and training of local
construction supervisors and specialized technical personnel (para.
39).
Section III: Special Conditions
Government has provided assurances on the following principal items:
(a) a program for implemerntation of recommendations of the planned
education sector and manpower study would be reviewed with IDA by
June 30, 1984 (para. 35); and
(b) separate studies would be carried out and submitted to IDA for review
as follows: (i) by June 30, 1985, a vocational training development
study (para. 42); (ii) by June 30, 1985, a study to plan development
of the teacher training system (para. 43); and (iii) by June 30,
1986, a student tracer study of vocational training graduates and
students in agro-zootechnic fields (para. 42).
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  opening of a foreign exchange Special Account for deposit of an
advance of US$60,000 from proceeds of the IDA Credit, and opening of
a local currency Revolving Account with an initial deposit of Syli
3.5 million to finance the Government's contribution to project costs
(para. 49);
(b) establishment of a General Educational Planning Directorate and an
Education 'Projects Directorate, with terms of reference, organization
and staffing acceptable to IDA (paras. 42 and 47); and
(c) effectiveness of the Credit Agreement with the African Development
Fund and the Grant Agreement with the Saudi Fund (para. 45).



_______ _______ ______ _______ ______ ____   __  ______        ______     _______      ______IB R D                                              164 62
MA UR I TAN IA                                                                                                                                                                                                               JU ]~I  L~Y 1982
SENFT2AL          N  GEE 
JPPER              *<                                                                                                                                             M       A         L       I
JIMAVO,LTA                                                kI
OAFSTS  OIHANA            I2
GUI NEA                                                                                                                                      F K )
10. ~ ~   ~ ~ -
SECOND EDUCAT-ION PROjECT
DE_X/FAvIF~L P,OIEc LTUDL/AT/ON                                                        j
VOCATIONAL TRAINUNG                     CONAV RY
FORMS/lOON PROEE/VIOANFVZ/ IFoOO                                                  /
Voc-to,-I T-a o-g In-t totes
Techo tol I t,troOtor Too nL l                                           I        EtR    R    A
/'Eoo ,,otrr/ ......Ror(/ FORPE
CnslStoseg. Uo,t
FDUCATIONAL AND  HUAAAN  RESOURCES PLANNIN
PLAN/F/CA7109N OLF I PDICMON  ET 0,ES RESSDUACL  HU //14AI/NE4 
PRIMARY EDUCATION 
ENSE/OGNEMENT  P,R/MA/RiE                                                                                                                                                                                                                A,
Ecolt A -rratr d' l       's toour  (ENi5j7~1
NwoI-ot  Prdogog-ol                                                                           KILCtMEToIA
E d-oot- P-nt 5nop
In,p-oa,s d, /Ldo..af-on  /do /0 Co//oc `1OE/I
EDUCATION PROJECTS DIRECTORATE
9fECOI 5O PROJFT.5 EOUICATIt'Io                                                       LrIootooE bR,rao e
Muir Toods         '                                  'pPrort,j,ro Alia
dVoot    f 
Roleooas ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                                                                                                                                                     ) 0o                                   P



