Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  ,
Report No. 4071-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUINEA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Mar-ch 3, 1983
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizntion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Sylis
US$1.00               Sylis 23.00
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)   =   0.39 square mile
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)          =   10.76 square feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY                                                                          iii
BASIC DATA                                                                         iv
I.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ...........................    1
A.  Social and Economic Background ..........................    i
B.  The Education System ....................................    3
C.  The Government's Strategy for Educational Development ...               8
D.  The Bank Group's Role in the Sector .....................   10
II. THE PROJECT .....il........... il
A.  Project Summary .        ........................................   il
B.  Project Components ..........         ............................   12
Vocational Training Institutes .....            ...................   13
Technical Instructor Training Institute ....           ...........   14
Central Supply Unit ........         ...........................   14
Educational and Human Resources Planning ....           ..........   14
National Pedagogical Institute .....           ...................   15
Production and Distribution of
Primary School Textbooks ......           ......................   16
Primary Teacher Training Colleges .....            ................   17
Project Management .........         ...........................   18
III.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN .............................   19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................   25
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................   29
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................   30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that`
visited Guinea from January 23 to February il, 1982. The mission members
were Messrs. D. Rouag (general educator), B. Dahlborg (technical educator),
A. Papineau (architect), A. LeBel (economist-consultant), and N. Burton
(printing and publishing consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Structure of the Education System
2.   Comparative Education Indicators
3.   Labor Force and Employment
4.   Enrollments and Teachers
5.   Comparison of Per Student Costs in West Africa
6.   Projections of Recurrent Expenditures (1985-1995)
7.   External Financing for Development Projects
8.   Cost Summary
9.   Financing Plan
10.   Summary of Specialist Services
il.   Summary of Fellowships
12.   Implementation Schedule
13.   Schedule of Disbursements
14.   Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditures
15.   List of Related Documents
Map No. 16462



- iii -
GLOSSARY
AfDF      African Development Fund                Fonds Africain de Développement
CER       Revolutionary Education Center          Centre d'Education Révolutionnaire
(name of schools in Guinea)
COTRA     National Transportation Company         Compagnie Nationale de Transport
DEF       Education and Training Division         Division de l'Education et de la Formation
DPE       Education Projects Directorate          Direction des Projets Education
DGPE      General Educational Planning            Direction Générale de la Planification
Directorate                            de l'Education
DGT       General Directorate of Labor            Direction Générale du Travail
EEC       European Economic Community             Communauté Economique Européenne
ENI       Primary Teacher Training College        Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs/trices
FAPA      Agro-pastoral farm                      Ferme Agro-pastorale d'Arrondissement
IDEC      Educational Printing Office             Imprimerie de l'Education et de la Culture
IPN       National Pedagogical Institute          Institut Pédagogique National
IPS       Vocational Training Institute           Institut Polytechnique Secondaire
ISFORPET  Technical Instructor Training           Institut Supérieur de Formation des
Institute                              Professeurs de l'Enseignement Technique
MEPU      Ministry of Pre-University              Ministère de l'Enseignement Pré-
Education and Literacy                 Universitaire et de l'Alphabétisation
MESRS     Ministry of Higher Education            Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur
and Scientific Research                et de la Recherche Scientifique
METMFP    Ministry of Technical Education         Ministère de l'Enseignement Technique
and Vocational Training                Moyen et de la Formation Professionnelle
MPS       Ministry of Planning and Statistics  Ministère du Plan et de la Statistique
PDG       Democratic Party of Guinea              Parti Démocratique de Guinée
PRA       District Government Authority           Pouvoir Révolutionnaire d'Arrondissement
PRL       Local Government Authority              Pouvoir Révolutionnaire Local
SF        Saudi Fund for Development              Fonds Saoudien pour le Développement
USAID     United States Agency for                Agence des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pour
International Development              le Développement International






- iv -
GUINEA
BASIC DATA
General (1979)
CDP per capita                                 US$290
Land area                                      246,000 km2
Population (1980)                              5.4 million
of which:  urban                             1.0 million
rural                            4.4 million
Population growth rate                         2.6%
urban                            6.1%
Life expectancy at birth                       44.5
Literacy rate                                  20%
Enrollment in Education (1978/79)
Gross
Enrollment Pupil/Teacher
Level                 Age Group  Enrollment  % Female   Ratio             Ratio
Primary                  7-12      252,100       34.6       34%            39
Lower secondary         13-15       54,848       27.9        18%
Upper secondary         16-18       32,338       26.4       13%            29
Technical education   16-18          2,771       15.1
Higher education        19-22       23,196       19.7         7%           36
Education Expenditures (1978/79)
Recurrent expernditures on education as a %
of total governnent recurrent budget              17.5%
Recurrent budget as a % of GDP                        4.1%
Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures
Primary                                              25
Secondary general                                    26
Secondary technical                                   2
Teacher training                                      4
Higher education                                     26
Scholarships                                          2
Literacy, distance learning programs and
research                                            1
Administration                                        8
Other (incl. costs of technical assistance)           6
Average Annual Cost per Student (1978/79)               Sylis          US$
Primary                                            1,250           54
Secondary                                         4,675           203
Teacher training (primary)                       17,050           760
Secondary technical                              14,975           651
Higher education
First level                                     5,950           258
Second level                                   13,850           602






1. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Background
Population
1.01      Guinea ranks among the least developed countries in West Africa,
with a population of 5.4 million (1980) and a GDP per capita of US$290. The
annual population growth rate is about 2.6% overall and 6.1% in urban areas.
About 80% of the people live in rural areas, life expectancy at birth is 44.5
years (among the lowest in the world), and infant mortality rates are still
high at 30% of the 1-4 age group. Caloric intake is about 84% of requirements,
and about 88% of the population do not have access to safe drinking water.
The relatively young population (51.8% are under 19), coupled with increasing
economie development activity and an adult literacy rate of only about 20%,
makes providing of adequate opportunities for education and training a sub-
stantial burden on the Government budget. However, efforts to provide these
opportunities are complicated by the existence of six official languages
besides French, which is spoken by only the formally educated.
Political Organization
1.02      The only political party, "Parti Démocratique de Guinée" (PDG),
controls much of the economic and political decision-making; through an
efficient organizational network, it operates the education system and other
social services from the national to the village level. Party institutions
have either direct administrative functions or supervise all government
activities.
The Economy
1.03      Well endowed with arable land, water and mineral resources, Guinea
is potentially one of the richest countries in West Africa. However, economic
development has been constrained over the 20 years since independence by
inadequate economic planning and management and a low level of human resource
development. Since 1958, when Guinea left the French Union and became inde-
pendent, the Government has used a Marxist but essentially nationalistic
ideology, expressed through the PDG, to promote self-sufficiency and economic
independence. Its ideological objectives are implemented for economie manage-
ment through the extensive use of public enterprises, administrative pricing,
and other instruments of direct control.
1.04      The management of a centrally planned economy, with state ownership
of the principal means of production and resource allocation through cen-
tralized decision-making rather than market mechanisms, places heavy demands
on public administration. At the same time the necessary high- and middle-
level manpower is in short supply. The lack of adequately trained staff for
the planning and administration of the economic and financial system is
reflected in inadequate data collection and processing, inadequate investment
planning and insufficient project preparation, implementation and supervision
capabilities. Public enterprise performance is poor in all sectors. The
Government is rehabilitating some of them while entering into joint ventures
with private investors to create mixed enterprises.



- 2 -
1.05       The productive and financial bases for a more dynamic economy have
been strengthened since 1973 by the opening of two major bauxite mines.
Economic activity increased by 21% in real terms between 1973 and 1979, at an
average annual rate of 3.2%. The rapid real growth of the mining sector at
20% per annum increased its contribution to GDP from 4.2% in 1973 to 18.5% in
1979. Higher bauxite exports and favorable world prices for bauxite and
aluminum increased Government revenues.  Major investments were made to
mechanize agricultural operations. Nonetheless, rural sector output stagnated
and its share in GDP decreased from 58% to 41% between 1973 and 1979. The
main reasons for this were the lack of producer incentives, misdirected
application of mechanization, crop plagues and drought in some years.
Prospects
1.06       Since 1978, improvements in economic performance have been further
encouraged by more pragmatic policies, in particular by improved political
and economic relations with Western countries and with neighboring countries
which have encouraged trade and increased access to international aid. Recent
analyses and projections indicate that in both the short and medium term,
economic growth will continue to hinge critically on the rate of growth in the
mining sector. On the other hand, long-term prospects depend on efforts to
promote rural development, especially the Government's ability to provide
incentives to smallholder farmers. As balance of payment difficulties are
likely to persist for several more years, the success of Guinea's development
efforts will depend upon the availability of external financing for key
investment projects.
Manpower
1.07       Guinea does not have a conventional labor market.  The sudden
departure of the colonial administration in 1958 created critical manpower
shortages. Those Guineans who were suddenly placed in positions of respon-
sibility learned quickly on the job and performed quite well, but continuing
shortages of qualified and experienced administrators and managers have hurt
the economy. Furthermore, implementation of public programs has suffered
because civil servants rarely receive the training they need to become effi-
cient administrators; for example, most senior officials in the education
sector are trained as teachers and not as managers.
1.08       The total labor force in Guinea is estimated at 2.3 million people,
representing 45% of the total population (1978). Total wage employment in
the modern sector is estimated at 140,000 people (1979), of whom about 40,000
are in the civil service and 34,000 in rural enterprises (Annex 3). Guinea
does not have a conventional labor market and outside the mining sector, and
private wage employment is limited to domestic activities and the informal
sector.
1.09       Employment in the public sector is guaranteed by law to all graduates
of vocational training institutes and universities, and the graduates are
assigned to jobs by the Ministry of Labor. However, the Governent has recently
said that it does not believe that the state should be expected to provide



- 3 -
employment to graduates indefinitely, and it may reconsider its policies.
Meanwhile, manpower and educational planning has not been sufficiently
developed to control student flows through the education system, and to
effectively correlate output with employment opportunities in the modern
sector. This has led to an excessive supply of secondary school and uni-
versity graduates throughout the economy. The agricultural sector has had a
particularly large excess of middle- and higher-level graduates in technical
engineering and veterinary occupations. By 1979, the annual output of
agricultural technicians was 2,300 as compared with a maximum projection of
annual manpower requirements of roughly 1,500 workers. The output of agri-
cultural engineers and veterinarians in the same year was 1,700 as compared
with an estimated maximum annual requirement of about 400 graduates.
1.10      The excess resulted from the creation of faculties of agriculture
at the university level in 24 of the country's 33 administrative regions
between 1976 and 1979, increasing the total number of these faculties from
7 to 33 during this period. There were about 2,000 graduates in 1976 and 4,000
in 1979. Most of these were assigned to work in 320 agro-pastoral farms
(FAPAs) that were created in 1979, and it is expected that by the end of 1982
more than 10,000 graduates will have been placed on the FAPAs. The Govern-
ment intends to pay the salaries of the agronomists and technicians during the
first three years. However, serious difficulties have occurred in the start-up
of these FAPAs and the Government is reviewing its policies in this respect
and bas reduced the number of new entrants to the agricultural faculties
(para. 1.34). In contrast to the surplus of workers in high-level technicai
agricultural occupations, skilled workers, as well as competent managers and
administrators, are in short supply throughout the economy.
1.11      In the industrial sector, the situation is similar.  The annual
supply of engineers is about five times the number of available job openings.
Although the supply and demand are roughly equal for skilled workers in the in-
dustrial sector, they lack minimum skill levels for effective job performance.
B.   The Education System
1.12      The structure of the education system in Guinea is shown in
Annex 1. Six years of primary education are followed by three years of
lower secondary school. Students can continue their studies in secondary
technical schocls, which offer terminal technical and vocational programs, or
in a general course that prepares them for the baccalaureate and entrance
to institutions of higher education. Enrollment and staffing details are
shown in Annex 4. The country's political orientation is reflected in the
organization of the school system: schools are called "Centres d'Education
Révolutionnaire" (CERs) and each one is administered by a board composed
of student delegates and presided over by the school's principal.
Organization
1.13      Responsibility for education and training is shared by three mini-
stries: (a) "Ministère de l'Enseignement Pré-Universitaire et de l'Alphabé-
tisation" (MEPU), responsible for primary and secondary general education and



- 4 -
for literacy programs; (b) "Ministère de l'Enseignement Technique Moyen et de
fa Formation Professionnelle" (METMFP), responsible for secondary technlcal
education; and (c) "Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique" (MESRS), responsible for higher education and secondary teacher
training. The educational administration maintains close links with the
Educational Commission of the PDG, which is responsible for the formulation
of sector policies and for monitoring their implementation, and is headed by
the Minister of Higher Education.
1.14      Both the MESRS and the MEPU have planning units.  The MEPU unit
was established only recently and is not yet fully operational. The planning
unit in the MESRS was established in 1976, but it is not well staffed and its
technical capacities are very weak. The collection and analysis of educational
data are inadequate in both ministries. The METMFP was established only in
February 1981 and is not yet fully organized.
1.15      Educational research and curriculum development are the responsi-
bility of the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN), which is attached to
the MEPU and which is also in charge of teacher upgrading and the production
of educational materials. The IPN's technical capacity is inadequate to deal
with its responsibilities. Textbook printing is handled by the "Imprimerie de
l'Education et de la Culture" (IDEC), which is attached to the distance
learning services of the MESRS; its low efficiency is due mainly to the
insufficient number of textbook manuscripts provided by IPN, but also to
the inefficient use and maintenance of the equipment.
1.16      The responsibility for manpower planning is shared by the Ministry
of Planning's education and training division ("Division de l'Education et de
la Formation" - DEF) and the Ministry of Labor, specifically the Directorate
General of Labor ("Direction Générale du Travail" - DGT).
1.17      Since independence, Guinea has implemented one of the most far-
reaching educational reforms in West Africa, using local languages as media
of instruction at the primary level, obliging students to participate in
productive agricultural work, and organizing mass literacy programs. Guinea
has been able to rapidly expand enrollment rates and to train a large number
of technicians and professionals. Few attempts were made, however, to link
this post-primary educational expansion with economic objectives or future
manpower needs. The sweeping nature of the reform, combined with rapid
enrollment growth, has resulted in a low quality of education at all levels.
The main issues in the education and training sector at present are (a) low
access to primary education, (b) low quality of instruction, (c) inadequate
external efficiency, (d) inefficient allocation of available resources, and
(e) weakness of the key educational institutions.
Access to Education
1.18      At independence, educational opportunities in Guinea were among the
lowest in Africa:  the gross enrollment ratio was about 10% at the primary
level and less than 1% at the secondary level, and there was a total lack of



- 5 -
facilities for higher education. Guinea's secondary school enrollment ratio
(15%) is now among the highest in the region and its higher education enroll-
ment ratio (7%) exceeds the ratios in all other West African countries.
Unfortunately, the primary school enrollment ratio remains among the lowest in
the region, due to the weak financial capabilities of the Local Goverunnent
Authorities as well as the reluctance of parents to enroll their children
either for soclo-cultural reasons, as in the case of girls, or for economic
reasons, such as having the children help with field work. Only about 34% of
the 7-12 age group is enrolled in prlmary school, and this ratio varies
considerably among regions and by sex.  The female proportion of enrollments
is likewise low, with girls comprising 34% of all students at the primary
level, 27% at the secondary and 20% at the university level.
1.19      The Government has begun a program to increase school enrollments,
especially in rural areas, where enrollments are particularly low, and where
incomes are the lowest, by allocating central government funds for school
construction to the PRLs to compensate for regional disparities in enrollment
ratios. Alternative formulas for school organization and schedules should be
considered, however, to take account of the need for children of poor rural
families to help with field work during the planting and harvesting seasons.
Quality of Education
1.20      There are numerous indications that the quality of formal education
in Guinea is low. The shortage of classrooms bas resulted in crowded classes,
mainly in urban areas. Sixty percent of the primary school teachers and 75%
of the secondary school teachers are not qualified. Primary teacher training
is unbalanced, with only 16% of the time allocated for professional training.
Textbooks and equipment are almost totally lacking at all educational levels
and laboratory facilities are virtually nonexistent. As a result the teach-
ing/learning process is limited to lecturing, note-taking and recitation.
Since 1960 the six national languages have been used, but the students are not
sufficiently prepared for the transition from the national languages to French
as the language of instruction at the secondary level. This adversely affects
comprehension and learning capacities in secondary education, particularly in
mathematics and sciences, and consequently students enter higher education
with substantial deficiencies. Furthermore, a highly theoretical curriculum,
a lack of equipment and consumable materials, and poorly qualified instructors
have led to poor qualitative results in the vocational training institutes
("Instituts Polytechniques Secondaires"-IPS).
1.21      The poor quality of teaching conditions has had a negative impact on
the internal efficiency of the system and only about one-third of those
startirng primary education, half of those starting lower secondary education,
and about one-quarter of those starting upper secondary education complete
each level without repetition.
1.22      Although the reform of the educational system (para. 1.17) has
generally had a positive impact in adapting to the socio-economic environ-
ment, the Government is well aware of the system's weaknesses.  It has



- 6 -
already decided to take measures to improve the quality of education such as
improving teacher training programs at all levels, providing an adequate
supply of textbooks and teaching aids to the schools, reducing overcrowding in
urban primary and lower secondary classrooms, providing adequate laboratories
and equipment in secondary and higher education institutions, and improving
the quality of French language instruction.
External efficiency
1.23      The Government has consistently emphasized the role of the education
system as a supplier of skilled manpower but has not been able to link the
development of the system with the needs of the economy and consequently has
over-produced low-quality graduates of middle- and higher-level education and
at the same time has failed to train sufficient numbers of skilled workers.
Between 1960 and 1970 the development of secondary education was emphasized
and educational priority and enrollments increased tenfold. Then, under the
pressure of increasing numbers of secondary school graduates demanding access
to higher education, and with the objective of promoting agriculture, the
Government in 1973 shifted its priority to the rapid growth--and eventual
over-expansion--of higher-level agricultural education; however, the major
foeus was on engineering and technician training, while skilled worker
training was almost totally neglected.
1.24      The mismatch between manpower requirements and education has been
compounded by the Government's dual commitment to provide at least 12 years
of education to every child entering the education system and to guarantee
employment to vocational training and university graduates. Students' efforts
to obtain enough education to qualify for guaranteed employment, together with
low standards of promotion, have resulted in high transition rates between
primary and lower secondary education (87%) and between lower and upper
secondary education (80%). Also, the same standardized general education
program of 12 years is now offered to all students prior to further speciali-
zation in universities, primary teacher training colleges, or even IPS
skilled-worker training programs. Although the theoretical IPS entrance level
is the completion of lower secondary education (Grade 9), about 75% of the
students admitted in 1979 had completed Grade 12 but failed the baccalaureate
examination.
1.25      The emphasis on the expansion of enrollments in higher education
and the relative neglect of primary education and skilled worker training,
combined with the prevailing employment policy, have influenced economic
policies. To create employment for university graduates, public investments
in agriculture are oriented toward suboptimal projects in large-scale mecha-
nized agriculture. The civil service and state enterprises are over-staffed.
As a result, Government expenditures on wages and salaries and on subsidies to
state-owned enterprises are increasing, the urban demand for imported goods is
escalating, and the smallholder farmer is being neglected.



- 7 -
1.26      To match the output of the education system more closely to the
requirements of the economy, the Government has established higher examination
and graduation standards to control student flows at the secondary level and
has also decreased the number of students in higher education, particularly in
the agricultural faculties (para. 1.34). It has also prepared a draft decree
altering requirements for entrance to teacher training colleges and the
duration of specific streams in vocational training schools, and has adjusted
these streams more closely to the skills-training requirement of specific
jobs. However, significant changes in the system's structure and management
will still be required. The duration and the content of both general educa-
tion and specialized training need to be reviewed and the flow of students
through the education system controlled to more closely reflect the human
resource requirements of the economy.
1.27      To this end, the Government is undertaking, with financial support
from IDA under the First Education Project (Cr 849-GUI), employment surveys and
a manpower study in the key sectors of the economy to prepare projections of
future manpower requirements, by industry and by occupation, and to develop
job profiles. The first phase of this study is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1983 and present education and training policies will be reviewed in
light of these studies and surveys.
Educational Costs and Financing
1.28      Education at all levels is free and the Government finances nearly
all education expenditures except primary and lower secondary investments,
which are financed by the local and district government authorities (PRLs and
PRAs). In addition, profits from productive school activities, estimated at
2% of the total recurrent education budget, provide valuable financial support
to the schools. The cost per student is estimated at about UJS$54 for primary
education and US$203 for secondary education, representing 18% and 70% of GDP
per capita. The unit costs per student at the higher education level are
estimated at US$258 and US$602 for the first and second levels respectively.
As a percentage of GDP, these unit costs are comparable to those in neigh-
boring countries (Annex 5).
1.29      In 1978, Guinea's recurrent education expenditures accounted for
4.1% of GDP and 17.5% of the total recurrent budget. This is about average
for West African countries, but the figures are not strictly comparable
because of different accounting and budgetary procedures. In 1979 the
Government spent about 60% of its recurrent education budget on secondary
and higher education. The achievements in secondary and higher education
(para 1.18) have, through their impact on the budgetary structure, curtailed
primary education expansion, with only about 25% of the Government's recurrent
expenditure allocated for primary education. Therefore, any further signifi-
cant expansion of primary education has to be linked to a decrease in the
relative allocation to secondary and higher education in the education
recurrent budget. A recent sector review report, prepared with Unesco's
assistance, attempts to quantify high-level manpower needs and suggests some



- 8 -
specific enrollment targets and policy measures.  The report' s recommenda-
tions have been accepted by the Government and will be used as a basis for the
Bank Group's continuing dialogue with the Government. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will prepare a program
for the implementation of the policy recommendations of the sector review
report and the manpower study (para. 1.27) including enrollment targets and a
schedule for accomplishing specific objectives, discuss this program with IDA
prior to June 30, 1984, and at regular intervals review implementation progress
with the Association.
Institutional Weakness
1.30      As in many other West African countries, the weaknesses of key
institutions in Guinea's education sector (MEPU, MESRS, METMFP, IPN, IDEC,
Education and Training Division in the Ministry of Planning and Statistics)
are a serious obstacle to coherent sector planning, project preparation and
educational evaluation. Adequate educational and manpower planning are of
particular importance in the context of the country's centrally planned
economy, where the Government is responsible for a much broader range of
activities than in market economies. The Government should therefore give
high priority to the preparation of a comprehensive strategy for the develop-
ment of the education system, taking into account the financial constraints,
manpower priorities and need for quality improvements at all levels. The
assistance provided under the First Education Project to undertake a manpower
study and to strengthen the technical capacity of the planning unit of the
MESRS (para. 1.14) is an important first step in this direction. The Govern-
ment recently decided to move further in this direction by establishing a
General Educational Planning Directorate ("Direction Générale de la Planifica-
tion de l'Education" - DGPE) and an Education Projects Directorate ("Direction
des Projets Education" - DPE) that will serve all three education ministries.
1.31      The capacity of the IPN for curriculum development and for educa-
tional evaluation is limited and should be strengthened quickly in view of the
need to provide guidance to policy makers with regard to investment decisions
aiming at qualitative improvements.
C.   The Government's Strategy for Educational Development
1.32      Since independence, the Government has aimed at establishing a
system of mass education that would offer broad and continual educational
opportunities to both children and adults by expanding the formal education
system to meet the educational needs of school-age children and by mounting a
mass literacy campaign to provide basic education for adults. However, this
policy did not take sufficient account of diversity in the occupational
structure and qualifications of the different economic sectors. Consequently,
the Government is becoming increasingly aware of the key issues facing the
sector and intends to:
(a) train skilled workers for industry and agriculture in vocational
schools, thus offering secondary school leavers an alternative
to higher education;



- 9 -
(b) strengthen human resources planning to match the output of the
education system more closely to the manpower requirements of
the economy;
(c) lower the pass rates in secondary school examinations and
decrease the proportion of secondary school leavers admitted
to higher education; and
(d) improve the quality of education through the provision of teaching
materials and improvements in teacher training, starting with
primary education.
These objectives support the Government's overall economic development
strategy, which gives priority to the development of the mining sector and a
revitalization of agriculture (para. 1.06).
1.33      The Government's strategy is conceptually valid and commendable,
but is not yet expressed as a set of coherent quantitative targets with
a schedule for specific actions. Therefore, the Government's planning
and project preparation capacities need to be strengthened to enable it to
implement its basically sound sectoral objectives through a balanced and
coherent strategy and a series of well-prepared projects.
1.34      To achieve a better match between education system outputs and
the country's manpower requirements, the Government has already taken steps
to:
(a) reorganize and increase staff and responsibilities of the planning
units responsible for manpower and education in the Planning and
Education ministries;
(b) lower the pass rates in secondary schools and decrease the propor-
tion of secondary school leavers admitted to higher education; this
has already decreased the number of baccalaureate candidates from
9,200 in 1977-78 to 5,100 in 1979 and decreased the success rate for
this examination during the same period;
(c) decrease the number of students in higher education particularly in
agriculture, by not recruiting first-year students in eight out of
33 agro-zootechnic departments in 1981-82;
(d) train skilled workers for industry and agriculture in vocational
schools after nine years of general education, and at the same time
review the admission level, the duration of training and the
curriculum of the training streams; and
(e) improve the quality of education through the provision of teaching
materials and improvements in teacher training starting with primary
education.



- 10 -
Assistance Outside the Bank Group
1.35      In addition to the Bank Group, several agencies are providing
assistance to the education sector (Annex 7). USAID and EEC are financing
improvements (construction and equipment) for two of the agricultural schools.
The EEC is also financing equipment and scholarships for a broad range of
projects in the sector. Socialist countries are also an important source of
technical assistance.
D.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
Previous Investments
1.36      The Bank Group's sectoral strategy has reflected the limited knowledge
of the education sector in Guinea and lending was restricted to investments
that satisfied clearly identified and high-priority manpower needs. This
strategy has had a dual focus: lending for project-related training and for
the development of important and well-defined subsectors of the education
system. The Bank Croup has introduced training components into highway, water
supply, power and agricultural projects and IDA has provided US$8.0 million
for the First Education Project (Cr. 849-GUI) to help the Government to
improve and expand training programs for industrial technicians and skilled
workers. The IDA credit was signed on September 28, 1978, and became effective
on January 16, 1979.
1.37      Thorough preparation and efficient project management have contri-
buted to outstanding implementation performance. The appraisal target
dates for physical implementation have been met and the project institutions
were operational by the end of 1980. Higher than expected inflation led to
cost overruns of about 10%, which were met by the Government. The project is
meeting all of its institutional development objectives, although the manpower
study did not get underway until early in 1982. The project is expected to
be completed by June 30, 1983.
Sectoral Strategy
1.38      Based on the findings of a Country Economic Memorandum, the Bank
Group's dialogue with the Government has intensified recently with the com-
pletion of a thorough analysis of the economy. Policy recommendations
emphasize the need to:
(a)  promote economic growth by broadening the country's export resource
base through investments in the productive sectors, especially
mining and agriculture;
(b)  remove development bottlenecks, including manpower shortages;-
(c)  strengthen economic management and promote substantive policy
reforms;



- il -
(d) encourage foreign investment, with the Bank Group taking a
leadership role whenever appropriate; and
(e)  improve income distribution through increases in rural incomes
relative to urban incomes.
In accordance with these policy recommendations, support of technical voca-
tional training for the modern sector remains an important objective of Bank
Group lending. However, increased sectoral knowledge and efficient project
implementation justify broadening the scope of education lending. Key issues
that remain to be addressed are:
(a)  the low primary enrollment ratio and resulting high adult illiteracy
rate, which is likely to be a serious constraint on the Government's
efforts to increase agricultural productivity and rural income
(paras. 1.18 and 1.19); and
(b)  the poor quality of primary education and technical vocational
training (para. 1.20).
1.39      This broader sector strategy requires that the Bank Group continue
the dialogue with the Government in respect of a number of fundamental policy
issues, such as:
(a)  a revision of the system of guaranteed employment for vocational
training, and university graduates (para. 1.09);
(b)  the possible reduction in the minimum number of years of general
education that the Government is providing to all students (para.
1.24);
(c)  the lowering of entrance requirements for all teacher training
colleges (para. 1.26); and
(d)  the need to control the quality and number of students throughout
the education system in line with the manpower requirements of the
economy (para. 1.27).
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
2.01       The project's principal objectives, which reflect the Government's
sectoral priorities (para. 1.32) are to:
(a)  emphasize improvement of vocational school training;



- 12 -
(b) develop the manpower and education planning capacity required
to formulate a quantified strategy for addressing the external
efficiency issues; and
(c) improve the quality of primary education.
B.   Project Components
2.02      The project would be implemented over the five-year period of
1983-88, and would have the following components:
(a) Vocational training
(i) construction, furniture, equipment, materials, incremental
operating costs and fellowships for three existing Vocational
Training Institutes (IPSs) to expand and improve their existing
facilities and their programs for training skilled workers;
(ii) equipment, consumable materials, specialist services and
fellowships for the Technical Instructor Training Institute
(ISFORPET) to support its regular training program, assist with
curriculum development; and
(iii) furniture, equipment, specialist services and fellowships to
develop a Central Supply Unit to carry out the procurement and
supply of equipment, spare parts, and working materials for the
IPSs.
(b) Educational and Human Resources Planning
(i) furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs and spe-
cialist services and fellowships to establish a General
Educational Planning Directorate (DGPE) to strengthen the
national capability for educational planning; and
(ii) furniture, equipment, incremental operating costs, specialist
services and fellowships to strengthen the Education and
Training Division (DEF) responsible for the planning of human
resources development within the Ministry of Planning and
Statistics (MPS).
(c) Improvement of the quality of primary education
(i) construction, furniture, equipment, incremental operating
costs, specialist services and fellowships to upgrade and
expand the facilities of the National Pedagogical Institute
(IPN), to build up a capability for reviewing teaching methods
and preparing primary school textbook manuscripts, and to
upgrade primary school inspectors and familiarize them with the
new teaching methods and textbooks;



- 13 -
(ii) construction, furniture and equipment to improve and expand
the existing facilities of the Educational Printing Office
(IDEC); consumable materials, incremental operating costs,
specialist services and fellowships for the production and
distribution of primary school textbooks; and
(iii) construction, furniture, equipment and incremental operating
costs to upgrade and expand existing facilities for two Primary
Teacher Training Colleges (ENIs) and fellowships to improve the
quality of teacher training and prepare for the introduction of
new teaching methods and textbooks.
(d) Project Management:
(i) construction, furniture and equipment to upgrade existing
facilities for the Education Projects Directorate (PPE) and
specialist services, fellowships, and operating costs to
strengthen its capability for project implementation; and
(ii) specialist services to assist the Government in the preparation
of a possible third education project.
Vocational Training Institutes
2.03      As regards the overall number of skilled workers required, Guinea's
Vocational Training Institutes (IPSs) approximately meet present demands (para.
1.11). However, the specializations taught are not well adapted to the needs
of the modern sector and the quality of skills training is unsatisfactory.
This is due to a shortage of adequately trained teachers and an over-enrollment
of students in relation to training facilities, some of which are poorly
planned, underequipped and in need of repair or replacement.  On the physical
side, the project would therefore emphasize the refurbishing and equipping of
existing facilities, including the financing of consumable materials and
energy supplies over a two-year period, and the construction of a limited
number of complementary buildings at the IPSs in Kankan, Labé and N'Zérékoré.
Pedagogically, the project aims at improving the quality of training and
changing the patterns of training to cover the skills expected to be in high
demand, such as those required for basic building trades and maintenance of
vehicles and other mechanical equipment. This would involve the suppression
of some existing training for which demand is negligible, such as mechanical
fabrication at the IPS in Labé, and expansion of new trades such as sheet
metal, welding, plumbing, electrical installation and automobile repair at the
IPS in N'Zérékoré. Total enrollment at the IPSs would be essentially unchanged
at about 700 students, permitting a total annual output of 280 skilled workers
divided among seven basic trades. The duration of training would be two years
for general masonry, plumbing, and electrical installations, and three years
for joinery, sheet metal and welding, auto mechanics, and reinforced concrete
construction. The curriculum would be modernized with the assistance of
the Technical Instructor Training Institute (ISFORPET) staff and be very
practically oriented with 20 to 24 hours of workshop practice per week.



- 14 -
2.04      The 55 teachers needed for the three institutes would be trained or
upgraded by the ISFORPET in Conakry, established under the First Education
Project. Curriculum development and equipment standardization for the IPSs
would be supported through continued technical assistance to ISFORPET (para.
2.05). The project would finance 21 manmonths of fellowships to enable IPS
directors and workshop training supervisors to study skilled worker training
systems and methodology in other countries. During negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that before December 31, 1983, it will establish condi-
tions of admission and duration of training for the IPSs acceptable to IDA,
and by the school year 1985-86 it will introduce new curricula acceptable
to the Association for the relevant specializations at the IPSs.
Technical Instructor Training Institute
2.05      This institute (ISFORPET) was financed under the First Education
Project and became fully operational during the final m3nths of 1980. The
project would finance limited supplementary equipment and consumable materials
to make practical skills training more effective in certain sections, notably
in diesel engine maintenance. The project would also finance 17 manyears of
specialist services over three years and 105 manmonths of fellowships. The
specialist support would allow a further consolidation of ISFORPET's technical
teacher training program and provide support for the improvement of secondary
vocational institutes country-wide, including the evaluation and revision of
training programs and the preparation of training materials (para. 2.04). The
fellowships would be provided to train Guinean teacher trainers and instructors
specialized in equipment maintenance.
Central Supply Unit
2.06      A storage facility built on the ISFORPET site under the First Educa-
tion Project is used for the temporary storage of equipment and materials
for ISFORPET. The Government wishes to develop this facility into a Central
Supply Unit for the purchase, storage and distribution of equipment, tools,
spare parts and consumable materials for the country's vocational institute
system. The project would finance furniture and equipment, six manmonths of
specialist services for the organization of the service, and 10 manmonths
of fellowships for training the Guinean manager of the Central Supply Unit.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that by January 1, 1984,
it will establish the Central Supply Unit and define its organization and
functions, and starting January 1, 1984, provide it with adequate funds to
make it fully operational.
Educational and Human Resources Planning
2.07      Educational planning.  The project would assist in establishing,
within the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (M'ESRS), a
General Educational Planning Directorate (DGPE) to be shared with the Ministry
of Pre-University Education and Literacy and the Ministry of Technical Educa-
tion and Vocational Training (para. 1.16). This directorate, in collaboration
with the Education and Training Division (DEF) of the Ministry of Planning and



- 15 -
Statistics (MPS), would be the main instrument used in preparing the technical
details for restructuring the educational system. The DGPE staff and the
specialists working with them would, on the basis of the manpower study
described in para. 1.27, formulate detailed recommendations for implementing:
(a) the restructuring of the education system; (b) the control and guidance of
student flows; and (c) achievement of a better match between manpower needs
and educational outputs. The DGPE would also improve statistical data collec-
tion and regional planning by preparing and conducting training seminars on
educational statistics and planning for about 30 staff members of the regional
education offices. It would also undertake a vocational training development
study as well as a tracer study of the graduates of IPSs and agro-zootechnic
faculties. To these ends, the project would finance furniture, equipment,
operating costs, 30 manmonths of specialist services for education planning
and consultant services for the review of higher education statistics and
technical education development, for a tracer study and for local training,
and 50 manmonths of fellowships for educational planning training (school
mapping, statistics, costs and financing, and vocational training). During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will carry out under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA and submit to the Association for review:
(a) before June 30, 1985 the vocational training development study; and (b)
before June 30, 1986 the IPS and agro-zootechnic student tracer study. As a
condition of credit effectiveness, the Government should legally establish the
DGPE with an organization and staffing satisfactory to IDA.
2.08      Human resources planning.  The project would also assist in the
strengthening of the Education and Training Division (DEF) within the MPS.
This division, which is responsible for human resources planning as well as
for the preparation and control of the education sector plan, would play a
leading role in preparing the sectoral policy changes. On the basis of the
manpower study and in close collaboration with the DGPE and the General
Directorate of Labor within the Ministry of Labor, it would formulate recom-
mendations to the Government for: (a) matching the output of the restructured
education system more closely with manpower requirements of the economy;
(b) the implications of the sector plan on education and policy; and (c) the
revision of the compulsory employment policy for the graduates of vocational
training schools and universities. This division would also appraise and
follow up on the manpower components of all investment projects and contribute
to improved collection of manpower data. To these ends, the Division would be
strengthened and reorganized. The project would finance furniture, equipment,
and operating costs for the new equipment, 10 manmonths of specialist services
for manpower study follow-up, employment-related analysis of development
projects and manpower statistics, and 50 manmonths of fellowships for educa-
tional planning, manpower statistics and forecasting. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that before December 31, 1983, it will complete a
reorganization of the DEF satisfactory to IDA.
National Pedagogical Institute
2.09      The National Pedagogical Institute (IPN, para. 1.17) would be
responsible for developing primary education programs and producing primary
textbook manuscripts, either directly or through contracts with Guinean



- 16 -
authors. Toward this end, the Government signed a two year renewable agree-
ment with the French Government in October 1980 providing technical assistance
for the preparation of syllabi and textbook manuscripts for the French language
programs in primary and lower secondary schools. The Guinean Government has
also issued a decree setting authors' fees, and has drawn up lists of textbook
titles and teaching guides to be developed under the project.
2.10      The IPN would also be responsible for reviewing teacher training
programs and methods, as well as providing on-the-job training for the
pedagogical supervisors to enable them to introduce the new curricula and
explain the proposed use of the textbooks.
2.11      To ensure appropriate conditions for achieving these objectives,
the project would finance construction, furniture, equipment and operating
costs to upgrade and expand the IPN facilities. The project would also
finance 116 manmonths of specialist services for curriculum development,
teacher training, editing and production of textbooks and 132 manmonths of
fellowships to strengthen the Institute's capacity for curriculum development
and evaluation, textbook and manuscript preparation, teacher training curri-
culum and teaching methods improvement. The decree establishing the IPN
reorganization has been modified to specify its objectives and strengthen
its organization. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
will (a) prepare syllabi and textbook manuscripts for the French language
programs in primary schools within the National Pedagogical Institute and not
later than January 1, 1984, employ education specialists to assist it in such
preparation (para. 2.09); and (b) starting January 1, 1984, provide adequate
funds to cover the fees for the preparation of manuscripts by local authors
outside the IPN.
Production and Distribution of Primary School Textbooks
2.12      The Educational Printing Office (IDEC) was established in 1978 with
bilateral French financing. IDEC can print 245,000 books per year, but
operates at only 26% of its capacity. There are still practically no primary
education textbooks being produced, due to (a) the IPN's weak management
capacity and inexperience in the preparation of textbook manuscripts; (b) the
lack of IDEC autonomy, the result of the IDEC's establishment as part of the
distance learning institute, which has led to administrative difficulties; (c)
the lack of skilled printing staff, due to slow implementation of the training
program being provided for Guinean staff both abroad and on-the-job in Guinea;
and (d) equipment maintenance problems.
2.13      To alleviate these problems, the project would strengthen the tech-
nical and management capacities of the IDEC and would include construction,
furniture, equipment, consumable materials, specialist services, fellowships
and incremental operating costs. Specifically, the project would finance
(a) construction, furniture, and equipment to improve and expand the existing
print shop; (b) consumable materials for the printing of 1,218,000 textbooks
and teacher training guides during the life of the project; (c) 65 manmonths
of specialist services to tackle management and technical print shop problems
and to establish a textbook storage and distribution system; and (d) 40
manmonths of fellowships for overseas training of print shop staff in print



- 17 -
shop management, machine maintenance and printing techniques. During negotia-
tions, the Government gave assurances that (a) before January 1, 1984, it will
(a) grant a status of management autonomy to IDEC; and (b) starting January 1,
1984, provide it with adequate funds to make it fully operational.
2.14      The production cost for textbooks would be about Sylis 18 (US$0.78)
and the cost of a complete set of textbooks would range from Sylis 18 (US$0.78)
for Grade 1 to Sylis 90 (US$3.91) for the final grade. The textbooks would
be lent out to the students and would probably last for three years. The
lending fee for a complete set would be Sylis 10 (US$0.43) per year. However,
students would be charged about Sylis 40 (US$1.73) for each book lost.  The
lending fees would be collected from schools by the district Education Direc-
torate and sent through the regional Education Directorate to IDEC where they
would be used primarily for financing textbook transportation costs.
2.15      Textbooks would be distributed by the National Transportation
Company (COTRA) which is charged with the transportation of all goods in
Guinea from or to Conakry and within the regions from or to regional capitals.
COTRA has specifically allocated transportation capacities by region. The
cost of transportation would be financed from IDEC's budget. The textbooks
would be transported by COTRA from IDEC to the regional education directorates,
which would be responsible for storing the textbooks in their educational
materials storage units and would coordinate with COTRA their distribution to
the district educational directorates. The cost of this transportation would
be financed by regional budgets. Textbooks would be distributed from the
district educational directorates to the schools by existing local transpor-
tation.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
2.16      Primary enrollment and teacher projections show an increasing need
for new teachers from 610 annually between 1981 and 1986, to 810 between 1987
and 1991, and to 1,970 between 1992 and 1996. There are currently 13 Primary
Teacher Training Colleges (ENIs) with capacities ranging from 65 to 512
students and a total enrollment of 2,650. They have inadequate premises
without suitable equipment. The Government intends to consolidate the ENIs by
reducing their numbers, increasing their total capacities, providing them with
adequate facilities and equipment, and reviewing their levels of recruitment
and their training curricula, in order to increase their internal efficiency,
improve the quality of instruction and expand their outputs. The project
would assist the Government in taking a first step in this direction by
financing construction, furniture, equipment and incremental operating costs
for upgrading and extending existing facilities located in Labé and Kankan.
The enrollment for the two ENIs would be 720 with an output of about 230 per
year; the project would also finance 124 manmonths of fellowships to train the
staff of the two ENIs in methodology (general teaching, science, French),
class observation and evaluation, and to train support staff (laboratory
assistants and librarians). At the same time the Government would undertake a
study to plan the development of the teacher training system with the view to
assuring an adequate regional distribution and economical size of facilities.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the above study would be
undertaken and submitted to IDA for review by June 30, 1985.



- 18 -
2.17      To reduce expenditures on teachers' salaries, students in the
three-year courses at the ENIs would be recruited at the lower secondary level
rather than at the baccalaureate level as is presently the case. The teaching
program would be revised and would focus specifically on professional training,
with about 40% of the time devoted to pedagogical training and practice
teaching. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will establish, through a revision of the primary teachers training
colleges decree by December 31, 1984, the recruitment of students at the lower
secondary level and prepare teaching programs on this basis to be reviewed by
IDA by March 1, 1985 and to be implemented by October 1985.
2.18      Construction work on the Nasser Lower Secondary School in Labé
and its conversion into an ENI would begin only after the transfer of its
students to a neighboring secondary school. This is planned for the end of
the 1982-83 school year.
Project Management
2.19      The Project Unit, established to implement the First Education
Project, Cr. 849-GUI (which has performed satisfactorily), would be
reorganized and upgraded to the status of an Education Projects Directorate
(DPE) responsible for coordinating the implementation of the second project,
as well as all other externally financed education projects. The directorate,
to be headed by a full-time director, would be strengthened by an architect, a
general educator, a procurement specialist, and an accountant. The training
of three construction supervisors and an accountant will be financed from
remaining funds in Cr. 849-GUI. The project would finance construction for
the rehabilitation of the existing facilities, supplementary furniture and
equipment, incremental operating expenses during the implementation period,
87 manmonths of specialist support for project management and architectural
services and civil works supervision, and 24 manmonths of fellowships to
upgrade the DPE staff in accounting, procurement and management. The project
also includes a provision of US$364,000 to finance specialist services and
architectural fees for the preparation of a future education project. The
Government as a condition of credit effectiveness, should submit evidence that
it has legally established the DPE, with objectives and organization acceptable
to IDA. The DPE should be staffed with a director, an architect, a general
educator, a procurement specialist and an accountant.



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01       Taxes and import duties are not included in project cost calcula-
tions because the Government, in line with the usual policy for Bank-financed
projects, has confirmed that it will exempt the proposed project from all
taxes and duties. The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$30.20
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$24.44 million. The breakdown
of cost by project component is detailed in Annex 8 and summarized below.
% of
Project Item               Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
----Sylis million----   ----US$ million------
Vocational Training         46.7   230.0   276.7    2.03   10.00   12.03    49.1
Educational & Human
Resources Planning         1.9    17.2    19.1    0.08    0.75    0.83           3.4
Primary Education           42.7   191.4   234.1       1.86    8.32   10.18    41.5
Project Management           4.8    28.8    33.6    0.21    1.25    1.46           6.0
BASE COST                   96.1   467.4   563.5    4.18   20.32   24.50   100.0
Physical Contingencies      11.5    44.8    56.3    0.50    1.95    2.45    10.0
Price Contingencies         24.9    49.9    74.8    1.08    2.17    3.25    13.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(net of taxes)           132.5   562.1   694.6    5.76   24.44   30.20
3.02       The base cost estimates are for March 1983.  The civil works costs
are based on the preliminary designs reviewed in July 1982 and on unit costs
derived from construction contracts awarded in Guinea from 1979 to 1982
for comparable buildings. The average net-of-tax cost of construction for new
buildings would be US$750 per square meter; however, at all project-financed
institutions, most civil works are for the restoration and completion of
existing facilities. 1/ The high construction costs in Guinea stem from the
large share of construction materials and equipment which needs to be imported,
the high transport costs, unreliable supply of materials and commodities,
excessive demand in the limited local construction market, the absence of siz-
able local firms, shortages of qualified construction workers and the high
cost of foreign staff. The architectural and engineering fees estimate is
1/   For this reason, unit costs per student place are not a meaningful basis
for comparison.



- 20 -
based on the terms and conditions of the contract signed by the Government and
the consulting architects before appraisal (10% of the civil works contracts
amount). The furniture and equipment costs are based on lists prepared during
appraisal, and on unit costs derived from the first project or from current
costs in Guinea. The costs of specialist services and of fellowships are
based on recent recruitment experience of the Government and international
agencies. They are estimated at US$10,000 per manmonth, including salary,
allowances and overhead for expatriate specialists, 1/ and at US$23,000 per
year for fellowships. The incremental operating costs are based on consumable
materials estimates for supplementary equipment purchased under the project.
3.03       Estimated costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
Category                                                                 % of
of Expenditure        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
----Sylis million----   -----US$ million-----
Civil works            75.9   205.6   281.5    3.30    8.94   12.24          50.0
Architectural &
Engineering fees    -         29.9    29.9      -       1.30    1.30        5.3
Furniture               -       16.3    16.3      -       0.71    0.71        2.9
Equipment               -       78.2    78.2      -       3.40    3.40       13.9
Specialist services  11.5   104.2   115.7   0.50          4.53    5.03       20.5
Fellowships             -       30.4    30.4       -      1.32    1.32        5.4
Operating costs         8.7      2.8    11.5    0.38    0.12    0.50          2.0
BASE COST
net of taxes         96.1   467.4   563.5    4.18   20.32   24.50    100.0
Physical
contingencies        11.5    44.8    56.3    0.50    1.95    2.45          10.0
Price contingencies  24.9    49.9    74.8    1.08    2.17    3.25            13.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST
net of taxes        132.5   562.1   694.6    5.76   24.44   30.20
1/   No local specialists are expected to be financed under the project.



- 21 -
3.04      The project costs include allowances for unforeseen physical contin-
gencies equal to 15% of the estimated base costs for civil works (mostly
rehabilitation) and architectural and engineering fees, and 10% for furniture
and equipment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about 13.3% of
the base cost. The price contingency allowance has been estimated on the
basis of the following annual percentage increases for local and foreign
expenditures:
1983     1984    1985    1986-88
Local            il 1/    il        il        il
Foreign           8         7.5     7          6
1/ IMF, Guinea request for Stand-by arrangement
(November 10, 1982) EDS 82-207, Table 3, p. 7.
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$24.44 million
represents about 81% of the total net-of-tax project cost of US$30.20 million.
This component was calculated on the basis of 73% for civil works, 90% for
specialist services, and 100% for furniture, equipment, architectural and
engineering fees, and fellowships, and 24% for operating costs. Local
currency expenditures amount to US$5.76 million, or about 19% of the total
project cost.
Financing Plan
3.06      Although Guinea has considerable potential for development, its
economic performance has been below average by West African standards because
of weak and highly centralized economic management and emphasis on socio-
political objectives. This has led to an inability to generate enough foreign
exchange to meet import costs and debt needs and to balance the budget.
However, the Government is implementing significant changes in its sector
policies (para. 1.34) and the proposed project is providing assistance in this
respect. In view of the satisfactory implementation of the First Education
Project, the Governnent's positive response to our sector dialogue, the
substantial sectoral changes already undertaken (para 1.34), and the need to
alleviate the burden on the Government's capital budget of foreign and local
costs, external sources should finance 100% of the total foreign exchange and
about 40% of the local cost or about 89% of the total project cost or about
US$26.79 million.
3.07      The proposed IDA Credit of USS11.0 million would finance 45% of
the total foreign exchange costs, or 36% of the net-of-tax project costs.
The African Development Fund (AfDF) will provide a credit to finance project
items with a total estimated cost of US$11.72 million; the Saudi Fund for
Development (SF) would provide a grant to finance project items with a total
estimated cost of US$4.07 million. In addition, the SF would finance in



- 22 -
parallel, and for about US$2.93 million, architectural and engineering fees,
civil works, furniture and equipment for the Faranah IPS for which technical
and educational specifications will be prepared under the proposed IDA Credit.
The Government would finance local costs estimated at US$3.4 million. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Government should ensure that all conditions
have been satisfied that are necessary for an initial disbursement from the
AfDF Credit and the SF Grant. The financing plan is detailed in Annex 9 and
summarized below.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Total Cost  IDA   AfDF    SF   Government
Vocational Training                  12.03    1.23   7.73   1.68       1.39
Educational & Human Resources
Planning                           0.83    0.81    -        -        0.02
Primary Education                    10.18    5.93   1.53   1.52       1.20
Project Management                   1.46    1.22   0.18    -          0.06
TOTAL BASE COST                24.50    9.19   9.44   3.20        2.67
Physical Contingencies               2.45    0.64   0.99   0.43        0.39
Price Contingencies                  3.25    1.17   1.29   0.44        0.35
Total Contingencies             5.70    1.81   2.28   0.87        0.74
TOTAL                          30.20   11.00  11.72   4.07       3.41
3.08      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 10.20 million (US$11.0 million)
would finance 50% of the net-of-tax operating costs, 80% of the net-of-tax
costs for civil works expenditures, and 100% of the net-of-tax costs for
architectural and engineering fees, equipment, furniture, specialist services
and fellowships of the following items:
(a)  civil works for the National Pedagogical Institute, the Educational
Printing Office and the Education Projects Directorate - US$1.96
million;
(b)  architectural and engineering fees for the Vocational Training
Institutes, the National Pedagogical Institute, and the Primary
Teacher Training Colleges, and to initiate the architectural
studies of a possible third education project - TJS$1.30 million;



- 23 -
(c) furniture and equipment (including consumable materials for IDEC)
for the Central Supply Unit, the National Pedagogical Institute, the
Educational Printing Office (IDEC), the General Educational Planning
Directorate, the MPS Education and Training Division, and equipment
(including consumable materials) for the Technical Instructor
Training Institute - US$1.49 million;
(d)  314 manmonths (about 26 manyears) of specialist services and 430
manmonths (about 36 manyears) of fellowships for the Central Supply
Unit, the National Pedagogical Institute, the Educational Printing
Office, the Primary Teacher Training Colleges (fellowships only),
the General Educational Planning Directorate, the MPS Education and
Training Division, and the Education Projects Directorate, as well
as 12 manmonths of specialist services for the preparation of a
possible third education project - US$4.18 million;
(e) incremental operating costs for the Vocational Training Institutes,
the National Pedagogical Institute, the Educational Printing Office,
the Primary Teacher Training Colleges, the General Educational
Planning Directorate, the MPS Education and Training Division, and
the Education Projects Directorate - US$0.26 million; and
(f) allowances for physical contingencies and price escalation for
items (a) through (e) - US$1.81 million.
3.09      The AfDF is expected to finance 80% of the net-of-tax cost of civil
works and 100% of the net-of-tax costs of furniture, equipment, specialist
services and fellowships for the following items:
(a) civil works, furniture, equipment (including consumable materials
for the IPSs) for the Labé and N'Zérékoré Vocational Training
Institutes (IPSs), the Labé Primary Teacher Training College, and
furniture and equipment for the Education Projects Directorate -
US$7.27 million;
(b)  204 manmonths (17 manyears) of specialist services and 126
manmonths (about 10 manyears) of fellowships for the Vocational
Training Institutes (fellowships only) and the Technical Instructor
Training Institute - US$2.17 million;
(c) allowances for physical contingencies and price escalation for
items (a) and (b) - US$2.28 million.
3.10      The SF is expected to finance 80% of the net-of-tax costs of civil
works and 100% of the net-of-tax costs of furniture and equipment for the
following items:
(a) civil works, furniture and equipment (including consumable materials
for the IPS) for the Kankan Vocational Training Institute (IPS) and
Primary Teacher Training College - US$3.20 million; and



- 24 -
(b) allowances for physical contingencies and price escalation for
item (a) US$0.87 million.
Project Recurrent Cost
3.11      The table below shows the incremental recurrent expenditures we
expect each component to generate during project implementation.
(USS March 1983)
Annual      Building
Annual      Incremental      and        Total Annual
Incremental   Operating    Equipment    Incremental
Project Component            Staff Cost        Cost      Maintenance        Cost
Vocational training            74,075        141,522        174,465        390,062
Educational and human          71,820          6,030            470         78,320
resources planning
Primary education             165,880        111,948         86,330        364,158
improvement
Education projects             30,630         17,780          3,060         51,470
directorate
342,405        277,280       264,325        884,010
Government Budget for
recurrent expenditure
on education (1981)           64,756,600
3.12       By the end of the project (1988), the total incremental cost in the
Government budget would increase by about Sylis 20.32 million (US$883,480), of
which Sylis 7.87 million (US$342,170) would be for staff salaries and related
benefits, Sylis 6.37 million (US$276,960) for operating costs, and Sylis 6.08
million (US$264,350) for building and equipment maintenance, representing
1.36% of the Government's projected recurrent budget in education. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it will make
adequate budgetary provisions for the staffing, the operation and maintenance
of all project-assisted institutions, including the allocation of foreign
exchange to purchase imported materials and supplies after the project
financing ends. In addition the Government gave assurances that it will
provide adequate funding and set appropriate procedures to maintain the
existing facilities of the education sector.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Educational specifications for all the project institutions were
prepared by the Government prior to project appraisal, with assistance from
the Unesco/World Bank Cooperative Program, and were reviewed during pre-
appraisal and appraisal with senior officials concerned, including those
expected to be designated as sub-project directors. Drafts of all the pro-
posed decrees were reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable. Working
papers are available for each project component. Architectural sketch and
preliminary designs for all project components except the Education Projects
Directorate and the Educational Printing Office (handled by the Education
Project Unit architect and civil engineer), were prepared with funds available
under the First Education Project (US$196,000) and have been reviewed by IDA.
The expatriate specialists assigned to the Technical Instructor Training
Institute financed under the First Education Project have prepared draft
equipment lists for the vocational training component. We expect that these
lists will be finalized and that tendering will start by mid-1983. To allow
the Government to continue project preparation until credit effectiveness
(including final architectural design work, 1/ local staff training and the
preparation of equipment lists and bidding documents), an advance of US$700,000
from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been approved. The final
architectural designs are being reviewed and tendering would start by mid-1983.
Construction of buildings and installation of equipment are expected to be
completed by the end of 1985. Recruitment of specialists and identification
of fellowship holders has started.  Provision of specialist services and local
staff training are expected to continue until June 1988, when the entire
project is expected to be completed.  The Closing Date would beDecember 31,
1988, to allow for all project accounts to be closed.
Project Management
4.02      A Project Unit was established to implement the First Education
Project (Cr. 849-GUI) within the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research. This unit will be reorganized and upgraded to the status of an
Education Projects Directorate (DPE), and will coordinate the implementation
of the second project and other externally financed education projects (para.
2.19). The DPE would remain within the same ministry and be headed by the
current Project Unit Director. The project includes funds to rehabilitate the
Project Unit's offices for the DPE.
1/   Architectural design work has been contracted to a French architectural
firm established in Dakar, Senegal.



- 26 -
4.03      The Ministries of Planning and Statistics (MPS), Higher Education
and Scientific Research (MESRS), Technical Education and Vocational Training
(METMFP), and Pre-University Education and Literacy (MEPU) would designate
senior officials to serve as sub-project directors for the components under
their responsibility. For the component under his control, each sub-project
director would be responsibl'e for (a) determining the design for the educa-
tional programs and their implications on the specifications of buildings
and equipment; (b) selecting and supervising specialists and planning their
work; (c) determining training programs for Guinean staff and selection of
candidates for local and foreign training; and (d) preparing reports on the
implementation progress. Responsibility for accounting and procurement of
civil works and goods would be centralized in the DPE. The DPE would also
(a) coordinate project implementation at the national level; (b) serve as
liaison between the sub-project directors and the external financing agencies;
(c) monitor project implementation to ascertain compliance with the Credit
Agreement and other project documents; and (d) be responsible for financial
management and maintenance of project accounts. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government should submit evidence that the subproject
directors have been officially designated.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.04      The project would finance about 43 manyears of specialist services
(Annex 10). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of specialists financed under the project would be acceptable to IDA;
(b) services of international staff would be procured in accordance with IDA's
guidelines; and (c) qualified local staff acceptable to IDA would be appointed
as counterparts to the expatriate specialists financed under the project.
4.05      The project would provide financing for about 46 manyears of fellow-
ships for the training of Guinean staff outside Guinea (Annex 11) and one
manyear of expatriate specialist services for local training. During negotia-
tions the Government gave assurances that it will (a) award the fellowships to
be financed under the proposed IDA Credit to suitably qualified persons for
training programs acceptable to the Association; (b) require the fellowship
holders to serve at least four years in the positions for which they were
trained; and (c) review with IDA the design of the local training programs for
primary school inspectors and regional educational planning staff.
Sites
4.06       Sites, already owned by the Government and acceptable to IDA, have
been selected for all the project institutions.
Procurement
4.07      Works.  Major civil works to be financed under the proposed IDA
Credit, totalling US$2.5 million (including contingencies), would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines;
eligible domestic bidders would be given a preference of 7-1/2%. The balance



- 27 -
of construction to be financed under the proposed IDA Credit, totalling USS0.6
million (including contingencies), consists of minor works and buildings too
small to interest foreign bidders. These works would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures which IDA found to be satisfactory at
appraisal.
4.08      Goods.  Equipment, consumable materials and furniture to be financed
under the proposed IDA Credit, totalling US$1.9 million (including contingen-
cies), would be grouped into appropriate bidding packages and procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower.  Miscellaneous equipment items,
consumable materials and furniture in packages of less than US$100,000 would
be procured under local competitive procedures which IDA found to be satis-
factory at appraisal. Items below US$30,000 in value, for which potential
suppliers are limited, might be procured by inviting quotations from at least
three reliable suppliers whenever possible. The total value of items procured
by both these methods would not exceed US$500,000.
4.09      Contract Review.  Three bidding packages are expected to make up the
estimated US$3.1 million for the civil works to be financed under the proposed
IDA Credit. With a threshold of US$500,000 for prior IDA review of procurement
documentation, two of the three packages would cover about 97% of the value
contracted. All bidding packages for goods valued at more than US$100,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of the procurement docu-
mentation, resulting in a coverage of about 80% of the goods contracts. The
balance of the contracts would be subject to random post-review by IDA after
contract award.
4.10      Co-financed contracts.  Civil works, goods and services financed by
other agencies would be procured in accordance with the relevant guidelines
of these agencies.
Disbursements
4.11      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against the project
items indicated in para. 3.08, as follows:
(a) 80% of total expenditures for civil works - US$1.96 million;
(b) 100% of total expenditures for architectural and engineering
fees - US$1.30 million;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for furniture, and equipment (including
consumable materials)-USSl.49 million;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for specialist services and
fellowships - US$4.18 million;
(e) 50% of total expenditures for incremental operating costs -
US$0.26 million;



- 28 -
(f)  100% of the withdrawn PPF funds - USS700,000;
(g) initial disbursement for the special account - USSq0,000; and
(h) US$1.05 million would remain unallocated.
4.12       Disbursements (Annex 13) have been estimated on the basis of the
schedule of implementation summarized in Annex 12. While the disbursement
profile takes account of the standard disbursement profile Df education
projects in West Africa, it has been shortened considerably to take account
of the disbursement experience with the First Education Project in Guinea
(Cr. 849-GUI) and the relatively advanced stage of project preparation (para.
4.01).
4.13      All disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully documented
except for operating costs under category (e), which would be disbursed
against certified statements of expenditure, with the documentation not to
be submitted to IDA but held by the Education Projects Directorate (DPE) for
review by IDA supervision missions. The total amount of disbursements against
statements of expenditures is estimated at US$0.26 million, representing about
0.02% of the credit amount. These expenditures would be in local currency and
disbursement would be made only to reimburse the Government. Disbursement
against certified statements of expenditure is the only reasonable method to
disburse against category (e), since the DPE's operating costs would consist
of numerous, small expenditures. Details of the procedure to be followed in
respect of the statements of expenditures can be found in Annex 14.
Special Account
4.14      Because the Government may have difficulty in pre-financing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, a special account of US$60,000
financed by the IDA Credit would be established for the purchase of small
items such as office equipment and supplies, and spare parts for vehicles and
operating costs of the project eligible for financing by the IDA Credit. The
Government would open an account for this purpose in a local commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. The account would be operated under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, and IDA would replenish the account on receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the special account for allowable expenditures. Should
any payments be made from the special account that are not acceptable to IDA,
the Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the corres-
ponding amount. In addition to the special account, the Government would
establish in a local commercial bank acceptable to IDA a revolving account in
local currency of about Sylis 3.5 million for financing the local contribution
to the project. This account would be replenished quarterly from the Govern-
ment's budget. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government should
submit evidence that (a) a special account and a revolving account have been
established; and (b) Sylis 3.5 million has been deposited in the revolving
account.



- 29 -
Accounts and Audits
4.15      During the First Education Project (Cr. 849-GUI), the Project Unit
set up a suitable accounting system, in accordance with accepted accounting
practices to record all project expenditures. All accounts have been subject
to regular Government auditing by finance inspectors and the audit document
was acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that separate accounts would be set up for the proposed project, that the
accounting and auditing system would be used again for the proposed project,
and that the accounts and audit report would be submitted to IDA no later than
six months following the close of each fiscal year. The accounts and the
audit would be of such a scope and in such detail as IDA should reasonably
request, including a review of the operation of the special account and the
revolving fund account and a separate opinion on whether the expenditures
withdrawn from the IDA Credit on the basis of statements of expenditures have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01      The main benefits of the vocational training component would be
the impact that it will have on economic development through the provision of
appropriate specialization and quality of urgently needed skilled workers
by (a) consolidating the technical teacher training program started under the
First Education Project (para. 2.05); (b) improving the relevance of the
vocational training institutes curricula to job needs; and (c) increasing the
availability of equipment, consumable materials and spare parts, especially
for the project's vocational schools (para. 2.06).
5.02      The strengthening of educational and human resources planning would
provide the administrative and technical conditions for (a) the restructuring
of the education system; (b) the definition of realistic educational develop-
ment targets; (c) the reallocation of resources; (d) the control and guidance
of student flows; and (e) the revision of the compulsory employment policy
for vocational training and university graduates (paras. 2.07 and 2.08).
5.03      The primary education component will have both medium-term and
long-term benefits. In the medium term, improvement of primary teacher
training and the availability of textbooks would improve learning conditions
and therefore the efficiency of primary education. In the long term, the
improvement of learning conditions in primary education, as well as the
strengthening of the technical capacity of the IPN, would constitute a basis
for further improvement of secondary education.



- 30 -
Risks
5.04      The project faces two risks.  First, there is a risk that the
Government may not be able to effectively manage the construction of the
dispersed civil works proposed for financing under the project. This risk is
increased by the fact that most of the construction represents the first Bank
Group-financed civil works in the education sector to be implemented outside
Conakry, the capital. This issue is being addressed through the financing,
under the First Education Project (Cr. 849-GUI), of fellowships to train
Guinean site supervisors prior to the start of construction and by providing
in the proposed project specialist services to strengthen the civil works
management and supervision capacity of the Education Projects Directorate.
Second, there is a risk that the country's limited experience in textbook
preparation may lead to delays in preparing, printing and distributing the
primary school textbooks. This issue will be addressed by financing fellow-
ships to train Guinean specialists prior to the start of implementation and
providing technical assistance to back up the Guinean staff.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(a)  prepare a program for the implementation of the policy recommenda-
tions of the sector review report and the manpower study including
enrollment targets and a schedule for accomplishing specific objec-
tives, discuss this program with IDA prior to June 30, 1984 and at
regular intervals review implementation progress with the Associa-
tion (para. 1.29);
(b) establish before December 31, 1983 conditions of admission and
duration of training for the IPSs acceptable to IDA and by the
school year 1985-86, introduce new curricula acceptable to the
Association for relevant specializations at the IPSs (para. 2.04);
(c) by January 1, 1984 establish the Central Supply Unit and define its
organization and functioning, and starting January 1, 1984, provide
it with adequate funds to make it fully operational (para. 2.06);
(d) carry out under terms of reference acceptable to IDA and submit to
the Association for review (i) before June 30, 1985, the vocational
training development study, and (ii) before June 30, 1986, the IPS
and agro-zootechnic student tracer study (para. 2.07);
(e) complete before December 31, 1983, a reorganization of the Educa-
tion and Training Division of the Ministry of Planning and Statistics
satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.08);



- 31 -
(f) prepare syllabi and textbook manuscripts for the French language
programs in primary schools within the National Pedagogical
Institute and, by January 1, 1984, employ education specialists to
assist it in such preparation; and starting January 1, 1984 provide
it with adequate funds to cover the fees for the preparation of
textbook manuscripts by local authors outside IPN (para. 2.11);
(g) grant a status of management autonomy to the Educational Printing
Office before January 1, 1984 and starting in Fiscal Year 1984,
provide it with adequate funds, to make it fully operational
(para. 2.13);
(h) undertake a study to plan the development of the teacher training
system and submit it to IDA for review by June 30, 1985 (para. 2.16);
(i) establish, through a revision of the primary teacher training
colleges decree, by December 31, 1984, the recruitment of students
at the lower secondary level and prepare teaching programs on this
basis to be reviewed by IDA by March 1, 1985 and implemented by
October 1985 (para. 2.17);
(j) make adequate budgetary provisions for the staffing, operation
and maintenance of all project-assisted institutions, including
the allocation of foreign exchange to purchase imported materials
and supplies after the project financing ends; and provide adequate
funding and set appropriate procedures to maintain the existing
facilities of the education sector (para. 3.12);
(k) employ specialists under the project with qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to IDA and re-
cruited in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and appoint qualified
local counterparts to the expatriate specialists (para. 4.04);
(1)  ensure that the fellowships to be financed under the proposed IDA
Credit are awarded to suitably qualified persons for training
programs satisfactory to IDA, and that the fellowship holders will
serve at least four years in the positions for which they were
trained (para. 4.05);
(m) review with IDA the design of local training programs for primary
school inspectors and regional educational planning staff (para.
4.05);
(n) set up a separate account for the proposed project and submit
project accounts and audit reports to IDA not later than six months
following the close of each fiscal year (para. 4.15).



- 32 -
6.02      As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government should submit
evidence that: (a) all conditions have been satisfied which are necessary for
an initial disbursement from the AfDF Credit and SF Grant (para. 3.07); (b) it
has legally established the General Educational Planning Directorate (para.
2.07); (c) it has legally established the Education Projects Directorate with
objectives and organization acceptable to IDA and staffed with a director, an
architect, a general educator, a procurement specialist, and an accountant,
and nominated the sub-project directors (paras. 2.19 and 4.03); and (d) a
special account and a revolving account have been established in a local
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and that Sylis
3,500,000 has been deposited in the revolving account (para. 4.14).
6.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of US$11.0 million to the
Republic of Guinea.



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
4th CYCLE
1st CYCLE              2nd CYCLE             3rd CYCLE                   1st LEVEL               2nd LEVEL
t-      -~~~-0
7  8  9  10 11 12           13 14 15          16 17         18                r192021              22 23         24
TEACHER TRAINING
ENI                          ISFORPET     
NATURAL SCIENCES
I   NATURAL SCIENCES            PRACTICUM            I    SOCIAL SCIENCES
I SOCIAL SCIENCES                                 J       EHNLG
-    PRACTICUM        TECHNOLOGY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
r--i      GEOLOGY-MINING
||||6{ J  MEDICINE PHARMACOLOGY L
THESIS      ADMINISTRATIVE SCIENCES
HEALTH SEIVICES      TECHNOLOGY                                               AGRO-ZOOTECHNICS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
MEDICINE-PHARMACOLOGY
*   EXAMINATIONS                             COMMERCIAL            ADMINISTRATIVE SCIENCES
*   ENTRANCE EXAMS                             SCHOOL              AGRO-ZOOTECHNICS
Q  STATE DIPLOMA
O  DEFENSE OF GRADUATE THESIS
SECONDARYVOCATIONAL                             PRACTICUM
ENI TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES                   INSTITUTES
ISFORPET  TECHNICAL INSTRUCTOR TRAINING
INSTITUTE
SCHOOL FOR 
POLICE                                                                                                         2
SOURCE MESRS
Worîd Bank-23960



00.          O            11,      O   00.  O   0  000           00.   O  0   0    0,   O
0000001  00.0.0.00,00 .1100  O  .0.00.000 00000000000  0.-.
00000000000000000  O 0.40000   000000   OOOOr.000000   0  00011.400 00000000  000 Oc
00...      000000.-1.-1000.-.00 00010 .00 0000.-..4 00001 100000000000011000000,1 0000000O I 000100
<0 ... 00.-o00 I 0' I - ooo...o10 - 10
<1- O .-'        o                                -   <.0                       oo       oo
2
4.            .00.00.000,00       0000      I .0.0      I .0   O                v000000:0
0.01 000.000..110 I 0000000   00.0 000001.000.100.000000010
1-1tt
t                                    <t               o  <.00.         0.0.       0,  0  000
0*           011  1<  >1>        01<1.0 .0  O      0111.0.0  11< 1<  O 0.0.0    000.0  .01 .00.0110  .0.0  .0.0
O     0    000000<  00,000. 0.0000010000010.00   .-.0101100.000 .0 0.000000.-.00000000 10.000.000.000000-40
000oO 0    00.00. 0000.-1.-'o.0I.400000 I I I 00.000   .00.l0   000000000100000000000 .11.00
OC  0  O       O      O     I       1.0    11.0    O  I  I    I                O  1>1    I  I  100  11<   I I
000,.00 .0   000000   000.01 .400000 10000.0.40.0  001 10101 00.0<0c 10000000.1.0 I 1001.000100.0.010.000.1 I
O 0... .. oo o...
O O <. O
1-1-.   000    0*                                            O
010    00.0   1<                                    10     O    .11  O  0  O    O    0          O        0.
000.0011. .-'   0. 000.  000  00.000.000000   0.0  Oa      0 000 00   000       O 0 .00  O    0000  .0.000
01<01.00 O    1.1.*.                                                                   .  .
O <00 O    10.1 0.-.0.  00.1110000000 0.00.01100  0.01 Il 1010.001001 1000   I 10101.001 10 I 100001.40001 I
00000'.. .-    1.01.0              .4.010  .011.00  .4.0111 l0I000I00I 1000   11.01111.0,11.0.4   1.0  .011
O   .0   1.0   O  O  01<   00.0.0  O   O 10   .0.0  0000  0  I    0.0   0  0.0  .0
10.00  000o0.000000 1000.0.000.0.   .00000000000000,00000000000001.0000.0.40000000.4<>
.40                                                                                 I    Il  Il  O    I    I  I
1-011.          O           I   I     I   I  11     O    I   I   11111    I  I  O    I   I   I  0    Il
0000  .-. 0    000000   0001 1.4000001 100.0.0000  001 I 110100010.01 I 100   000110001101100000100... I I
11>       .4 <000 0    0.000.00  00.01 1000000 I 1.000.00000011110.10001.001 I I 00000Ill00 0.1.0110000010001 I
O     000                 <t    t    0.  <.            tttoo              01<
0.0         001<   O    011    0   O 1.00.0.000    01011.0.0    O   1.00 O     011.110  0  0.00 .0  0.0   .0.0
O          0.00.000.000.000000001.0.00 000000010 I 10 o00000010000   000000000I000000000000000
001-0 O    000.0.00.  0.0000000.00010000.00.0 0.40 101100000000l0000   0.0 000,00.4 I 000000000000000
t  .0          0
.0      00000  .0 I        O 01.0 00  0.0
00.         10.0.0.0. 0.00I00000000 10000.0000  O Il  I 1.0 I 0  O  I O  I  0.00  10        110   0.0
000100, O    10.00<0 000I.00000000100000.4000II0 I 1010000001000.1   Oooo.0î.0c.0o.0o I I 00000000040
000..,.4 0                                       ol lOi I 01000.00  1I,-0 I  000.001000.00.0 I I 0.0000000000
10    I       0        0     .0       O   I  1111<  Il>  Id  0   I  111  11  0    I  I  I  I  Il  O  I  I  I
000       101000   000.00000,.00.. .000000   001 111.01000000101.40   0.4.0101.001 1.00 11000010000 I I
000   lOI..01111 100000 10100.00.01.01001 I.-.0 Il 4,0.01.40001 I
01-00        11.
00000       11<1        O           O     O        1111111110   O 111  10    O 1<111   Il  Il Il  10   Il
0001-0 0,   1010.00   0.00.00000.00000 0.000000  .00 I I I 1010000001010.0   0001 I 1001 I ...0 I 10,000100001 I
O           000<0 O    lOI 00.400000000.0000.4000000000 I I I 1010 OooooIOîo.4000 I Il 1.101 10  Il 0001,0.00 I
0000.0      10  I                   0     0        O liii  10   O   O          O  I   I  I I  Il    O  0  I I
00000       101000   .01*000.0.0000.000.0.0000.00  001 111.01000000 I0I<.4  «100101001 100 I 100001001001 I
000<0       lOI 000000.0000000.000.000000000 I 111,111 00000010100   00010100 I 10011.0.0001000.41 I
000011100       O                                      O 0           0     0,                O 0,0>,    0  O
00<0000        01<           110             O        0000000    O 111  00.1>    011 O    0 00000  0.0.0  0.00
0000Z0 O    0000000000000000000000.0.40   00000000  0.000.0.00000   0.000000000000000100000,0000
t zoo .4<0     000.000   O 0.0000000000010000,l0.00000 00,0100.0000.0000.   0000.         0.000100000.4.40.1000
00000<00
000                                               O>tO>  0      0    O>     t0 0       00,0>0
O>   0
0      011  O    0.0> 0>0>      O O  >0    >011000000   O 110 0110    01< 0    0,0011000  0.00 O 0,
1-00 0    0000.00000000.0000000000. I 00.000000000.00.0000.00000000.400000.40000000000.1.000.-,
000 ..  01401400.  .00000000000000001000   000000000000000,000000000000 000000000000.-,0-.t00
O  O    O    O   0.  .0.0.0.00  00.0.0  O     0.0   0.0               0.0             .0
O          0000,00   00000000000000000000   0000000000000000000   0000000010000000000000000
0.0 4'     0000.00   000000.0000.000000000000.000000000000.0000 0.000000 00100000000 00000000
11.1-o.0. 4.   00000000000000000000001000000000000000000000000000000 0.10.0.00000.40.40.00000
0000. 4   00.0000              O .0                   O    -              000.0000000    0.0000000
0<00         .00 .4                                                       O
00......                                                                 .0
.00  O    O O O    0000  O  O 0.0  O             O 0.0         O       0.0  O    0    .00
000000   0000000000000000000000000000000.00000000  00000,000000000000000000000
Oit... .  0.40.0000  0000o040000,
0000000000000000 00000.0.000,0000000000000000.4.0000000.40.00.40
000 O    00.00           0.0      00000                 O        O      .00   0.40             o    o  o
000 .4                                                                  .0    o
0.4                                                                    o
0.0                                                                     O
.00       000.0.00  000000.00000000000000   0.00.000000.0000000000 000.0000000000000000000.0000
<0      0000000   0000000000000000000 O  0001400000 0000000000  00000000000000000000000000
01-     O
O                                                               O
t         t                          t                                                       t
O   .     .0                                                   .0
O  000    O                          O            1-       t   0  O        t   O           1-
.00   0         -.               0                     o c o          o   
0<    O   .0    .0                   .0           t   t    O   O   0<     O    O       .0
00    O    .0  0<     t      t<    I   O          O  O    O O 00 o    .00 t Oit
00.0000 00 O .4<           O O          0< .0           .00.0  0.0 000.0   .0 t t toc
t                    .0  0.   00
oo.oooo 0<00<1110 t 0< .00 O 0.    < < O 1- 0         0< .00 O  0000<0 00<.00 0<0
O O 1-0000000<<000$ 000 0.0 000.0000000000000000 .00<000 00.00 00<0000< <0000
1000&001.I0000.400000000000000 <>. 00>. 00000000000000, 00000 ,,00000 .0 0.0 00000000
o           z                   0                   O 0<
El0. tO.0
0:.,Âî,îc0 <01300l00O.0SO0OI4O0OO  -, ,  .   000 t 000000 t  <             <0   O  0000
-=e.4v..4'.ro:.' 00.-c,1.:0,10000.000,tî-.4.40.< 4013.4.40100000011 .00001,13<000019 >11.,130131313000'10000000



- 35                                                                  R ANNEX 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
FEBRUARY 17, 1983
CCENTRAL
GO VTERNOMENT
EXPENDITURE                                       COMPLETION             RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  ECUCATION        ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                 UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY                HIGICER
CNP PER               AS PERCENT    RECURREIIT        LITERACY ENPOLL. PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CARITA  PERCENT CNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE             RATIO   SCBOOL        STUDEXTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO          STUDENTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNtMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (2)    (NET)   CYCLE                PFR       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)         PER        (CROSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  HI   (1976)    (Z)               (Z)      TEACHER  CNF/CAPITA        (1)         (21)    TEACHER      (Z)
_ 1)        (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)           (6)       (7)       (8)        (9)         (10)         (11)        (12)        (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND TIIE PACIFIC
CHINA               79   981.8       260      3.3          6.6        29   34   27        66        93        64         27         8.0           83          47        i9        2.80
INDONESIA           81   142.9       370     3.0           9.1E.      66   39   ---    32b          94a       68         34         1.4          44           233       :6        2.00*
KOREA               82    39,3b  1636b    7.7*            20.8        34   34   31        96        99        98         43        19.0           98          84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA            80    14.2b  1,460b    5.2            22.0        39   32   13        6Sb       96X       94         28        ---            84          65        27        3.70
PAPUA N.G.          79      2.9      760      5.4*        16.4       ---  ---  ---    ---          58*       73         31         1.1           ---         64b6      23       ---
PHILIPPINES         79    48.3b    69Ob    2.85           14.0        64   36-**---    75b          84        65         31         7.1           89          55        36       21.00
SINGAPORE           80      2.4   4,420       2.7          6.7        39   40   16       83        92         82         31         8.8           96          55        22        8.OC
SOLOMON ISL.        80      0.2    `460      4.2P'        10.0*       41   34   20       ---       60         80         26        ---            35          18        ---      ---
TbAILAND            80    47.3b    723b    3.4            20.9        59   15   13       86b        96        ---        17         9.3           59          58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH          79    93.3b       90      1.1P        lI.Ray      51   17   20       22b       63Y        ---        53         5.6          ---          14        23        1.43
INDIA               77   659.6       210     2.9Y          99*7       ---  ---  -- _     36         79*       ---        41        ---           ---          283       ---       8.30aY
NEPAL               80    14.3b    140b    2.4             9.9        27   18   36       19        88g        30         38a       ---           64           14**      20&       2.08*Y
PAKISTAN            79    79.7       270      2.O'Y        5.1Y       39   26   27       24         56*       80*        48         6.5           51          20*       17        6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTB AFRICA
AFRGANISTAN         /7    15.5       ___      1.7          3.7        47   19   15       12        31by       69         37b       ---           62            8        22bY      1.00Y
ALGERIA             79    18.3   1,770        3.Sg        12.3        34a  26a  21*    35          83Y        45a        37         7.0?          55a         29Y       26        3.70Y
EGYPT               81    43.0b    58ob    3,1*W           4.5        31*  353  26*    44          84*        80*        34         9.8*          83*         43        19       15.00*
GREECE              76      9.3   4,140       2,6W        10.6b       37   26   21        ---      97by       3--        29b        6.2?         ---          79b4      27by    17.80bY
IRAN                79    36.9      ___      5,7*Y        14.1*Y      ---  ---  ---    50         101a'       ---        32a       ---            ---         44**      24a       4.90*Y
IRAQ                79    12.6   2,710       4.3*y         6,g9y      ---  ---  ---    ---        IoOY       ---         28        ---            ---         45*Y      29*       9.30*Y
IRELAND             81      3,4b  4 480      6.3*Y        11.8aY      ---  ---  ---    98          93        94          29        ---           98           81        14       11.00
JORDAN              81      2.2b  1,420b    4.9'          10.2        19   44   18       70b      1089       85          32         7.2          91           82*       25       19.00
LEBANON             79      2.3      ---     ---          18.6*Y ---  ---  ---    ---             96*        ---        19        ---            ---         46*       ---      27.80*Y
MOROCCO             80    19.5       740      6.3*W       17.5*       36   44   20       28        56*Y       35         39        19.7          40           253       21        4.50
OMAN                79      0.9   3,530      3.7awy        4.9*Y      ---  ---  ---    ---         45*Y       ---        233       ---            ---          7*        9       ---
PORTUGAL            79      9.8b  2,060      3.6          22.2        50   28   11       78        97         20         19*       12.8          88*          45*       17*       8.30(
ROMANIA             78    22.1   2,100        3,9by        6.2Y 3       --  ---  ---    98        106b4      ---         23b       ---           98           84b6      22b      10.60by
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y         16.8Y       ---  ---  ---    -           98bY      ---         29b       ---           ---          67bY      ---      24.1Rby
SYRIA               78      8.6   1,170      4.4P         10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80          33b       ---           68           41by      2Rb      12.80
TUNISIA             79      6.4   1,130      7.OP         19.0        42   39   18       62b      1oo0       80          39b       12.8          30           30*       30        6.00
TURKEY              79      4.3   1,380      3.6a, y      18.6        ---  ---  ---    60         10Sx        ---        30a                      ---         41-       27        7.07*Y
YEMEN A.R.          80      6.8      420     5.0PF        12.0        94    7    7       23b       37         123        38Y       67.0          85            3        20        1.10
YEMEN PRD.R.        80      1.9      424     6.0          10.5        63   14    8       40b       65        53          24        22.4          81           22        16        2.50
SYMBOLS:                                                             FOOTNOTLS:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                                 A = DATUS PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
...  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                       B = DATUM MORE RECENT TRAN RASE YEAP
?  DATEM QUESTIONABLE                                                N = CURRENT PRICES
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                       P = CDP
**  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                                             Q = INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
...  COMBINED WITE HIG8ER                                              R   CENTRAL GOVERtMENT OtLY
S = MINISTRY OF EDIICATION (MOE) ONLY
T = MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
W = PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X =INCLODES OVER-AGE STU'FENTS
Y = UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Columns I and 2:  World BRnk Atlas  *r IBRD missions.
Cel.n*.  3 to 14:  IBRD missions, Government sources  -edIr Uneco Statistitcal Yer.book.
Comparative Ed-catioe  Data are  useful Or *   evaluation ef varleus edueatI io  syetettu and analysis cf re-*lae* - tageu cf education1 developmeet betveen var-ius
ou-tties.  However, en th6  basis *f the present data, cross-natioea1 comparisen shoulc be approached  i1th great  Daution.  Data presented i0 the abeve -tabl  h-ve
been cellected 1argely by Bank missIons frem  g           *        ces; the remainder are tsaff estimates or data fret  Unesco.  Efferts h-ve been made to standardize
defieitions **d, vithin EiSfts, te check th.  -cc-racy of the data.  Ne-ertheless,  uch data are still imperfect in several re-pects and the Bank is working to
ieprove th.e pregressively on th. occasion of its operationl vork. In the use *f these data, th. folloiwig qealifications should be kept le *i4d:
(1)  ''Educatin  as defived in the t16bl  includes a11 education and training, b6th formal and non-formal.
(2)  "Primary" educatin reNfer to education at the first  level  nd "secondary" educattio  refers to aIl ed-catin at th6  secodary levai regardless *f type
(e.g., g*enera, technical, *Erlc*11*r*1).
(3)   Literacy rates  (col. 6) are vften obtaided from countrty cRnsuse.  In many countries they are  -cly appr**iRactcns and it is doubtful that any unEform
definitin *f "literate" has beee fll.e.d c-nitstently.
(4)   Fublsc expenditure i  education" (eol. 4 and 5) re-ers to all capita1 aed recurreet  iependitures deveted to education by public ard quasi-pblioc
*agenc*ieu 
(5) "Enrollmeet ratis" (celE. 7, 12 and 14) -efer te ucheol year and *re the pe-cectape f1 e1gib61e chi]d-re enrolled fcOl-t-:e ic the appRrpriate school,
publIc and private by level.  They are efter subject te a wide margin *0 er ro  in the developing ceuetries cwinp to cariatioe                   the e accuracy ef b-sic
data (i.e., age-specific popelatien and e*roll*e*îe).  Eerellment figures f-eque-tly are hegher an v the eber cf utudeets actcally  le schoel.  Ocer-aRed
tutdentu whese incleusic is indicated by footnvtes *1ev can inf1ate the -at:vu.



RUVOLUT'IONARY' I'IEO'l l'ES l,i'IHIC O  (I'INVJ
REPUBLI0UE PODULAIRE REVOLUTIONNZAIRE liE GUINEE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT.'DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT/MAIN-D'OEUVRE ET EMPLOI, 1975-1980
/( ) indicate estimates which are not always consistent with totals7'
7? ) indique les estimations ne correspondant pas toujours aux totaux7
Preliminary/
Prél imina ire
1]975       1976        1977         1978         1979             1980
A.  Lahor Force hv Sex/Miin-d'oeuvre par sexe /1            2,174                                                             2,410
Male/Hommes                                           1,303                                                             1,452
Fema les/Femmes                                         871                                                               958
B. Registered Wage Earners by Sector/Effectifs
recensés de la main-d'oeuvre salari4e par
secteur d'activité
1.  Public Administration/Secteurs d'état              33,400      36,800      37,100       37,500       39,370
2.  Public and Parapublic Enterprises/                 93,200      94,900      98,085       98,830      101,460
Entreprises nationales et sociétés
a.  Agriculture and Fishing/Agriculture           32,500     (33,070)    (33,155)      (33,160)     (33,900)
et pêche
b.  Mining/Mines                                  11,000      (11,120)    (11,220)     (11,239)     (11,301)
c.  Manufacturing/Industrie manufacturîère         7,200       (7,200)     (7,340)      (7,361)      (7,482)
d.  Construction and Public Works/Travaux         12,000     (12,100)    (12,160)      (12,304)     (12,576)
publics et bâtiment
e.  Transportation/Transports                      8,600       (9,000)     (9,200)      (9,256)      (9,353)
f.  Public Services/Services publics               7,100       (7,385)     (7,885)      (8,010)      (8,815)
g.  Banking, Trade and Insurance/                 12,000     (12,175)    (12,175)      (12,475)     (12,808)
Banques, assurances + commerce
h.  Hotels and Domestic Services/                  2,800       (2,800)     (2,850)      (2,925)      (3,125)
Hôtellerie + gens de maison
i.  Others/Autres /2                                 0          0          (2,200)       2,096        2,100
TOTAL                                            126,400    131,700    135,185         136,330      140,830                        |
/I  World Bank, Revolutionary People's  Republic of Guinea, Country Economic Memorandum, July 1981, Table 1.1
'2  Residual Value/Valeur résiduelle



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA/
REPUBLIOUE POPULAIRE REVOLUTIONNAIRE DE GUINEE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS/EFFECTIFS ET CORPS ENSEIGNANT 1978/79
Student/                       Enrollment
Teacher                         As % of
Age                                  Qualified       Ratio!/       PoulationÉ/6  Age Crotup
Croup/   Enroll-    Teaching          Teachers/      Taux          Age Croup/       Effectifs       Cirls/
Grades/  Groupe   ments/          Staff/       Enseignants   Eleves'          Population       en Z du        Filles
Level/Niveau                                       Classes  d' ge      Effectifs  Enseignants qualifiés (%) EnseigEnnt                           P_r groupe d'6Ee groupe d'âge    (Z)
Primary education/Erseignemnent primaire            1-6      7-12       252,100       6,608          34.2           38:1          735,737             34.3        34.6
Lower secondary gencral education/                   7-9    13-15        54,848 )               )               )                 310,022             17.7        27.9
Enseignement secondaire général                                               )
(ler degré)                                                                   )    3,093      )   16.4       )   29:1
)              )               )
Upper secondary general education/                 10-12    16-18        32,328 )               )               )                 280,775             12.5         26.4
Enseignement secondaire général (2ème
degré)
Secondary vocational education/                    10-12   16-18          2,771         247 /1                      10:1 /1                           10.1 /2    15.1
Enseignement prolessionnel secondaire
(IPS)
Teacher training (primary)/Enseignement            13-15    19-20         2,457
normal (primaire): Ecole Normale
d'Instituteurs (ENI)
Higher education/Enseignement supérieur            15-18   19-22         20,739       1,016 /4                       19:1  /5                          6.9         19.7 /3
(after the Baccalaureat/après le
baccalauréat)
/l  Not included IPS Faranah, Kissidougou, Siguri, Fria/non inclus IPS Faranah, Kissidougou, Siguri, Pria.
/2  Estimated for 1979/80/Estimations pour 1979/80.
/3 This estimate is only for the first two years of study/Estimation pour ler degré du 4ème cycle.
/4  This estinmate is for 1977/78 and includes 224 expatriate teachers/Estimation  pour 1977/78 et comprend 224 professeurs expatriés.
/5  This estimate is for 1977/78/Estimations pour 1977/78.
/6  Estimated from the population census of December 1972/Estimation sur la base du recensement de décembre 1972.



PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY REPUBLIC OF GUINEA/
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE REVOLUTIONNAIRE DE GUINEE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COMPARISON OF PER STUDENT COSTS IN WEST AFRICA/
COMPARAISON DES COUTS UNITAIRES EN AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Student/Coût unitaire
in $US / en $EU                as a % of GDP / en pourcentage PIB
Secondary                         Secondary
Education/                        Education/
Primary Educa-   Enseignmt.  Primary educa-          Enseignmt.
Year/  Gui per capita/           tion/Enseignmt.  général        tion/Enseignmt.      général
Année  PIB par tête              primaire           secondaire  primaire              secondaire
Guinea/Guinée           1979         290                    54               203             18                   70
Benin                   1977         200                    41                 92            20                  46
Central African         1977         250                    44                117            18                   47
Republic/Rêpublique
Centrafricaine
Ivory Coast/            1976         610                   120              1,040            20                  170
Côte d'Ivoire
Mauritania/             1977         270                   154              1,245            57                  461
Mauritanie
Senegal                  1976         420                   117                260            28                   62
Upper Volta/            1977         118                     62               440            52                  373
Haute Volta
ri



REVOLUTIONANY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OP GUINEA!
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE REVOLJUTIONNAIRE SE GUINEE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEMEf PROJET EDUJCATION
PROJECTIONS OP RECUREENT EXPENDITURRI/PEOJECTIONS SES REPENSES COUEANTES
(1955-1995)
(Enro1lmeots je thousando of un,its/Effectifs on milliers d>unités)
(Expenditures in millions ut Sylis/Répeses e- millions de Sylis)
hlypothesis A/Nypothès    A 1/                                                                                                       Hyppotheois  B/11yj-thèse I 2/
u.alitatit Change!                  Without Qualitative Changes!                    QuaI it-tivu-   ag
Wlithout Qualitativ,e Changes/Ions chang.emet qualitatif                                 Amli.r. qualitative           ~      Sans changement qualitat if                     AmsIio.a'1ittv
1985                                 1990                             1995                               1995                     1985                1990               1995            1995
'vo                                                                                             os                                                                 vo il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                                            osa             >sv Oaa  va                                                  O  010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Î
Fn~~o                                  4>                                                         O              55                                                          e        O     4,0~
o.  o  4>       n.                                    o.      -e~~~~~~~~~~0  5>-  es                                                        e      -.      n
O                  e       -M0                  o                o.0                                            >
V-at ...1 trinig/IP  4.3 39.7         24n        -n.       7.0    C5»        39.    104 -8              0>-O 10.    60      16.   610         520    9e3>0 447             6OC2.               2.       4.3 2178.                 Ce9
animal husbadry)/4èC                                    O       ana       e                                                                                                                                           -->4,    us
cY~~~~l., ler4>                             v          adegrvé5                                     4>5                                      n       CslauCf
.agr.-O                                            0       C       ->        n          s>vt-s>                                       ov       aa      oain                                                               os       04
First l.v.1 u.iversuity                                                                                                                                                                                            o     ou       o
(agriculur. & ainalI9.               70.    as4.    2a5o       e.      vo.    164a        235a      o.        70.    1649   25.   30.5 10o va             1s         79, va      4 >      9.      e5.        se,    e6.    vo7          4
h.sba.dry)/4èmc                                     a     ->      04          O          a eyo                                       so        -o     e--> ml    0--
Secod lvel   iv.sity   7.     56.on 4,           111.       -.       56v        45 113             70        68      5.        1.   21O7 >1-a2 9-4us  on  -72-1 12vs                                      8102as'          vu1.     v2
!4ème cye-le, a2n                                                   on        s          S       O       00>       ssem 4degré                                                                                       0      00
Pnimarp/ler cycl  360    353 2      97.3    50.5 1      7>       6>        2>      5592    636.266026     9>                         -       >1      6>                  4.  5'            72 559.7I06>                   -       6>
deodsy2e   t15>                  558        4>        8>      179       J87        5>        4>   I241         928        7>P,07IB                  50      2>        1>5       666       93?      999 ,3841435                 77       2.
Sème cycleseyMsso/msio    'éue  etoill   nec
Teohe   traini,a~ngEtN    a        2>eag  ann>8     35t 3    44> 3        4ra   slre    11>6n/PBa.mntn 47>0a58>6o4e5 15>2 3F 61>2          76>4 sa  .4re  r7ls    -20o.n4>s1>t6>7                                    2.7n>9             77s.
2/GI   icrain   a   a    veag   a.ulrae  f  %an   raIslaie   icrain   b   24,  r  t  hese  at   a    DPpe   cptaPI   agmnan   a   tu    mende5Zpr  n  t  aaiesrIl
Voc  tatxiona4l    oi   a  mramingtaux4 que I   24>2       63>9       7>h51             397     148a12              139b34             173i10           3>09ta47n89                             8>5     122       18>t1..8>                  1>



G H A N A
GWSC - ACCRA/TEMA METROPOLITAN AREA
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT FY1980-1985
(e 000'S)
Fiscal Year                           1980!1/       1981-/         19821/        1982-/         1983          1984          1985
Actual      Esticated      Forecast       Yorecast      Forecast      Forecast       Forecast
SOURCES
Income Before Interest             (5,379)         4473'    (5,042)-/        (11,253)       11,449         16,850        36,735
Depreciation                      1,411        1,323        4,521            2,525         5,582          6,027         6,875
(3,968)       1,770         (521)          (8,728)       17,031        22,877        43,610
LESS: Principal                       -            -             -               -           4,272          4,272         4,272
Interest                     1,590        1,548         1,935           1,090          2,419         3,024         3,780
Total Debt Service            1,590        1,548        1,935            1,090         6,691         7,296          8,052
Internal Cash Generation           (5,558)         222       (2,456)          (9,818)       10,340         15,581        35,558
Borrowings
IDA II                            2,554        1,330          -                -             -              -             -
Other Donor (Pipeline)              -            -             -               -           3,000          9,000         3,600
CIDA                              7,343        1,801        2,350            1,200           600            -             -
AFDB                                  1          551        1,150              700           200            -             -
Local Banks                       4,000          -             -               -             -              -             -
Total Borrowing              13,898        3,682        3,500            1,900         3,800         9,000          3,600
Coverr.nent Contributions
- Local                           6,067        5,281        4,500            3,600         5,000         12,500         7,500
- Foreign (IDA 111)                 -            -            -                -           3,000          7,500         4,000
TOTAL SOURCES-'                  2,!                                   (428,          ,                                                                                .ss
APPLICATIONS
Capital Investment
Second Stage Project             18,377       14,068       10,800            3,400           -  .           -             -
Technical Asstce/Rehab'n            -            -            -                -          11,800         29,000        15,100
Sewerage Works                      -            -            200              300           500            500         4,500
Other Water Supplies              1,960        1,500        1,600            1,200         2,600          3,000        10,000
Total Investment            20,337        15,568       12,600            4,900        14,900        32,500         29,600
Working Capital
Increase (Decrease)             (6,182)       (8,447)      (8,456)          (6,156)        5,240         10,981        14,758
Cash
Increase (Decrease)                 252        2,064        1,400           (3,062)        2,000         1,100          6,300
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          14 407        (9AIL)                                      Z&21          4422L          250^
Debt Service Coverage (tirmes)    NIL            NIL          NIL              NIL            2.5          3.1           5.4
1/ and 2/ See Footnotes in Annex 5.4
3/ After Government Subsidy
4/ 752 Equity and 25i Grant - ATMA Share of IDA III relates to Rehabilitation of Pipeline, Spares, etc.



080085 EDI'EATIIN PR0,JECT                                                                ANNOEX  8
:o ars  e:ort hs 9-osect Comrooest
O'S DELLAIS '000
TEC.INICAL i4STROCTOP            ~              NATIONAL                EOECATIONAL  84906UER                       PREJEOT              Cn  oeep
IF?  81081488  '9818180              INSTITITE2~F E1J-CAI39N   PLANNAIN       PLANNINO    PROJEET JNIT PREPARATION               ---- ----
ipo N1ANAN19  LAPE 90ZE8E8RE 6ARE88U5E  COLLESE   EN: KANKAN EN! LAPE  EPICATION    PRW  SHOP PIRECTORATE DIRECTEORTE  3P598D180                    SERVICES    T-OOIOâu,,-
1.  NVESTNENT   ST
A,011 CIVL   18K                              1,476.8  2,3S4.7   2,622,9            -            -    1.664.0  1.675.4         1,920,9        ;3:1.8           --                       64.5               12,246,2  :0.2  1,831.9
PhusîCal Coxtingee.c:es                     221.5    357.7       393.4           -           -       249,6    251.3           288.1        65.0-                                      9.7             -  :836.9   0.0        0.0
pries Oon.tin14eneles                       173,0    279.3       307.2           -                   19F4.9    196.2          220.0        31,M                                       4.5            -1,410.'  :3.0   104,1
Sub-Thtal INCLUPING C0NT.148ENCIES           1.B71.3  3.0211.8   3.323.             -            -    208.1  2,123,0           2,434,0       132.9             --                       78.2             -:1,493.6  13.0 2.020,9
Taxes                                       061,14    916.5      997,1           -                   632.6    636.9           230,2       159.                                       2,                  4,640,:  :3.0   606.3
Forelun Esechanas                         0,309.9  2.115.2   2,326.1             -                  ,476.0  1.486.1         :,703.8       373,0             --                       1.                 02450         11.  1414.6
B. FURN193RE                                     87.4    127.9    1.44,6         12.1                     84.2      04.2          99,8         13.1         34.3          12.1,          8.3             -    '09,3  :0.0    70.9
PFhxsieaî CotoeeeM.                                    12.8       14.1         1.2           -         84        0.4           00.0         1.4           9,4          0.2            0.0            -      70.0   0.0       2.0
Pries Contirenscie5                          19.3      28.3       31.,9        0. A                    15.2,     05.2          01.7         2.11          3.8          1.8            0.2             -     34,1   9.1    12.2
Sub-Total INELEPINI6 CONTINGEMCIES             115.4    169.0        :91.0      .14.6            -        07.8    107.8          02.            70          4.             4610.5                        -     14.7    %        3,2
Taxes                                       167.3    245.0       276,9       21.1            -       156.3    156.3           182.0        24.6         60.3          21.1           112-1,326.3   9:                      120.0
0. EDVIPNENT                                    415,0    574.1       712.4       31.2       364.0        114.4    114.4          188.2       650.0          30.2         29.1          15,                  3,380,  1.3       338.0
Pliosocal Cootinueoceas                      41.5      57.4       71.2         3.1        36.4        11.411.419.                          61.            3.0          2.             61-                  330.8   0.        0.
Pries Continsence5e                          91.7    126.8       157.4         2.1        80.4        20.0      20.61          29.6       102.2           3.4          1.9           26.0             -    602.7   0.1    6.
Sut-Total INOLUDIN8 0814T]NGENCIES             548,1    758.3       941.0        36.4       488,8       146.4    146.4           236.7       B17.2          36.6         34.0          207,9             -4,309.8   9.1  0,99,1
Taxes                                       734.1  1,016.1   1.261.0         48.8        644.3       196.2    196,2           307.2  1,095.0             49.0         41.0         278.6             -  0982.4   9,0   534.0
D. PRO&ESSI8ML FEES                             147.7    238.2       263.1          -            -       166.4    166.4          :92,4            -            -             -             -        :24.8  1,299.0  15.0  I14,8.
P8,ysîcal Continienceîs                      22,2      35.7       39.M                                25.0      25.0           28.9           -                          --                        87      :94.0   0.0       2.
Pries  contongescies                          8.3      13.4        14,9          -            -        9.4        9.4          10.0--                                                             49,4    105.6  10.0    11.1
Sut-Total 84Et68188 C3flTIN8ENCIES             178.      287.3      317.4           -            -      200.7    200.7           232.: 1                                                            192.9  :,609.1  13.1   219.9
Foreign SErcaasg                            178,1l   287.3       317.4           -           -       200.7    200.7           232,1           -                          --                       92.9  1,609,4  23,2   2Q0,9
E. SPECIALIST SERVICES                              -                             7.0    1,862.              -                 2147.9        506           351,8         95,0          806.6        1     5.25   C.23,  2,2.    0.0
Prizes Cootiongexes                             -          -          -        5.0       243.8            -                   13.1         98.3         51.2          11.094.                     46.1    7:7.2   0,         0.
Sut-Total INELUDINE CONTIN8ENCIEE                                                52.0    2.106.4             -         -       1,331 ,1      689           470           0.79.8                      7,25739            .'      00
Fareils Exehanas-e                                                           46.4    1.,879.5             -                 :186.î        605.5        U3630          91.          '95.6         10.0.   1.122,4   0.       0.
F. FELLMHI0PS                                   19.8      20.8        20.8       22.9       242.3        144.6    144,6          304.7         91.0        :014,4       114.4          96.-6             -1,307,2   0.          7.0
Pries Cont:ngesceis                           1.2       1.3         1.3        1.4        14,7        14.7      14.7           17.9         5.6         :1.17         10.7            4.9                  100.2 0.0CID
Sut-Total INaLUDING CONTINSENIES                  1.      22.1        22.1       24.3       257,1        158.3    159.3          322.6         97.0       :126.0        :21.1           71.1                0.427.3   0.        2.0
Foreims Exchange                             21.0      22.0       22.1        24.3       257.1       159,3    159.3           322.6        9'.1         126.:        '25.            71.5            -   ,407.3   0.0        0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTE                          2.146,6  3.345.7   3.763.8         113.5    2.469.2    2,170.6  2,180. 0          3.853.9    1.782,5          534.7         251.0       1.111.3         250.0 23,980.0  :0.2 2.441.1
%hsieal ContonAeoeies                          293.9    463.6        518.6        4,4        36.4        294.4    296.1          345.8        131.9          8.4           4.2'         2'.?          10.7  2,441,0   0.        0.0
Prire Contmngeneies                            293,4    449.1       512.7         9.3       338.9       254.8    256.1           482.2       228.7          70,0         211.0         :20.9         91.4  0.136.7   9,7   2':,.6
Total INCLOSINU CONTIN8ENCIES                   2.733.9  4,258,4   4,795.0         127.2    2,844,3    2,722. 82.737.3            4,001,0    2.143.0          611,2         280.4       1,219.3         364.1 29,558.0   9.2 2,710.0
Taxes                                        1,463.2  2.167.7   2,534.9          69.9       644.3       901.1     909.5        0.229.4    1,279.5          :093           6S.o         317.3             - 12868 12.6 0.261.6
Foreia  x Phranue                            1.270.7  2,090,8   2.268.1          5.1.7    1,973.1l    1.737.7  1,747.8         3,307,7        '90.1        45',9        202.3          8461.        343.9 1707.08,7   8.0 1.401.1
II. EOLMENT 00598
A. OMA88614  EXPENSES                          42.6      84.2        66.6                                18.71    88.7           56.2        18.1         :4.6           8.3           971.6           -      26.4   0.0       CID
PrmEe Cortingsîciex                         11.3      22.4       17.7           -           -         4.2       4.2           12.6         4.9           3.0          1.9          21,9             -     104.2   0.0       0.0
Sul-TOtal INCLOOINO CENTIN8ENEIES              54.0    106,6        84.2           -            -       22.?      22.9           62.7        23.7         :.7.8         10.2         119.6             -      3,     0.        .0
Taxes                                       38.3      75,7       519.           -           -        16.3      16.3           48.8        15à.3        12.6          '.2           84.9             -     370.7   0.0       0.0
Foreiln Exehange                            15,16     30.9       24.4           -           -         6.6       0.6           19.9         6.9           5.2          3.0          34.7             -     100.9   0.0      0.0
B. L8EAL SENONRS                                   -         -          -          -           -            -         -          62.4            -         17,2            -              -            -      79.5   1.0       0.
Pries Coantinen-exss                                                                                                          22.0           -            ,2            ---                                20.2   0.0      3.0
Sut-Total INCLUOIN800ONTIHOENCIOSS                                                                                               84.4                      21.4            -                                 :5.8   0.0        0.0
Total RECU8RENT0C0STS                               42,6      84,2       66.6           -                    :.71      19,7          181          18.7         31.0           3.3          97,3                   506.0   0.0      0.
Pries Continapurmes                             :11.3      22.4       17.7          -            -         4.2       4.2          34.6          4,0          7,           :2.           21.9             -    130.4   0.0       0.0
Total INCL00IN8 CONTINGENCIEE                       54.0    :86.6        84.2           -           -        22.9      22.9         113.2         23.7         39.2          10.2,        1I9.o             -    830.4   0.0       0.
Taxes                                           38,3      75,7        59.8          -                      6.7       6.           488         :0            126           7284.9                              376,7   0.0       .01
Foresun Exchanoe                                 15,6      30.9       24.4          -            -         6.5       0.6         :19.0          8.9          1.2          3.0           34,7                  ' 13,9 0.         09
Total PASELINE C0STS                              2,189.2  3,429,4   3,803.3        113.5    2,469.        2,192.3  2.203.8        3,972.4    1,801.2          106.15        209.3       1,209.1         250.0 24,486-1  10.0 2,441.5
PhysieaI Continencies                          293.9    403,6        018.6        4.4        36.4        294.4    296,1          341.8       131..9          0.4           4.2          27.0         18.7  2.1441,5   0.0       0.0
Pries COxtinssnciex                              304.0    471.5       030.3        9.2       338.9        258.9    200.3          5.1          233.6         77.5,        27.:1         :42,7         95.4  3,267.0    3.0   271.6
Total PR8JE00 COSTS                               2,717.9  4,365,    4.879.3        127.2    2.044.3    2,745,7  2,700.2           4,035.0    2,.:6.7'         S0504         290.0       1,370,9         064.: 019,         9.2 2,713.:



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
GHANA
Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
Project Cost Estîmates in Thousand US Dollars
(March 1983 Prices)                   US$OO0s
Foreign      Local       Total
I. Technical Assistance
A.  Salary Costs                               1,800          -         1,800
B.  Support Costs                                500        1,500       2,000
C.  Office & Training Equipment                   40          -            40
D.  Vehicles                                     150          -           150
Sub-Total                                 2,490        1,500       3,990
II. Management Improvement Program
A.  Personnel in Ghana                           847          487       1,334
B.  Personnel in Home Offices                    269          -           269
C.  Local Consultant Support                     -            250         250
D.  Reimbursable Expenses                        264          -           264
E.  Office Equipment                              20           20          40
F.  Vehicles                                     100           93         193
Sub-Total                                 1,500          850       2,350
III. Consultant Services
A.  Design                                       526          101         627
B.  Supervision                                  279           92         371
C.  Reservoir Studies                            180           20         200
D.  Reservoir Studies                             52           20          72
Sub-Total                                 1,037          233       1,270
IV. Pipeline Rehabilitation
A.  Cathodic Protection                          390          210         600
B.  Recoating                                  1,547
1.  42-inch                                1,547         604       2,151
2.  32-inch                                  430         170         600
C.  Pipe Replacement
1.  42-inch                                  995         238       1,233
2.  32-inch                                  358          87         445
D.  Valves and Fittings                          239          128         367
E.  Maintenance Equipment and Supplies           593          153         746
F.  Crossings                                    121           46         167
Sub-Total                                 4,673        1,636       6,309
V.  Miscellaneous
A.  Spare Parts and Tools                        450           45         495
a  B.  Public Fountains                              100           90        190
C.  Water Meters                                 100          -           100
D.  Pick-up Trucks and Cars                      300          -           300
E.  Mopeds                                        50           15          65
Sub-Total                                 1,000          150       1,150
TOTAL BASE COST                               10,700        4,369     15,069
CONTINGENCIES (Physical) 12%                   1,300          524       1,824
(Price)                        1,000        4,507       5,507
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           13,000        9,400      22,400
January 10, 1983



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA/
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE REVOLUTIONNAIRE DE GUINEE
SECONfD ERICATTON PROJIECT/DEUIXTEMF PRO TET F.DIJATTON
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES SPECIALISTES DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
Reference in                                                                       Total        Cost
Appraisél                                                                         Man-      Estimates
Report/                                          Number of        Local/       Months/        (US$)/      Starting
Référence dans                                     Specialists/  Expatriates   Total   Estimations    Date/
Project Components/            le Rapport                   Title/                Nombre de       Cuinéens/    Mois-    des Coûts    Date de                                 Summary Job Description/
Elements du Projet            d'Evaluation                  Titre               Spécialistes    Expatriés    lommes           ($EU)        Démarrage                       Description Sommaire des Tâches
A.  Technical Instructor                      Carpentry and joinery in-              1                E            24        240,000         7/83       Train Cuinean instructor trainers; prepare and evaluate training
Training Instituts/                           structor/Expert en                                                                                        programs in expert's specialty and related subjects/Formation
Institut Supérieur de                         menuiserie                                                                                                des instructeurs guinéens;préparation et évaluation de
Formation des                                                                                                                                           programmes de formation des IPS dans sa spécialité.
Professeurs de
l'Enseignement                                Masonry instructor/                    1                E           24         240,000         7/83
Supérieur (ISFORPET)                          Expert en maçonnerie
Mechanical workshop in-                I               E            24        240,000          7/83                                   __    -_
structor/Expert en
mécanique générale
Plumbinginstructor/                   I                E            24        240,000          7/83                                  __
Expert en plomberie
Automotive trades in-                  I               E            36        360,000          7/83                                   __    -_
structor/Expert en
mécanique auto
Sheet metal welding in-               1                E            36        360,000          7/83                                  __    -_
structor/Expert en
chaudronnerie et charpente
métallique
Inistructor for heavy                 1               E             36        360,000          7/83                                  __    -_
machinery/Instructeur
engins travaux publics
B.  Storage Unit/                             Store manager/                         1                E             6         60,000         10/84      Organization and initial operation of a central service for
Magasin Central                               Cestionnaire de stock                                                                                     purchasing, storage and distribution of working materials,
tools, spare parts, etc./Organisation et démarrage du
magasin central.
C.  General Education                          Educational planning                   1               E            24        240,000         10/83       Organization of the Caneral Educatimn Planning Directorate
Planning Directorate/                          specialist/Spécialiste                                                                                    (DGPE) and contribution to planning studies and training of
Direction GOn_Urale de                         en planification de                                                                                       local staff/Organisation de la Direction Générale de la
la Planification de                            l'éducation                                                                                               Planification de l'EduPation (DGPE) et contribution aux itudes
l'Education (DGPE)                                                                                                                                       de planification et à la formation des guinéens.
Consultants for higher                3                E             6        60,000          4/84       Short-term consultants for higher education statistirs, voca-
education, vocational                                             (2x 1)                                 tional asd tracer studies/Etudes sur les
and tracer                                                                                               statistiques de l'enseignement supérieur, le développement de
studies/Consultants                                              (1 x 4)                                 l'enseignoment technique et le devenir des élves des IPS.
pour études sur l'enseignement
supérieur, le développement
de l'enseignement technique et
le devenir des élèves
Consultants in educational            3                E             4        40,000           4/85      Short-term  consultants for local training of regional planning
statistics and planning for                                        (2 x 1)                               staff/Consultants à court-terme pour la formation locale en
local training/Consultants                                         (  x n)                               planification de l'éducation du personnel régional.
pour la formation du personnel
local en statistiques et
planification
lo D
O Z>



Refoeeco in                                                                     Toto]        CooL
Appraisal                                                                       Man-       Estimates
Report/                                          Nsmber of       l,ocal/      Months/       (us$)/      Starting
Référesce dans                                     S Specialints!/  Epatriates/  Tota]   Estimations    Date/
Project Componeots/          le Rapport                    Title/              Nombre de       Guinéens/    Mois-    des Coûts    Date de                               Sunnsary  lob Desc-iption
Eléments du Projet          d'Evalation                    Titre              Spécialistes    Expatriés   Hommes           ($EU)       Démarrage                      Descriptisît Sommaire des Tâciles
D.  Ioom  Resoorces                        Conssltants in masposer                 3             E             10       100,000           10/83     Slort-term consaltants for follos-sp ni  anpo-er  -eeds
Planning/PlaniFication                     statistics and planning/                                                                                  stody and organication of manpoer statistics/Consaultants
des Ressources                             Consultants pour les                                                                                      à court-terme pour l'élaboration do saisi Ndscatif des
HNimaines                                  statistiques et la plani-                                         (i $2)                                  besoins de main-d'oeuvre et l'organisation des
fication de l'édscation/                                                                                 statistiques de l'emploi.
formation
E.  Notiottoi Pedagogical                 Cfrricalnm developnent                   I             E             24       240,000          10/83       Coottibstion ta primary ed-cation and teacher traimiîtg
Nnstitate/Inlstitsle                       specialisr/Nnpeet on                                                                                      clrrinla, asd to tbe training of Goincansg/Par ticipation
National Pédagogiqae                       élaboration des                                                                                           à l'élaboration des programmes do primaire et de la
programmies                                                                                               formation des maîtres et de ses hîomologues goinéens.
Initial and fs-service                 I              E             24       240,000           9/84      Contribution to initial and in-setsiie teacher teainiaf
teabher training                                                                                         curîiulsa and preparation né teacher troin,ing documents/
specialisit/Epert en                                                                                     Participation 3 l'elaboration des programmes de formation
formation et recyclage                                                                                   initiale et continue des maîtres et préparation de
des maîtres                                                                                              documents pédagagiqoes poilr la formation.
Textbook editing specialist/            i             E             36       360,000          10/83      Contribstion ta the elaboration af textbook specificatio.s,
Ftpert en édition des                                                                                    technical follos-up af the authors  terms and editorial
nannels                                                                                                  croies of tbe  aoanscripts/Contribîrtifnt     S l'élaboration
des spécificatio.s  tecbniques des manuels, au soivi technique
des auteurs et -o contrôle éditorial des projets de manscls.
Textbook productio                      I             lE            24       240,000          10/ô3      Conrribation to setting up the textbobk prodiirtioiî depart-
specialistt/Epert en                                                                                     ment, draftisg the printing specificatio-s nF the textbooks
production des mansels                                                                                   and planning their prodsction/Contribîîtian I la mise en
place do département, élaboration des spécifications
techniq-es d'impression et N la planificaton et contrôle 
do processus d'élaboration dem -nasels.
Consultants for local                   6             E              8        80,000           1/84      Ihort-term eonnoltaors for IPN and regional staff traisi,ag
staff training in experi-                                                                                i1 pedagogical and study techniques and for the organisation
mentation, esaluation,                                           (4 o ).5)                               nf IPN doesmentation/Coesiltants pour la formation do
methodology af teaching                                          (l   2 0.25)                            person,nel de l'IPN et des régions N des techniqaes
and for organizing IPN                                                                                   pédagogiques et d'értdes et N l'organisation de la
documentatioo/Caassltanes                                        (3 x 0.75)                              documentation de l'IPN.
pour la formation de pet-
Osonel local pour empéri-
mentation, évaluation,
méthodologie et organisation
de la documentation de l'IPN
F.  EdNcation Print                        Printing techniqua                      I             E             60       600,000           7/83       Contribution ta the general manageenet of the print shap and
Shop/lnprimerie de                         specialist/Spêcialiste des                                                                                particularly ta the srganization of printing operations/
I'Edolcation et de                         techbiques de l'imprimerie                                                                                Participation à la gestion générale de l'imprimerie et
la Culture (IDEC)                                                                                                                                   particulièrement à l'organisation de l'imprimerie.
Consultants for textbook               3              E              5         50 000          1/84      Short-term consaltants for the organization of textbook
storage and distribution                                                         '                       storage and distribution, and for equipment maintenan-e
and eqîtipment maintenance/                                       (I n 3)                                training/Consultants ô  -ort-terme pmur stockage et
Consaltan1to pour le stockage                                      (2 o I)                               distribrti-n des manuels et formation N la maintenante dcs
ct distribution des man-els                                                                              êquipeme-ts.
et formation à la maintenance
des éqaipements
G.  Education Project                       Managerial assistant/                   I              E            36        360,000           7/83      Gceneral management nf the project/C(estion générale du
Directorate/Direction de                   Gestionnaire                                                                                              projet.
Projets Edscation
Architect/Architecte                    N             E             42        420,000          7/82      Supersision of arehitectural design  nork and construction!
Supervision des études architecturales et de la
constroction.
Gonsultants/Consultants                4              E             9          90,000          7/82       Preparatian of equlpment lsts and biddlng documents:
(2   l)                                 schedule ni accsmmodations for the IPS et Faranah/              Z 
(2 n 2)                                 Preparation des listes d'equipe...nt et de,  Is"et
(2 o 1.)                                d'ampeo d'offres;  nemelatîîre don Io   le d '05i1
de Faranah.



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA/
REPUBLIQUE REVOLUTIONNAIRE POPULAIRE DE GUINEE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDllCATTON
SUIMMARY OF FELLOWSHIPS/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES BOURSES DE PERFECTIONNEMENT
Roforence in                                                                Total                              Basic
Appraisal                                                        Local/    Mao                          Qualifications
Report/                                                        Abrood/  Months/  Total Costs             af Trainees/               Starting
Réféce-ce dans                                                     Locales!  Total        (<us/          Quolificatioos                   Date/
Project Componeots/             le Rapport              Field of Study/               NBmber/        à        Mois-   Colts totaux         Pondoseetolea                Dats do          Summory of Responsibilities/
Eléments do Projet             d'Evaluation           SBoets d'Etudes                  Nombre  l'Etranger Hommes          ($EU)            des Boursiers              éDmarrage   Description des Responsabilitîs
A.  Tech ical Instructor                        Masagement of vocatiomal teacher    1              A          1            5,000    Siroctsr-Oonerol of ISFORPET    7/83    Management and development af sacs-
Training Institate/                              training institutiosm/Gestion                                                       or alternate/Directeur de                     tisnaS teacher troisieg/Direction
Institut Supérieur de                            d'uo  institut de fomatise de                                                       l'ISFORPET os son adjoint                    et gestion g5PfrolC de l'ISFORPET
Formation des Professeurs                        professeurs
de I 'E seg ignent
Toehbique (ISFORPET)                             Troiaing methods for vocational          9         A         81         186,0û0    Experienced vacatioeal teach-  10/83    Theoretical aad practical instrac-
toachers in respective                                     (9 a 9)                  er oith good trade experience/               tie af vsocational teacher
specialty/Formation de formateurs                                                   Professeur expérimonté                       trainees/Professeurs à l'ISFORPET
dans les spécialités retenues                                                       d'enseignement technique dans
doms Se projet                                                                      les filières concernées par le
projet
Organization and implementation         2         A         20           46,000    Experienced vacational tosacer  1O0i3   Organization and  oafagemt ai
of equipment maistenance in va-                            (2 o 10)                 or maintenasco tochnician with               equipment mointeancoe In soati.onl
cational schobls/Organisotion                                                       good technical bockground/                   schools/Orgaoisation et maintenacce
et mise os ses-ro de la                                                             Professeor de mécanique et                   des éqoipements de L'ISFORPPT et IPS
maintenance des éqaipem..ts                                                         électra-méoanique expérimenté
à l'ISFORPET et dans les IPS
Use and operation of photo lab          B         A          3            9,000    Photo technician with eoporioncc              Operation af photo lob ta support
as support for vaotional                                                            in productien and use of peda-               vocational teacher trainieg/
teacher triainig,'Utilisation                                                       gogic :oteriols/Techbicien photo             Opération do laborotoire phato
d'an Iaborataire photo pour                                                         avec experierce de l'otilisotion             de  I 'ESFCPPET
l'élabarotise de materiel                                                           do matériel pédagogique
didBctiqoe
I. scotiasal Traintit si                            Maoagement af vocational ede-           3         A          3           15,000    Director af IPS or alternate/   10/83   Management and deselopment of
Polytechi iq ies  Secondaires                       cation & traioing/Gestion des                              (3 s S)                  Directeur de l'IPS ou soa                    voctional training/Direction et
(IPS) yc    e     c aIPS do Lobé, Kankan et                                                                                             adjoint                                      gestias géméro1e des IPS de l.abé,
(EPS)                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~N'Zéréksré                                                                                                             Kookas, et NRUêérébré
Practical  oorkshop  ksills             3         A         18           44,000    Experienced vocational teacher  I0/83   Supervisios of practical skills
training in vocational                                    (3 x 6)                   with industrial trade experiesce/            training in vocational schobls/
schoolq/Plasifioation et                                                            Professeur d'enseignement tech-              Chef de travsas dons les IPS
contrôle des travaux pra-                                                           nique espérimesté .a chef de                 fionadcs
tiqoes                                                                              trevsas
C.  Cestral Starage                              Orgasiostian oad mo..agement             S         A         10           23,001    Ooad basic teobnical edocotion  10!83  MH..age..e.t ai  -etral storoge umit/
C CitMngtsiaL  Cestral                           af a central unit for pur-                                                          and administrative experienoe/               Gestion de stockage  et distributins
chasing, storage and dis-                                                           Bonme formation technique et                 des éqoipemeets et matière d'oessre
tribation af edocati oal                                                            empérience de 1'adaimistrttieu
materials/Orgaisatiton
et gestion du magasin
central d'équipement et
matière d'oeuvre
S.  Ge..erin   Edacton                           Educati1ation  i plsnig witb a           4         A         40           92,000    Ad,anced trainiag in education/  10/83    P1annion staff if the GeneraL
Ploaoiag T),c.a.                                 specializatioa (soboal mappisg.                            (4 5 15)                 Stades  spgriesres em sciences de              Educatioo Planning Directoroto!
Directioa an Crorl                               statistios,  -ot aced Diaosisg,                                                      l'éducation                                   Personnel de la Directios
de la PIasificatios                              vecational training)/ Plant-                                                                                                       Gémélrale de la Planification
de 1 'Education (DGPE)                           fication de E'éducation avec                                                                                                       de l'EdcaPtiae
ose spécialisation
EdRcation and career cosa-              1         A         10            23,000   Advanced training tn  dedcation    10/83                        "                n
seling/Information scolaire                                                         or school guidance/8tudes sapé-
et usiversitaire                                                                    rieures en  éducation om  orienta-                                              ,  -
tion scm1aire
Educational planning/
Planification de l'éducation           30         L          1.5          15,000   Officers with planning and ad-    4/85  Staff af the regional education
(3 x 0.5)                ministrative responsibilities in             planning anits/Personnel des
regional offices/Personnel régional         bureaux de planification régionsau
ayant responsabilités ea plani-
fioation et admisistratios



Reference in                                                                Total                             Basic
Appraisal                                                        Local/    Mn                          Qualifications
Report/                                                         Abroad/  Months/  Total Costs           of Trainees/               Starting
Référence dans                                                    Locales/  Total        (0s$) /        Qualifications                 Date/
Project Components/            le Rapport             Field of Study/                 Number!      à        Mois-   Cots totaux         Fondamentales                Date de         Summary of Respsibli
Eléments du Projet            d'Evaluation            Sujets d'Etsdes                 Nombre   l'Etranger Hommes        ($EU)           des Boursiers               Démarrage   Description des Resp' sabiliù
E.  Humas Resources                             Education planning with a               2          A         20         46,000      Advanced training in educa-    10/83    Planning staff of the luman
Planning/Planifieation                          specialization(vocational                                  (2 x 10)                 tion or economics/Etudes                    Resources Planning Division/
des Ressources humaines                         training, cost and financing)/                                                       supérieures en éducation                   Personnel de la Division des
Planification de l'éducation                                                        ou économie                                 Ressources Humaines
avec une spécialisation
Manpower planning/                      2          A         20         46,000      Advanced training in econs-    10/84
Prévisions de mais-d'oo,,vrc                               (2 x ,10)                mics/Etudes supérieures en
économie
Manpower statistics/                    1          A         10         23,000      Advanced training in statis-   10/83    Statistics staff of the Directcats'
Statistiques besoins                                                                tics/Etudes supérieures en                 nf EmRlovment/Fonctioensir,c
main-d'oeuvre                                                                       statistiques                                de la Direction do Travail
F.  National Pedagogical                       Curriculum development/
Institute/lnstitut Péda-                       Elaboration  des programmes             2          A         20         46,000      Advurced training in education  9/82    Research staff of the National
gogique National                                                                                          (2 x 10)                 ucienccs  and.teaching experiesco'          Pedussgical émuti;ute!Cssrg%
Rtsds-s nspériesrs  s  cins  .              i tIdes de I  l'IN
de l'éducation et expérience  de
l'enseignement
Evaluation techniques!                  2          A         20         46,000                                         9/82
?cc},niqlcs d ,valuation                                   (2 x 10)
Science tca.,hi,g  el:hodu/            I          A         10         23,000      Advanced training in sciences   9/83
Méthodo1ogie de l'enseignement                                                      and experience in teaching/
des sciences                                                                        Etgdes supérieures e  sciences
et oxpérience de l'enseignement
Mathematics teaching methods/           1          A         10         23,000      Advanced training in Mathematics  9/83
Mé'thodologie de l'enseignement                                                     and teaching experience/Etudes
des mathématiques                                                                   supérieures en mathématiques
et expérience de l'enseignement
Teaching methods/Méthodologie           2          A         20         46,000      Advanced degree in education        9/82
de l'enseignement                                          (2 x 10)                 und experience in teacher
training/Etudes en sciences de
l'éducation et expérience de la
formation des maîtres
Teotbhok development and                2          A         20         46,000      Advanced degree in education        9/82
editing/Rédaction et édition                              (2 s 10)                  and experience in teaching/
des manuels scolaires                                                               Etgdes en sciences de l'édu-
cation et expérience do
I 'OenseigneOment
Tcxtbook production und control/        2          A         20         46,000      Advanced degree in education        9/82
Production et contrôle des                                 (2 s 10)                 and experience in textbook
manuels scolaires                                                                   production/Etudes en sciences
de l'éducation et expérience
de la production des masuels
Librarian/Docmuentaliste                I          A          6         12,000      Qualification and experience        9/84
commensurate with the fonction/
Qualification et expérience
commensurable avec la fonction
Illustrator/Dessinateur                 1          A          6         12,000      Illustrator/Dessinateur             9/82



Reference in                                                                    Total                            Basic
Appraisal                                                           Local/      Man                         Qualifications
Report/                                                            Abroad/   Muoths/  Total Costs            of Trainees/               Starting
Référenee dans                                                       Locales    Total        ($0S)!          Qualifications                 Date/
Prcject Components/              le Rapport              Field of Study/                  Number/       à        Mois-   CoGts totaux         Fondamentales                Date de        Su=ary uf Responsibilties/
Eléments du Projet             d'Evaluation             Sujets d'Etudes                  Nombre   l'Etranger  Hommes          ($EU)           des Boursiers               Démarrage   Description des Respossabilités
G.  Education Print Shop/                         Eleetrical/electronic maintenance    1               A          10         23,000        Degree in electrotechno-           10/83       Technical staff of IDEC/
Imprimerie de l'Eduac-                            (printing machinery)/Electro-                                                            logy and experience/Diplôme                   Personnel technique de l'IDEC
tion  et de la Culture                            technique (photocomposition et                                                           en électro-technique et
(lDEC)                                           photo-gravure)                                                                            expérience
Maintenance mechanie/Mécanique            I          A           10        23,000        Degrec i0 mechanics and            10/83
de maintenance                                                                           experienc.e/Diplôme en
méchanique et expérience
Printing management/Gestion               I          A          10         23,000        Print Shop technician with    10/83
de l'imprimerie                                                                           a general experience in
printing/Spécialiste de
l'impression avec expérience
Offset and printing press                 1          A          10         23,000        Print shop technician with    10/83
specialist/Technicien offset                                                             general knowledge ef printing
et presse                                                                                machines/Spécialiste de l'im-
primerie avec expérience du
fonctionnement des presses
H.  Teacher Training                               Science teaching methodology/             2          A           20        46,000         Science teacher with long         10/83               ENI staff/Personncl
Colleges/Ecoles Normales                           Méthodologie enseignement des                                  (2 x 10)                   experience/Professeur de                              *ies EN'
d'instituteurs  (ENI)                              sciences                                                                                  sciences avec longue expé-
rience
General teaching methodology/             4          A          40         92,000        ENI professors/Professeurs
Méthodologie de l'enseignement                                 (4 x 10)                  ENI
Curriculum develspment and                2          A          20         46,000
evaluation/Elaboration des                                     (2 s 10)
programmes et évaluation
Methodology of teaching                   2          A          20         46,000        ENI teachers of Frencb/Pro-
French/Méthodologie du                                        (2 x l0)                    fesseurs de français à l'ENI
français langue étrangère
Librarian/Documeantliste                  2          A          12         24,000        Secondary schuol graduate and
(2 x 6)                    teachingepcin/3ile
esseignement secondaire et
.epOri.nce de 1'ensoignse..sr
Laboratory technicias/
Technicien du laboratoire                 2          A          12         24,000        Scie.rtific baccslal.eate'Bac-
(2 x 6)                   calauréat sciestifique
t.  Education Project                              Bookkeeping/Comptabilité                  1          A           10        23,000        Degree in sccaQnting/DiplSur         q '63   Education Project Diroctorate
Directorate/Direction                                                                                                                        en comptabilité                             staff/Pers ....1 de la D:rect:on
des Projets Educatios,                                                                                                                                                                   do projet.
Procurement and bidding                   I          A          10         23,000        Secondary uchool graduate/           05æû3
docsments/Passation des                                                                  Dipl8mé enseignement seco- daire
marchés et préparation
des appels d'offres
Coordinatios of study                               4A                      20,000                                            4/84   Pro/oct Director/Directe-r
(travel)/Dlirection(voyages                                                                                                           dii pro'jet.
d'études)



PREPACATION                  EXECI.TION
CRNSUAThTION
VOCATIONAL TEkINING: LNSTIT1TTES/LNSTINDTS
POLYTECANIQlUES SECONDAIRES (IPS)
Civilwartts/Génie_clv'i                                                                                                               ___ ;  :z= _ = =__t=
EqRuip ,ns-Purntura/Eauipst-awbier -                                                                                              4F.z-t -   -
|Locail staff  rleaining/Pormaticn personne. lc_a1                _4 -.-4-         =I                                                                                                             SiÇj
TECENICAL INSTRUCTOR TRALNL\G INSIITUTE/LNSTIT 1
DE PROFESSEURS DE L'ENSEIT ,li lT TECHIIQi (ESFC-tET> -                  I=
CENTRAL SlORAGE UNIITI}fAASTN CENTRALi =t~--                                                       W     =tt  =' t
SpecialisesTie/eVCsd rrn  te  =0-rTeWe       
-EENENRÀLECATIO  2PLA'NING DIRECTORAIE/DlRECT| |O= -
CENERALE DE LA PLANIFICATION DE L'EDUCATION  (DCPE)                  -         -                        ,           -                                                                                |
|  SpeOiZli1t s ' S i          dA :péccoN _                             .i                  E:                                                                              _R
L.. 1oa staff tr.i.i.g/Por mtion peroneoal ..  =l 1-
HRbbUMA  I RESL'RCE  PLA§NNIG/PLANIFICAlION DES|        i |                                      ,         +                _    -         T                           =
NFATIONAL PEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE/INSTITUI
CiviI vok/é ie  iil
LEDrCATION PRINT1 SHOP/sLMPRIIIERIE DE L'EDLCATION EIT                               | '           tjr           -     4
|DE LA CLLTUR  (LDEC)                                       ||!I               i     §         4 it           T                                                                     
Civi1  -ok i/Genie civil                                  1      iit         i»^ -_                             -     +     i-t t          |J |2            &|| -||             If      
t  Eqip=et-Funitre/EuiptentbiIiat_-                                                                                                          t,it         f     !i      llI                        :!
lZCER TalINL    COLLEGES/Lervies NeMocALESte                                                                                                                                              I
D'NTTUER  (Ea taftaningFrain)ronllc                                                                     4L                                                  t                   
WÙDCATION IP__m
|0 <  PRPRTION                /iCONSLLATAI.ION                   M-CUITIN



- 49 -                 ANNEX 13
GUINEA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/GUINEE - DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
.SCHEDILE OF DISBURSEMENT/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(US$000 de dollars E.U.)
.Fiscal                                     Accumulated      Undisbursed
year/                                      Disbursements/   balance/
Année        Quarter/    Disbursements/   Décaissements    Solde non
budgétaire   Trimestre   Décaissements    accumulés          décaissé
1984         1             100              100            10,900
2            100               200           10,800
3            300               500           10,500
4            500             1,000            10,000
1985         1            500             1,500             9,500
2            500            2,000              9,000
3            500            2,500              8,500
4          1,000            3,500              7,500
1986         1          1,500             5,000             6,000
2          1,000            6,000              5,000
3          1,000            7,000              4,000
4          1,000             8,000             3,000
1987         1            500             8,500             2,500
2            500             9,000             2,000
3            300             9,300             1,700
4            300             9,600             1,400
1988         1             300            9,900             1,100
2            300            10,200               800
3            300            10,500               500
4            200            10,700               300
1989         1             200           10,900               100
2            100            11,000                 Q



-50-                             ANNEX 14
GUINEA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS AGAINST STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURES
1.        IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditures
submitted by the Government, covering IDA-financed operating expenditures
of the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN), the Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (ENIs), the Vocational Training Institutes (IPSs) and the Education
Project Directorate (para. 3.08(d) of the Staff Appraisal Report). A review
of the conformance of these expenditures with the Credit Agreement would be
made by the Government and IDA during the disbursement process, as indicated
below.
(a)  The ministries concerned (MESRS, MEPU, METMFP and the MPS) would
prepare annual budgetary estimates of the operating costs for the
Education Project Directorate, the General Directorate for Educa-
tional Planning, the National Pedagogical Institute, the Education
Print Shop, the Primary Teacher Training Colleges, and the
Vocational Training Institutes, for inclusion in the Government's
recurrent budget.
(b) The Project Director would submit to IDA each year a budget for
project expenditures, including the estimates referred to under
(a) above. This budget would present expected project expendi-
tures financed by IDA for a 12-month period, using the expenditure
categories in the cost tables included in the Staff Appraisal
Report. The statements of expenditures would refer to the items
included in the annual budget. The Project Director would attach to
the budget a statement showing the total expenditures incurred
previously for each category.
(c) All expenditures reimbursable against statements of expenditures
would be pre-financed by the project's revolving fund (para. 4.15
of the Staff Appraisal Report).
(d) Justification for expenditures (vouchers, invoices, receipts)
would be kept in the Education Project Directorate's files and
would be available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
(e) Documentation for the statements of expenditures would be reviewed
by the Director of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance, who would
sign the statements of expenditures for conformity.



- 51 -                             ANNEX 15
GUINEA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/
GUINEE - DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE/
LISTE DES DOCUMENTS ET DES DONNEES CLASSES DANS LE DOSSIER DU PROJET
1.   Guinée - Education:  Priorités et Perspectives.  Unesco, Paris, July
1980.
2.   Education Sector Memorandum.  World Bank, February 25, 1981.
3.   Projet de Requête du Gouvernement Guinéen.  Conakry, March 1981.
4.   Rapport sur la rédaction, production et distribution des manuels
scolaires (A et B). T.J. Benbow, June 1981 et Neal Burton, March 1982.
5.   IPS(s) - Etudes architecturales - Esquisses et Avant-projets.  Cabinet
Castanet, February and June 1982.
6.   IPN - Etudes architecturales - Esquisses et Avant-projets.  Cabinet
Castanet, February and June 1982.
7.   ENI(s) - Etudes architecturales - Esquisses et Avant-projets.  Cabinet
Castanet, February and June 1982.
8.   Detailed Working Papers on each project component/Documents de Préparation
détaillés pour chaque élément du projet:
-    National Pedagogical Institute/Institut Pédagogique National (IPN).
-    Educational Printing Office/Imprimerie de l'Education et de la
Culture (IDEC).
-    Teacher Training Colleges/Ecoles normales d'instituteurs (ENI).
-    Technical Education Component/Volet enseignement technique (IPS,
ISFORPET, Magasin central).
-    Educational Planning/Planification de l'éducation (DGPE).
-    Human Resources Planning/Planification des Ressources humaines.
-    Project Administration and Management/Administration et gestion
du projet.
-    Architectural Services, Construction and Procurement of Goods/Services
architecturaux, construction et passation des marchés de fourniture
de biens.






IBRD 16462
M AURITANIA    i                     o                                               12°                                                    lO0                                                         JUILY  982
S S E N E G A L
i15 ~       ~          VOT Tt,   a-q</§9                                                                                                                                 M    A    L I
NIGER               RKand~
-~~~1HE~ ~                                                                                                                                                                   A 
VERRA ORNE     iVORY     PE
OAST HANA                                                    MoL~I2
GBISS EAU 
Y                j obe5                                           so , A  ,'
VOCATIO.AL TRAIINGCONARY'                                  \            a                                              \4   ;\  J y  \              ; / &2.T  d,  .i
GUINEAK
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT  <J                           
DEIIlX/EME- P)?OJEr FO9I/CA T/ON
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                   OAR
FO,?MArION PEOFESS1IVNI EUF
2  Xe bvn9qs iconi/re5//PSy    É         < /  ~S I E R R A                                             2V\           <        4                       
a                  T" r e = i   g =yeuil               W                                  L   E      O    N      E                                sioguà                        eunJ                             u
EDUC ATON/NASLAND  HUM,AN  /anrORCEs PLANNIeN
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C3 uenrl Sarogres UlonitgXl                                                                                                                                              lTtdo                             )   (oa
c'AFICA7TIONAND PR/MAN /RE   OURC S PLANNON/
FL   T N/FcA e 7709    n"ng LVCAO FReges   /E/SCJUFE   )LM/F"                      O      5    5      5     10L g                          t/   
Hdca-  alPl-nnin
PRIMARY EDUCATION
®   Vocrer Orirn Colec ,?anJ                                                                                                                                     t     <                      +
iJ   NcgjP' riao/é d ôt Shap                    )                                                                                                             0                       TKtLOMEIERs
Pedogagical InstTat 14             _s..'oT ttRVl                                                                                                                                                   '
EUCATION  PROJECTS DIRECTORATE                                        o-s5055eekeJ                                                                                                                         O
Main R.ad,                A  Anfc-,Patae dFte
Ch-a,i de F-u
® Regiana.l Capitain



