OFFICIAL
DOCU M ENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1342 GH
Project Agreement
(Water Supply, Technical Assistance
and Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Dated      &2, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1342 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   ,26             198 3, be-
tween INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN'  ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION (here-
inafter called GWSC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eleven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,800,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GWSC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS GWSC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GWSC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices; and
(b) GWSC shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1984, prepare
and furnish to the Bank a plan for the execution of Part IV of
the Project, such plan to include a map delineating the location
of   existing  public   standpipes,  their   working   condition,


﻿-2-
operational status and the proposed location of the additional
public standpipes to be installed under the Project; and (ii)
carry out Part IV according to a plan and a timetable
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. GWSC shall: (a) employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, to assist
GWSC in: (i) the execution of the Management Improvement Program
Study; (ii) the preparation of design, procurement and supervi-
sion of the works included under Part III.1 of the Project; (iii)
the execution of Parts 111.2, 111.3 and IV of the Project; and
(b) assign not less than 3 senior members of its staff to work,
on a full time basis, with the experts referred to in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section.
Section 2.03. As part of the execution of Part I of the
Project, GWSC shall: (a) at all times, employ a General Manager,
a Financial Controller, a Commercial Manager, a Corporate Plan-
ning Manager and a Vehicle Workshop Superintendent, whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) employ such other experts, as shall be required to
carry out the recommendations of the Management Improvement
Program Study, such experts to have experience, qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 2.04. GSWC shall:
(a) carry out the Management Improvement Program Study
under terms of reference and according to a timetable, satisfac-
tory to the Association;
(b) review with the Borrower and the Association the pre-
liminary recommendations of such study; and
(c) carry out such recommendations which are satisfactory
to the Borrower, the Association and GWSC in a manner and accord-
ing to a timetable satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed


﻿- 3 -
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) GWSC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by GWSC to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, GWSC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to GWSC by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.07. (a) GWSC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) GWSC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by GWSC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish the description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.


﻿(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between GWSC and the
Association, GWSC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by GWSC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.08. (a) GWSC shall, at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   WSC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by GWSC of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.09. GWSC undertakes to: (a) identify and value the
fixed assets of ATMA not later than June 30, 1984; (b) establish
before December 31, 1984, and thereafter maintain, a methodology
for the annual evaluation of ATMA's assets in the light of the
recommendations of the Management Improvement Program Study; and
(c) starting not later than December 31, 1984, annually revalue
ATMA's assets in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association set-up in accordance with such methodology.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GWSC
Section 3.01. GWSC shall at all times carry on its
operations under qualified and experienced managerial staff, with
sufficient supporting staff, in accordance with appropriate
management, public utility and financial practices.
Section 3.02. GWSC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against the risks and in the amounts
which will be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. GWSC shall adequately maintain the works,
installations, vehicles and equipment used in GWSC's operations
and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all
in  accordance   with  appropriate   engineering  and  management
practices.
Section 3.04. GWSC shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its right to carry on its operations, including
the Project, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire and
retain such land, interest in land and properties, and to
acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises
and other rights, as may be necessary or useful for carrying on
its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. GWSC shall maintain, for its water supply and
sewerage operations, separate and consolidated records, adequate
to reflect and identify in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and finan-
cial condition and, in addition, separately, the operations and
financial condition of ATMA.
Section 4.02. GWSC shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements, including separate accounts and financial state-
ments for ATMA (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
except in the case of fiscal years 1981 and 1982; (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, such documentation in respect of fiscal years 1981 and
1982, to be furnished to the Association not later than March 31,
1983, and September 30, 1983, respectively; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of GWSC and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:


﻿- 6 -
(a) GWSC shall, from time to time, take or cause to be
taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments of the structure or levels of its water SL p1.y and sewerage
tariffs) as shall be required to produce, for e.    of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on Decembe-L 31, 1984, an
annual return for ATMA of not less than 3% of the average current
net value of ATMA's fixed assets in operation.
(b) Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, GWSC
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by GWSC for ATMA
on a basis satisfactory to the -Association, review the adequacy
of its tariffs to produce the annual return for the current
fiscal year and the next following fiscal year, required under
paragraph (a), and shall furnish to the Association the results
of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shall show that ATMA would not earn
the annual return required under paragraph (a) in the course of
ATMA's fiscal year covered by such review, GWSC shall promptly
take all the necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order
to meet the requirements set forth in such paragraph (a).
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
ATMA's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of ATMA's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The   term  "net  operating  income" means    gross
revenues from all sources related to ATMA's water
and sewerage operations less all expenses related
to ATMA's water and sewerage operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes or
any payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of
not less than 3% per annum of the average current
gross value of ATMA's fixed assets in operation.
Interest and other charges on debt shall not be
deducted from gross revenues.
(iii) The term "current net value of ATMA's fixed assets
in operation" mea:ns the gross value of ATMA's


﻿- 7 -
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation and revaluation
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GSWC shall not incur any debt for ATMA unless a reasonable
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ATMA shows that the
projected internal cash generation of ATMA for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
times the projected debt service of GWSC for ATMA in such year on
all GWSC debt for ATMA including the debt to be incurred. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by GWSC for ATMA matur-
ing more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) on the date of
execution and delivery of the agreement or other instrument pro-
viding for such debt; and (ii) in the case of guarantee of debt,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
executed and delivered;
(c) "GSWC debt for ATMA" means the total amount of GWSC's
debt for ATMA;
(d) "internal cash generation of ATMA" means gross income
of ATMA from all sources less all operating and administrative
expenses of ATMA, and a reasonable share of GWSC headquarters
expenditure,. excluding depreciation of assets and interest and
other charges on debt;
(e) "debt service" means the aggregate amount of amortiza-
tion (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(f) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepar-
ed by GWSC for ATMA for the fiscal year in which the debt in
question is to be incurred, which both the Association and GWSC
accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified
GWSC of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has or may reasonably be expected


﻿- 8 -
in the future to have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of ATMA.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GWSC shall, from time to time take, or cause to be taken,
all such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its water and sewerage tariffs) as
shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1984, gross revenues from
all sources equivalent to not less than 80% of total operating
expenses of its headquarters, operating divisions and regions.
(b) Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, GWSC
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by GWSC on a
basis satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in the preceding para-
graph (a) for the current and next following fiscal year, and
shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon
its completion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "gross revenues from all sources" means
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
water and sewerage operations, consumer deposits
and cash consumer contributions in aid of con-
struction, net non-operating income and any reduc-
tions in non-cash working capital; and
(ii) The term "totl operating expenses" means the sum
of all expenses related to water and sewerage
operations, including maintenance and administra-
tion, interest and other charges on debt (exclud-
ing capitalized interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including sinking
fund payments, if any), all taxes or payments in
lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in net working
capital other than cash, and any other cash out-
flows other than capital expenditures related to
GWSC's water and sewerage operations.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GWSC shall maintain, in respect of all its operating
divisions and regions, a ratio of consolidated current assets to


﻿- 9 -
consolidated current liabilities of not less than one to one. For
purposes of this Section:
(a)  "current assets" means cash, accounts receivable due
within twelve months, marketable securities, pre-paid expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next twelve
months following the date in which such pre-paid expenses were
made, and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted into cash within twelve months;
(b) "current liabilities" means accounts payable within
twelve months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends,
bonuses and all other liabilities (including debt) which will
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing
be called for payment pursuant to their terms, within twelve
months; and
(c) "consolidated current assets" and "consolidated current
liabilities" mean the aggregate of current assets and current
liabilities of GWSC with respect to all its operating divisions
after eliminating all inter-agency items and all other items
which are to be eliminated in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective..
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GWSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreerment,,
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph


﻿- 10 -
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
GWSC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in  full   force   and  effect   notwithstanding  any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GWSC:
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
P.O. Box M194
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
DIRWAT
Accra


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of GWSC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and GWSC shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Association in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the GWSC shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and civil works in question. GWSC shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or civil works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works of the Project shall be prequalified
as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to GWSC of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All works for installation of public standpipes may be
carried out under contracts procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Association, or on force account by GWSC's
services.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $100,000 but less than $250,000, may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, locally advertised,
conducted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided, however, that the total cost of the items
so procured shall not, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,250,000.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured on the basis of
negotiated purchases after solicitation of price quotations from
at least three established and reliable suppliers, provided,
however, that the total cost of the items so procured shall not,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, exceed in the
aggregate equivalent of $500,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. GWSC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the GWSC to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and GWSC shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts included under paragraph B.1
hereof and all other contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 14 -
(a) Before bids are invited, GWSC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and 'evaluated, the GWSC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform GWSC and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) One original and one copy of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, one original and one copy of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request, shall be furnished to the Association, promptly
after its execution of such contract and prior to delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform


﻿- 15 -
the Borrower or GWSC, as the case may require, and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower or GWSC, as the
case may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform the Borrower or GWSC, as the case may require,
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


