CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 705 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Second Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
DATED AUGUST 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 705 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Second Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NIGrZIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
DATED AUGUST 28, 1970


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 1970 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED (hereinafter
called the Borrower), a company incorporated and existing under the laws of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to the Loan Agreement accept all the provisions
of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan, made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(b)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan, or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment, in accordance with and as provided in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement;
(c)   "Private Investment Enterprise" means an Investment Enterprise which
is controlled by private investors;
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific project to be carried out by
an Investment Enterprise, as approved, or in respect of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account shall have been authorized, by the Bank pursuant to Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿4
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project;
(f)   "Nigerian Pound" and the letters "fN" mean currency of the
Guarantor;
(g)   "Memorandum and Articles" means the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Borrower dated January 22, 1964, and as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(h)   "Policy Statement" means the investment and operational policies and
procedures adopted by the Borrower's Board of Directors on January 22, 1964,
as amended up to July 1, 1970, and as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(i)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned, or which is
effectively controlled, by the Borrower or by any one or more of the subsidiaries
of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries;
(j)   "Government    Agreements"     means    the    agreements   of
January 22, 1964 and September 3, 1966, between the Guarantor and the
Borrower providing for loans by the Guarantor to the Borrower, and any other
agreements between the Guarantor and the Borrower providing for loans or advances
by the Guarantor to the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the parties thereto and the Bank;
(k)   "First  Loan  Agreement"   means   the  loan  agreement dated
March 5, 1969 between the Bank and the Borrower;
(1)   "Iconsec" means ICON    Securities Limited, a subsidiary of the
Borrower; and
(m) "IconNominees" means IconNominees Limited, a subsidiary of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The Bank shall open a Loan Account on its books in the
name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of the Loan.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as provided
in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)
of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account:
(G)        amounts expended for the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for carrying out the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested; and
(ii)       if the Bank shall so agree, such amounts as shall be required
to meet payments to be made for the reasonable cost of such
goods and services.
(b)  No amount shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
an Investment Project unless it shall have been approved by the Bank, provided,
however, that such withdrawals may be made in respect of sub-loans for Investment
Projects of Private Investment Enterprises authorized by the Bank for financing
hereunder in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement,
but only up to an amount in respect of each such Investment Project which,
together with any amount or amounts previously approved or authorized for
withdrawal for such Investment Project under the Loan Agreement, or for the
same project under any loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower and
not repaid, shall not exceed the equivalent of $200,000 and, in respect of all such
Investment Projects, the equivalent of $2,500,000 in the aggregate, or in each case,
of such other limit as shall from time to time be determined by the Bank.
(c)  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, and subject
to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, no withdrawals shall
be made on account of expenditures made by any Investment Enterprise for any
Investment Project subject to the Bank's approval more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have first received in respect of such Investment
Project the application required under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement or, in
the case of any other Investment Project, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received the description thereof pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(d)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree no withdrawals shall be made
from the Loan Account until all amounts under the First Loan Agreement shall
have been fully withdrawn or committed.


﻿6
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven per cent
(7%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time as determined
by the Bank and as reasonably required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans and
investments in respect of which withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have
been approved or authorized pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and (ii)
take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions,
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
except that repayment due hereunder shall be made on January 1 and July 1
in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayments and redemption, if required.
(b)   The amorti7ation schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Bank of such Investment Project or of authorization by the Bank
to make withdrawals fiom the Loan Account in respect of such Investment Project,
and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal, semi-annual,
or more frequent, payments of principal.
Section 2.08. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment
date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or
in any amendment thereof under Section 2.07 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or investment, or


﻿7
part thereof, and not theretofore repaid to the Bank. The policy stated in Section
3.05 (c) of the General Conditions with respect to premiums shall apply to any
such repayment.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to payment of the maturity or maturities
of the principal amount of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the amounts
of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii)
in the case of the disposition of an investment, to the pro rata payment of the
unpaid amounts of the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting the amount
of such investment.
(c)   The first sentence of Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions shall
not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project; Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Loan is granted is the financing
by the Borrower of economic development in Nigeria by providing loans to, and
making investments in, enterprises in Nigeria for productive purposes for specific
development projects, all in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower as therein set forth and
according to the principles set forth in the Policy Statement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of sub-loans and investments in
Investment Enterprises other than Private Investment Enterprises shall not exceed
25% of the amount of the Loan.
Section 3.02. (a) When submitting an Investment Project to the Bank for
approval pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of such Investment Project (including a brief description of the costs
thereof proposed to be met out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the terms and
conditions of the sub-loan to or investment in the Investment Enterprise, including
the schedule of amortization proposed therefor, a financial and economic analysis
thereof and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a sub-loan or an investment for an Investment
Project not requiring approval by the Bank shall contain a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description


﻿8
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan)
for which such authorization is requested, a summary economic analysis thereof,
and of the terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment for such Investment
Project, including the schedule of amortization of such sub-loan or the proposed
amortization schedule applicable for such investment.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
for approval of Investment Projects pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement shall
be submitted on or before December 31, 1972.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
Section 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time request, the Borrower
shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan
as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall from time to time, as required, notify the
Bank in writing of the person or persons designated by it as its authorized
representatives for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement, and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with the Memorandum
and Articles and the Policy Statement.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written agreement or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Borrower and rights which the Bank shall deem


﻿9
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, including, in the case of any such
sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of any such
investment: (i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Bank and the Borrower to inspect such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents: (iv) the
right to require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Bank and
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) the right of the Borrower to suspend and terminate access by the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement with
the Borrower.
(c)   The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall
be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Nigerian Pound) used
in its operations.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the
sub-loans, the investments, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower. The Borrower shall enable
the Bank's representatives to examine such records.


﻿10
(c)   The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than three months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements for
such year and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
and (iv) make applicable to the 1consec and IconNominees and to such other
subsidiaries as the Bank shall specify the foregoing provisions of this Section to
the extent reasonably required my the Bank.
Section 5.04. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
the Borrower shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower (including the
adequacy of amounts appropriated to its reserves) and its subsidiaries, and any
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.05. The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (a) if the Borrower or any subsidiary shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect; and (b) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary other than under (a) above, as security for any
debt, the Borrower shall grant to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿Section 5.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of any such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and of all subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and of all subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower or by a subsidiary.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date it is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into, but shall be counted only
to the extent that the underlying debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terns of Nigerian Pounds debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, legally obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   The term  "consolidated debt of the Borrower and of all subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and of all subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the
Borrower or to any other subsidiary, and excluding debt referred to in paragraph
(e) (ii) of this Section.
(e)   The term   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and of
all subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired capital, surplus
and free reserves of the Borrower and of all subsidiaries after excluding such items
of capital, surplus and reserves as shall represent equity interests of the Borrower
in any such subsidiary or of any such subsidiary in the Borrower or any other
such subsidiary and (ii) the amount of the advance under the Government
Agreement dated January 22, 1964, repayable after the latest of the dates of all
outstanding maturities of the sub-loans, the schedules of amortization for
investments, the loans made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the loan
under the First Loan Agreement and the schedules of amortization for the
investments made out of such proceeds.


﻿12
Section 5.07. Subject to such exemptions as shall be conferred by the
provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement or otherwise,
the Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the
laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement, or the Bonds, or the payment of principal, interest or other charges
thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply
to taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank
when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of
the Guarantor.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall not without the prior approval of the Bank
(a) make a change in its Policy Statement (as of the date of this Loan Agreement);
(b) sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of its property and assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; or (c) establish, acquire or voluntarily take over
any subsidiary.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations under
the Government Agreements and, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any provision
of, any Government Agreement.
Section 5.11. Without the prior approval of the Bank, the Borrower shall
make no repayment in advance of maturity in respect of the Government
Agreements.
Section 5.12. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries, if any, and
each of the subsidiaries established, acquired or voluntarily taken over, after the
date of the Loan Agreement, if any, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the extent
to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon each of such subsidiaries.


﻿13
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then, at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, together with the interest and other charges thereon, and upon any
such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement or ii, the Bonds
notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. The following additional events are specified for the purposes
of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan made to the Borrower
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance
with the terms thereof, have become due and payable in advance of
the agreed maturity thereof by reason of any default specified in the
agreement providing for any such loan or in any security representing
such loan;
(b)   an order shall have been made or a resolution shall have been passed
for the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(c)   the Memorandum and Articles shall have been changed without the
prior agreement of the Bank.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 7.02. The date of December 1, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿14
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank Limited
M & K House
96/102 Yakubu Gowon Street
P. 0. Box 2357
Lagos, Nigeria
Alternative address for cables:
Nidbank
Lagos
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Loan Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Simon Aldewereld
Vice President
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
BANK LIMITED
By /s / S. B. Daniyan
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 1973                                        70,000
July 1, 1973                                          195,000
January 1, 1974                                       295,000
July 1, 1974                                         405,000
January 1, 1975                                       505,000
July 1, 1975                                          525,000
January 1, 1976                                       545,000
July 1, 1976                                          565,000
January 1, 1977                                       585,000
July 1, 1977                                         600,000
January 1, 1978                                      620,000
July 1, 1978                                         650,000
January 1, 1979                                       675,000
July 1, 1979                                         695,000
January 1, 1980                                      720,000
July 1, 1980                                          755,000
January 1, 1981                                      655,000
July 1, 1981                                         465,000
January 1, 1982                                      315,000
July 1, 1982                                          160,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.08
(a) of this Agreement or on the redemption of any Bond prior to its maturity
pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                  Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1-1/4%
More than three years
but not more than six years
before maturity                                2-1/2%
More than six years
but not more than eleven years
before maturity                                   4%
More than eleven years
but not more than thirteen years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                   7%


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment and the application thereof in addition to, or
in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 and
in Section 8.15."
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 3.02 (c) of the Loan
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Loan Account in respect of any portion of the Loan
shall have been received by the Bank, or having been so received, shall have
been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."
(4)  Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is amended to read as follows:
"(d) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan Agreement,
the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or under any other loan agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank or any guarantee agreement between
the Guarantor and the Bank guaranteeing a loan to the Borrower, or under
any bond issued pursuant to any such agreement, and such default shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor."


