Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
c  R  - /5sy4'- xs
R11gt No. P-3920-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF T7E
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 137.7 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
--                                        January 7, 1985
Thns Imecmeat has a ve  cled dsbibutom and my be used by recipiemts iy in the pefoaae of
thei .dlW dudes. If cs embb may not otherwi  be disemed wathmt Woeld Dank amthoiatm..



CURRENCY E    V S
(As of January 3, 1985)
US$1.00           Rs 12.447
Rs 1.00        = US$0.0803
Rs 1 million = US$80,342
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report vere made at
US$1.00 Bs 11.00, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BNC    -   Bombay Municipal Corporation
BMK   -   Bombay Metropolitan Region
BNRD&  -   Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
CIDCO - City and Industrial Development Corporation
GOI    -   Government of India
GOM    -   Government of Maharashtra
KNC    -  Kalyan Municipal Corporation
MoH4A - Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority
MMW   -   Minis try of Works and Housing
NBMC   -   New Bombay Municipal Corporation
mc    -   Thana Municipal Corporation



FOR OFFIC" IAUSE ONLY
INDIA
BOHMLY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:               The Government of Maharashtra (GOM); the
Mabarashtra Housing and Area Development
Authority (MIADA); the City and Industrial
Development Corporation (CIDCO); the Bombay
Metropolitan Region Development Authority
(B3RDA); and the Municipal Corporations of
Bombay, Thana, Kalyan and the proposed New
Bombay corporation area.
Amount:                      SDR 137.7 million (US$138 million equivalent).
Terms:                       Standard.
Relending Terms:             India to GOM: As part of Central assistance
for State Development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
GOX to participatint agencies and Municipal
Corporations: US$136.2 million at 8.52 inter-
est per annum over 25 years including a
5 year grace period; US$1.8 million for
tecnnical assistance on a grant basis. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government of India.
Proiect Description:         (i)  Land Infrastructure Servicing Proxram.
The construction and financing of about
85,000 serviced residential, commercial and
small industrial plots, including community
facilities, core housing, and house expansion
loans on about 13 sites in the Bombay
Metropolitan Region benefitting about 500,000
people.
(ii) Slum UpRrading Program. Upgrading of
about 300 ha of slum areas, mostly in the
Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) area,
including the provision of tenure, improved
infrastructure, urban services, home improve-
ment loans and community facilities, benefit-
ting about 500,000 people.
This document has a nsticted distbuton and may be used by rcipents only in the performance
of ther official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
(iii) Local Government Finance.
Administration and Services. Equipment and
civil vorks for improving the maintenance of
roads, drains and services, and the collec-
tion and disposal of refuse in the Nunicipal
Corporation areas of Bombay, Thana, Kalyan
and the proposed New Bombay area benefitting
over one million people.
(iv) Technical Assistance. Trainint and
Equinment. To improve the capacity of the
project implementing and coordinating
agencies.
The project is large and a nmer of agencies
are involved in its implementation.
Consequently, considerable effort in planning
and monitoring its execution will be required
by BENDA, the project coordinating agency. A
number of measures have been taken to mini-
mize the risks of delay, including She
advance acquisition of about 70Z of the land
required for the infrastructure servicing
compouent, and the early provision of techni-
cal assistance to strengthen the
organization, management and accounting
capability of MEADM, the principal implement-
ing agency. Retroactive financing has been
provided for the first year of land prepara-
tion and for civil works for the infrastruc-
ture servicing component, while a detailed
program for multi-agency coordination has
been worked out for the execution of each
project component. The planning and coor-
dinating capacity of BERTA has also been
further strengthened. Consequently, the
timely completion of the project would appear
feasible.



-iii-
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Costs                    Local          Foreijn         Total
Land lnfrastructure
Servicing Program                  l'3.2            7.7            120.9
Slum Upgrading Program              ;2.6            1.4            34.0
Local Government Finauce
Administration and Services         14.7            3.7             18.4
Technical Assistance and Training    1.3            0.2             1.5
Design, Supervision and Management  17.0            1.5             18.5
-                                          178.8           14.5           193.3
Physical Contingencies              12.5            1.3             13.8
Price Contingencies                 45.9            3.7            49.6
Total Project Cost J               237.2           19.5           256.7
Financinz Plan:                                   (US$ Millions)
Local         Foreien          Total
IDA Credit                         118.5            19.5          138.0
GOW  Loans/Grants                   51.6             -              51.6
Down Payments                       67.1                           67.1
237.2           19.5           256.7
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
TDA FY           FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Anual             5.5   26.2   42.4   36.6   19.2    7.0    1.1
Cumulative        5.5   31.7   74.1  110.7  129.9  136.9  138.0
Rates of Return:       The averages for prototype land infrastructure
servicing and slum upgrading program sites are
*                            about 18Z and 31% respectively.
Appraisal Report:      No. 4794-IN dated January 4, 1985.
i/ Includes US$17.5 million of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOHEENDAIION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTITVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO IUDIA
FOR THE BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 137.7 million
(US$138 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
project designed to improve the provision of shelter and urban services in
the Bombay Metropolitan Region (EMR) and to strengthen State and local
institutions involved in urban development. The proceeds of the credit
would be channeled to the Government of Maharashtra (COX) in accordance
with the Government of India-s (GOI) standard terms and arrangements for
the financing of State development projects. GON will relend US$136.2
million of the credit to participating agencies and Municipal Corporations
in the BMR at 8.5% interest per annum over 25 years, including five years
of grace and grant them US$1.8 million for technical assistance. The
proposed relending rate of 8.5% is comparable with the current rates of
interest charged by financial institutions in India on loans for similar
purposes. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian
Economy - A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was
distributed to the Fxecutive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Backaround
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
750 million (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The
economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of
the labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an
adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities, espe-
cially those who own little or no land. Growth of value-added in
agriculture - 2.22 since 1950/51 - has been slower than growth of
industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a result, there has been a
gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from
52% in 1950/51 to about 33Z in 1981/82, while the share of industry rose
from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough
to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels.
As a result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades,
averaging about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
l/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the National Agricultural Extension Project
(No.P-3876-IN), dated September 6, 19E4.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita
income rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite
the large population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been
able to eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through
significant improvements in agricultural production. Savings and invest-
ment have increased markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings
rate more than doubled from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.71 in
1983/84, while the gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5Z of GDP
to 24.8% in 1983184. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on
current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20X was reached during the early 1960g.
Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment. Ezternal
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3Z of GDP and averaging below 1Z for the past
five years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3X of GDP,
and presently stands at 2.1Z.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged omly 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growtb of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to mid-
1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly con-
stant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.31 per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain
output. As a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and
industrial value-added substantially exceeded the historical 30-year
trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3Z, 3.3% and 8.1X, respectively, during
the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined vith a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp
fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a
relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also
emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These setbacks
coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down
a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability vith an
overall growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of
the second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to
1982/83), GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two
recovery years (from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - sub-
stantially higher than India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued
rapid economic growth has resulted from a development strategy which



-3-
includes higher investment levels and liberalized policies on imports,
industrial licensing, prices, and comercial borrowing. These policies,
by easing constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic
cosmodities, were a determining factor in the improved performance of the
economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement in
performance, combined vith a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82
and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The
growth rate of wholesale prices declined from over 182 in 1980/81 to only
2.6Z in 1982/83, but rose to over 9X in 1983184, mainly due to the effect
of the 1982/83 drought on food prices. Further improvements in the policy
euvironment will be required to maintain these higher levels of economic
*           growth and investment without putting undue pressure on the balance of
payments or reviving inflationary expectations.
8.      Economic grovth in the early 19809 has not been steady, mainly
because of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during
the period. In 1960/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered
from the 1979 drought, with real GDP groving by 7.6Z and 5.32,
respectively. While industrial output expanded by 42 in 1980/81 and 8.6Z
in 1981/82, recovery vas particularly robust in agriculture where normal
weather helped output to rise by more than 15X and 5.5%, respectively.
The supply of power, coal, and rail transport, already improved in
1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82, recording growth rates of about
10X, 9.6Z and 12.5%, respectively. This overall improvement in the Indian
economy was halted in 1902/83 by a severe drought in mid-1982 which
reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP growth rate to
1.82, and put further strains on the already difficult balance of payments
and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of various
economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated
the otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy
recovered in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by
about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural productioa growth in the 92-10X range
and industrial growth of 4.52. The ma-3r factors contributing to the good
economic performance during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined
with adequate agricultural policies and programs, and satiefactory perfor-
mance of the coal and transport sectors. The power secror, however,
emerged again as a constraint on hig1er growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response
to the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of
*           irrigation.  Overall foodgrain production rose by 102-12Z over the pre-
vious year, reaching a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial
increase over the previous peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected
for weather variations, foodgrain production continues to grow at a. trend
of 2.6Z per annum--sufficient to maintain a broad balance between suvply
and steadily increasing domestic demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains
delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer supplies
or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thu:, adequate
management of foodgrain stocks and programs to expand irrigation,
strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural
inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mxzed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half



-4-
of the year but also due to a failure to maintain the Iroductivity gains
of 1980-82. Electricity generation grev only by about 3.7Z due to low
reservoir water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the
commissioning of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization
in thermal plants. Aa a result, power generation was about 11.51 below
requirements and constituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key
industries which were adversely affected by pover constraints included
steel, fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve performance in the power
sector, the Government recently increased incentives for higher labor and
management productivity in thermal plants. Railway freight traffic,
measured in ton-kma, grew by only 0.5X in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish
demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5Z in 1983/8" reaching 139
million tons. When combined with stocks already available this level of
production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand growth.
Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had the
pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these
key sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement
programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource
surplus in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap
between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels during the late 1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1Z of GDP in
1980-84. India's gross national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP
in the last four years, is high by any standard, particularly considering
India's low income and the large proportion of its population below the
poverty line. The scope for a substantial increase in the savings rate is
therefore quite limited. If India is to maintain investment at about 251
of GDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional domestic
resources particularly in the public sector. Future increases in savings
will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more
efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3%
of GDP to 1.5x-1.81, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the
late 1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from
1976/77 to 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1Z
of GDP during 1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to
these relatively larger current account deficits. First, the terms of
trade deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price
increases and continued to move against India during the first three years
of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial
inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts
fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting slower development
activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher levels of
foreign debt increased. Faced with -evere infrastructural constraints and
a deterioration in its balance of payments, India initiated an adjustment
program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its historical
level of 3.61 to 5.21 while adjusting the country's external balance to
the adverse price developments in the world markets. The main elements of
this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are export
promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implementa-



-5-
tion of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement
toward a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with
access to inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency,
improved technology and capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the
reduction in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9
billion in 1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import
liberalization. Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and
petroleum products, metals and fertilizers more than offset the substan-
tial increase in "other" imports.  These "other" imports consist mainly of
industrial imports and capital goods which historically have been in
chronic short supply and which are of critical importance to capacity
utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and expansion. A
major factor in the decline of the trade deficit vas the lower net import
bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.4
billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil development program
that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled
about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the balance
of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's development
and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels
of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need
external capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable
future, given the low per capita income level in the country, the already
high savings rate, and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a
growing need for external capital inflows and stagnation in the
availability of concessional assistance, India decided at the start of the
Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and comercial banks to substantial levels. In the period covering
the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the
Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India borrowed sig-
nificant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period
1980-84, India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million
and suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrow-
ing has been used for specific development projects in the public and
private sector (mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel,
power, aluminum and shipping). India's favorable debt service position
and the nature of its borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of
direct balance of payments support, enabled it to tap commercial capital
markets at favorable spreads. This larger commercial borrowing and trans-
fer of funds under the arrangement witb the I1F has stemmed the use of
foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months of
import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it never-



-6-
theless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure,
capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods.
Basic infrastructure - irrigation, railways, telecomunications, paver,
roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there
is considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India also has a wide range of institu-
tions capable of fostering development and is well-endowed with human
resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms
of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also
gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to for-
eign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan vhich vill
lay down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is
expected to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where economi-
cally justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
Sixth Plan performance has been encouraging, with aggregate real invest-
ment projected to be about 30% higher than in the period 1975-80-a
creditable performance indeed. The Sixth Plan expenditure targets,
however, vill not be fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public
sector will fall short of the financing requirements of planned public
investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be about 7Z
below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment being
5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20Z lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the
performance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of
the State Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely
to reach about 80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms,
while the States' will probably achieve only about 502 of their targets,
due principally to shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key
sectors such as power, transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a
consequence of real investment shortfalls relative to original Plan
allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's
capital formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7Z of
GDP in 1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for
future income growth, but returns to investment have so far been rela-
tively low.  Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has
been needed to build up basic infrastructure services which have
inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope to reduce
capital-output ratios through improvements in efficiency. As discussed in
greater detail in our recent economic reports, performance in the basic
service sectors can be improved through better planning and management,
thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout
the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are
vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement,
this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned
capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy
will be vital for sustained growth.



-7-
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development
program backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the
program has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels
running vell ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983,
resources for exploration and development vere raised by successive price
increases for domestic crude and products. While the gap betveen domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence
on oil imports dropped from 63S of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in
1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about 33Z of consumption by
1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploration activity, combined
with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields, offers
much encouragement for India's longer-term energy prospects.  At the same
time, the increases in domestic petLoleum priceo have helped encourage
conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than
in the past. This will require the continuation of the current develop-
ment strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion, public
finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in
infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.
In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing, includ-
ing an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of such a grovth strategy.
However, an important element in providing India with the capacity to
adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assistance since
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development dnd basic infrastructure.
Although India is currently in a position to increase borroving on commer-
cial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
Nevertheless, with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove
constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of both foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating
that it can sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.01 per annum than to the
long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. If the rate of population growth can be
brought to below 2.0Z per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling
of the trend rete of growth of per capita income of 1.4% per annum.
Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to the
prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty under'ine the
need to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated
there was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained
about 2.2% per annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fer-
tility rates. The population growth rate failed to decline in the past
decade due to a reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase in
life expectancy, reflecting larger availability of food and health
services. While this is a welcome development, it implies a greater
strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad range of
activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the
Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in



-8-
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979180 level of about 23%
to over 35% by 1984185. The GCovernment is reviewing its population policy
for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to retain the
emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education and
literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.    Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
and social policy. More than one-third of the vorldCs poor live in Iudia,
and about 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of land-
less laborers and small farmers. About 51Z of the rural population and
40Z of the urban population subsist below the poverty line. Significaut
reductions in poverty will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic
growth, particularly in agriculture, combined with effective implemeta-
tion of poverty alleviation programs. India-s poverty alleviation
strategy appropriately recognizes that production-oriented programs, which
aim at accelerating the overall pace of economic growth, and poverty
alleviation programs, targetted at those least able to participate in the
general growth of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing rather than
substituting for each other. Major poverty programs operating on a
nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program (NIP), the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Progran (AMEP). The IRDP and JEEP are targeted programs aimed
at increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the trausfer
of productive assets or direct employment. The NEP, aims at broadening
the provision of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance
the human capital of the poor and improve living standards. These
programs represent a vitally important comitment of the Government to
address the needs of the poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in
India, combined with the inherent difficulties in implementing poverty
progrms in any country, imply the need for continued efforts to enhance
the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BAR  GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.    Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to ITdia totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million
bas been repaid, and US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of
September, 30, 1984. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current
fiscal year through September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, repre-
senting a decrease of about 40 percent over the same period last year.
Annex II contains a sumary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which US$34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A sunuary statement of IFC
disbursements as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II
(page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase



-9-
agricultural productivity, and efforts to moprove the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to fanmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlexecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects.  The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastruc-
ture projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and con-
sonwnt with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in
the approach being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, h! v priority will coutinue to be given to GOI's agricultural
program. While India has made significant progress in agriculture,
productivity growth will have to be sustained to improve the balance
between food demand and supply and to contribute to poverty alleviation
and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to support irrigation,
fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural extension and
=redit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency
and faster developmeut of the industrial sector, increased assistance will
be provided for industrial development. Third, the reviev of performance
under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be
given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous bydrocarbon
resources. Acco--dingly the Bank Group will continue to support the
development of the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to
alleviate critical shortages vhich constrain output in both agricultural
and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development and other
GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also continue in
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering
*         birt.i and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-
1970s. Hovever, India continues to require a substantial level of foreign
assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade
environment, and to sustain the relatively higher irvestment and growth
rates achieved during the first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the
past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include
the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital
goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be
small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-
priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.



-10-
27-       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on coucessional terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to Tndia in the past
was provided from IDA. However, IDA lending to India is decliuing from a
peak of US$1.6 billion in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related
to IDA.  The amount of IDA funds availab1s to India is likely to remain
small in relation to India-s needs for external support. Thus, this
requirement for additional assistance will have to be met. in part,
through larger Bank lending. Given its development prospects and
policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA
assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth
in prodtctive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population
growth should result in continued economic grovth and improvement in the
balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks, Tndia's external payments
position is still manageable. The ratio of India-s debt service to the
level of its total current account vas about 12.9% in 1983184. Over the
next several years this ratio is projected to rise to around 20S and
remain around that level through 1995196. As of March 31, 1984, outstand-
ing loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,884 million, of which
US$2,021 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$1,863 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969170, the
Bank Group accounted for 34Z of total co.itments, 13% of gross
disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 62Z, 33Z and
37Z, respectively, in 1983184. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion,
of which the Bank Group's share was US$9.6 billion or 36% (UDW's US$7.8
billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). In 1983184, about 19.0Z of India's
total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR IN INDIA AND THE BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION (IBM)
29.    Although India is primarily an agricultural countrv with about 76%
of its population (approximately 684 million, 1981 census) living in rural
areas, the country is becoming increasingly urbanized.  Its urban popula-
tion (about 156 million) has grown by 3.9Z per annum, compared with 1.7%
per annum for its rural population over the 1971-81 period, resulting in
about 6.1 million more people being added to urban areas every year. If
the present trend continues, half of India's population growth during the
next two decades will be in urban areas. Approximately 40% of urban
households throughout the country have monthly incomes below the absolute
poverty threshold (Rs 520 in 1980). The large growth in urban population
on top of already acute urban poverty is straining the capacities of city
administrations throughout India to deliver, maintain and finance essen-
tial urban services and to supply serviced land.
30.     ihile primary responsibility for the fornulation and implementa-
tion of urban development programs in India rests with state governments



-11-
and local bodies, the overall development of policies and strategies is
influenced by objectives laid down in the national five-year plans. The
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) stresses the need for providing affordable
shelter, safe vater supply and adequate sanitation to the urban poor, and
for modifying existing by-lavs, land use controls and minimum plot size
requirements to achieve these ends.
31.     In the early 1970's, GOI began to fund directly urban projects in
the larger metropolitan cities, beginning with Calcutta.  Similar efforts
in Bombay and Madras followed. Also, a centrally funded Minimum Needs
Program was introduced under the Fifth Five-Year Plan which emphasised
environmental improvements in many urban slums. However, costs were not
recovered under this Program, tenure vas not provided, and local govern-
ment management and financial capacity to maintain and service improved
neighborhoods was not addressed. Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, a
centrally funded Program for Integrated Development of Small and Medium
Towns is financing land development, market centers and traffic and tran-
sportation schemes in towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants.
32.     Urban policies and programs, including centrally funded urban
programs and a number of technical assistance and training prograsa, are
directed at the national level by the Ministry of Works and Housing (MMW)
and its agencies. The agencies of MOVE include the Town and Country
Planning Organization, the National Building Organization, and the Public
Health Engineering and Environment Organization. In addition, the MOW is
the principal sponsor of the National Institute of Urban Affairs, sn
autonomous organization, and it has supervisory responsibility over the
Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Ltd., a semi-autonomous
Government of India Corporation which provides much of the capital for
State housing and development authorities.
33.     Urban Trends in Maharashtra and the MM. Maharsshtra is the third
largest State in India covering a total land area of approximately
308,000 sq. km, with a population of about 63 million (1981 Census). The
State has the third highest per capita income (about Rs 2,519 in 1981182)
after the States of Punjab and Haryana; it ranks first in India in large
and smaliscale industry and in the number of its population gainfully
employed. Maharashtra is the most urbanized State in India.  In 1981>
approximately 35% of its population was living in urban areas, of which
about 70Z was concentrated in the Bombav Metropolitan Region (DMR) and in
10 medium-sized cities. But despite its generally high level of wealth
and income, about 48% of Hbharashtra's population still have incomes below
the poverty line.
34.     Naharashtra's position as the most industrialized and urbanized
State in India is due largely to the development of the BRM. With an
estimated 10.5 million population (1983) spread over a 4,370 km2 planning
area, the BNl is India's largest metropolitan area. The BMM generates
about 10X of factory employment and manufacturing value added in India,
and about 25% of India's income tax revenue. The growth of its organized
sector in recent years has generated about 51,000 jobs annually.
Approximately 84% of the BMR's population is located in the Bombay
Municipal Corporation (BHC) area (437 km2), with the balance spread over
the recently established municipal corporation areas of Thana (149 km2),
Kalyan (400 km2) and the proposed New Bombay corporation area (330 km2).



-12-
Apart from the BHC area, which has a 3.2% per annum population growth
rate, the growth rate in the Thnaa and Kalyan Municipal Corporation areas
and in the proposed New Bombay area has averaged 5Z per annum or more over
the last two decades. With substantial industrial development con-
centrated in the Thana-Belapur industrial estate in New Bombay and the
potential for further industrial and commercial growth in the cities of
Thana and Ra'yan, BM's population is projected to reach about 13 million
by 1991.
35.     GOM's Department of Urban Development has the primary respon-
sibility for development programning in urban areas throughout the State.
The Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BHRDA) under the
overall direction of COD's Urban Development Department, is responsible
for physical and investment planning in the RHR, as well as for the
regulation of land use. Under the policy guidance of BURDA, the implemen-
tation and management of specific urban projects in the BMR is the respon-
sibility of a number of central, state and local district agencies.
36.     The supply of serviced land and housing in the ENR is only about
35Z of its annual incremental household needs. The private and public
supply of housing, mostly apartments at costs ranging from Rs 30,000
(about US$2,700) to over Rs 100,000 (about US$9,000), is unaffordable to
at least 50S of the population, even though low income buyers of public
housing are heavily subsidized. Since 1974, slum improvement programs
under the State Minimum Needs Program have covered about 2 million people
in SNC slums on public land. These programs improved environmental condi-
tione marginally, but did not provide for security of tenure, adequate
cost recovery, maintenance and environmental services. The Bombay Housing
and Area Development Board which is presently responsible for slum
imrovement programs, also repairs and reconstructs old tenement buildings
in the BNC area, but because of controlled lov rentals and inadequate
maintenance contributes little to the stock of environmentally acceptable
shelter. Institutional finance for housing construction is largely sup-
plied by the Housing Development Finance Corporation and the Maharashtra
Cooperative Housing Society. Their programs, however, are small in rela-
tion to current needs for shelter.
37.     The GOI Urban Land Ceiling Act of 1976 was passed to facilitate
the acquisition of undeveloped private land in urban areas to assist in
providing low income shelter needs. However, implementation of the Act
has been delayed on account of court actions and the supply of marketable
DIR land has been severely constrained with the prices of available lots
rising beyond the reach of the majority of BDR households. Moreover, the
high standards imposed by Development Control and Building Regulations on
land development and housing construction are inappropriate to the needs
for serviced land for low income families.
38.     Furthermore, under the Bombay Rent Control Act of 1947, rental
values have been frozen at 1940 "Standard Rents" which are only a fraction
of current rental values. Consequently, owners have been left with no
legal means of obtaining adequate rents to enable them to maintain these
properties and earn a reasonable rate of return on investment, or of
regaining the use of their properties. As a result, investment in new
legal rental accommodation, particularly for lower income families is
minimal, vhile illegal rentals are highly inflated and coupled vith



-13-
insecurity of tenure. Additionally, since controlled rents are used as
the basis for the calculation of the property tax, local government
revenues from this source for the provision of urbau services to EnR's
rapidly expanding urban population, is severely restricted.
39.     Consequently, the provision of serviced land and housing has been
severely constrained and has become Bombay's most critical problem. About
50X of the population live without tenure and adequate services in hutment
areas under private and public ownership, or on the pavements. Another
10-152 are crowded (3-5 m2 of space per person) in decaying, environmen-
tally unacceptable, multi-story tenements (chawls) which, because of rent
control, can neither be maintained nor upgraded, despite the efforts of
the Bombay Rousing and Area Development Board. The land and housing
shortage in Bombay is worse than in most other major Indian metropolitan
areas.
40.     Bank Group Role and StratesM. Il  The Bank Group's strategy for
urban development in India has concentrated over the past decade on three
of India-s largest cities--Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay. The first Bank
Group-supported urban projects, in Calcutta and Madras, financed
integrated packages of urban services (i.e., sites and services, slum
upgrading, water supply, sanitation, and transport). Follow-up projects
in both cities have continued this pattern, although in Calcutta, three
general urban development projects have been supplemented by a project
focused on a specific sector in the urbMn area through the Calcutta Urban
Transport Project, vhich supports a program of investments and policy
ueasures designed to alleviate the critical transport deficiencies in the
city. In Bombay, such a sectoral approach has been followed from the
beginning, largely due to the strength of sectoral institutions and the
lack of a strong regional development author.ty to prepare and coordinate
a multi-sectoral project. Urban projects in Bombay have thus far focused
on transport and traffic management and water supply and sewage disposal.
In tne case of each of the Bank Group-supported urban projects, the
objective - which has been pursued with considerable success in
Bombay - has been not only to raise the level of urban services provided
to the population, but also to strengthen urban planning and service
delivery institutions, particularly those of local governments, and to
improve the use of available resources as well as local resource
mobilization.
1/ Bank Group-assisted urban development projects include: Calcutta
Urban Devolopment Project (Cr. 427-TN, approved in August 1973);
Madras Urban Development Project (Cr. 687-IN), approved in March
1977); Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN, approved
in December 1977); Second Madras Urban Development Project
(Cr. 1082-IN, approved in December 1980); Kanpur Urban Development
Project (Cr. 1185-IN, approved in October 1981); Third Calcutta Urban
Development Project (Cr. 1369-IN, approved in May 1983) and Madhya
Pradesh Urban Development Project (Ln. 2329-IN, approved June 1983).
Sector-specific projects in major Indian cities include: Bombay Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 390-IN); Second Bombay Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Cr. 842-IN); Bombay Urban Transport Project
(Ln. 1335-IN); and Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Cr. 1033-IN).



-14-
41.     All of the Bank-assisted urban projects in India to date heve
supported policy changes in urban investment programs as vell as institu-
tional improvements. Changes accomplished include: (i) design changes
(e.g., cost per household for land, infrastructure and shelter has been
reduced by some 75Z over previous programs); (ii) improved cost recovery
(e.g., interest rates increases); and (iii) the gradual shi:t of housing
construction and finance from the public to the private sector with the
public sector focusing on land aud infrastructure development.
Institutional strengthening has included improved municipal accounting,
financial management and maintenance and support for planning, coordina-
tion and performance evaluation by metropolitan region development
authorities.
42.    While the need for improving the management of India's major
metropolitan areas has not lessened, the scope of urban development
activities is nov being broadened to include medium cities, which coin-
cides with GOI's emphasis on the development of small and medium towns.
Thus, the experience gained in the major metropolitan areas is being used
to strengthen the management of medium-sized cities. Urban projects for
Kanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh and Indore, Ujjain and Raipur in
Madhya Pradesh represent the first steps in this direction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Backaround
43.    The proposed project was prepared by the Bombay Metropolitan
Regional Development Authority (BNRDA), Bombay Municipal Corporation
(EMC), City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), Maharashtra
Housing and Area Development Authority (HRADA) and the Government of
Maharashtra's (GOH) Department of Housing. It vas appraised in July 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in November/December 1984, with
a delegation representing the Government of India (GOI), coordinated by
Mr. C. K. Ramachandran, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs, GOI. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4794-IN, dated January
4, 1985, is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Proiect Objectives
4.4.    The proposed project forms a part of GON's Affordable Low Income
Shelter Program in the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BNR) for the period
1983184 through 1989/90. The overall objective of the Program is to
secure a better match between available resources of land, infrastructure
and funding from the private, cooperative and public sectors and the need
for environmentally acceptable shelter in the BMR, particularly for low
income families. Within this overall objective, the Program seeks to:
(i3 shift public investment from subsidized, high unit cost apartment
construction programs into programs focused primarily on the production of
larger numbers of residential, coumercial and small industry serviced
plots at much lower affordable unit costs, (ii) halt slum growth in the
BMR by about 1987 and subsequently reduce the absolute number of slum



-15-
households and (iii) explore vays and means of shifting private capital
into the production of legal affordable shelter.
45.     The proposed project has been designed to assist COX in achieving
its objectives. It would (a) support a three-fold increase in the annual
supply of affordable shelter in the BUR, particularly for low income
families thereby helping to significantly reduce the number of households
in illegal and/or environmentally unsound shelter; (b) help to substan-
*         tially improve local government financial and administrative capacity to
deliver and maintain services, particularly for low income families within
the jurisdictions of the new Municipal Corporation areas (NCa) of Thana,
Ralyan and the proposed New Bombay area; (c)  strengthen state and local
government institutions for planning, executing and replicating projects
in the problem-plagued shelter sector; (d) demonstrate that more effi-
cient and equitable land use planning and pricing policies, and more
appropriate design standards can result in a reduction in costs of shelter
investments, significant investment of private capital in low income
housing and full cost recovery of shelter provided through the public
sector, and finally, (e) direct a larger proportion of public and private
investment in land servicing and shelter construction into low coat units,
while providing large numbers of plots for higher income housing, com-
munity facilities, commercial and small industry use.
46.     During project preparation, a number of initiatives were taken
to facilitate project implementation. These included: (i) the restructur-
ing of BMGDM to enable better planning, coordination, and monitoring and
evaluation of BM1 development programs; (ii) the establishment of NCs for
the towns of Thana (September 1982) and Kalyan (September 1983) and action
to confer similar status on the Nev Bombay area (November 1983) to assist
in developing their capacity to manage, finAnce and maintain essential
services; and finally, (iii) the reorientation of existing Development
Control and Building Regulations to provide for more efficient and equi-
table land and infrastructure servicing for the public sector and agree-
ment to conduct a study of the ways and means by which Development Control
and Building and Regulations would be applied to provide a greater role to
the private sector in the supply of affordable low cost sites and service-
type plots to low income families.
47.     But more remains to be done.  Rent control and property tax reform
is essential to improve the maintenance of the existing stock of rental
housing in the EKR, encourage private sector participation in the provi-
sion of long-term rental housing, and increase local government resources
for the maintenance and delivery of essential environmental services. GON
has made appreciable progress in preparing the groundwork for bringing
about rent control reform over the last two years. Rent control reform is
also to be promoted as an important sectoral objective at the national
level during the period of the Seventh Plan (1985-90). The Approach Paper
to the Seventh Plan states that it would be necessary to adjust the laws
relating to rent control and land price control, to among other things,
encourage tenants to build houses for themselves, give incentives to
house-owners for maintenance and expansion of housing and simultaneously
enhance the receipts from property taxes.



-16-
Proiect Description
Land Infrastructure Servicing Prosram
48.     Under the project, about 700 ha would be developed on about 13
sites to provide about 85,000 serviced residential plots, including about
1,460 plots for apartment construction by cooperatives. The sites are
located in five sub-regions of the BMR within the MC areas of Bombay
(374 ha), Thana (77 ha), Kalyan (106 ha) and the proposed Nev Bombay MC
(145 ha).  All sites are located witbin about 5 km of commercial,
industrial and residential areas and would in most cases be connected to
existing water supply and severage systems within their Corporation areas.
Schemes will only be implemented on the selected list of sites, or such
other sites as may be satisfactory to the Association (See Schedule 2,
para. 2 of the Project Agreement).
49.     Emphasis will be on the provision of residential plots to very low
income households jf. Consequently, about 45 to 55Z of the plots would be
affordable to families with monthly household incomes of between US$23 and
US$57. A further 10 to 20X would be affordable to those with household
incomes of between US$57 and US$88 per month. Procedures for the selec-
tion of beneficiaries would ensure that each plot type would be reserved
for the target income groups. Plots for middle income households (up to
US$114 per month) would be sold at market prices, while larger plots for
higher income groups (above US$227 a month), cooperative society
apartments, and commercial and service industry plots would be auctioned.
50.     All beneficiaries would be provided with secure tenancy rights on
a 60 year renewable leasehold basis. Beneficiary selection criteria
including terms and conditions of sales and leases of these plots would as
agreed upon among GOI, GOM and the Association (see para. 8 of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement). All beneficiaries would be provided with
serviced plots. Additionally, core housing vould be provided on the low
income plot options varying from the provision of a squat pan, water point
and plinth for the lowest income (US$23-$57 per month) households to the
addition of bare side walls and a roof in row houses for households with
monthly incomes of about US$88. Optional core expansion loans would also
be available to the low income categories covered by the project (about
65Z of beneficiaries).
Slum Upgrading Prosram
51.     About 300 ha in about 200 slum hutment areas, mostly in the Bombay
Municipal Corporation (BMC) area affecting about 100,000 households,
numerous small shops and industries would be upgraded. Some 90X of the
slums are located on public land, and only 10X or so would need to be
1/  Households in the BMR are made up of very low-income groups with
incomes of Rs 250 (about US$23) to Rs 625 (about US$57) per month;
low-income groups with incomes of Rs 625 to Rs 880 (about TS$88) per
month; middle income groups Rs 880 to Rs 1,250 (about US$114) per
moatu and higher income groups with incomes of Rs 2,500 (about US$227)
per month and above.



-17-
acquired from private owners by NHM)A under the Land Acquisitiol or Urban
Land Ceiling Acts (See Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement). The slums
would be imprc-u:ed through the provision of water, sanitation, roads,
footpathe, drainage, street lightiug and landscaping. HBADA would make
optional home improvement loans available to occupants ranging from about
US$90 for the lowest income household to US$455 for the highest, at not
less than 12% interest per annum. Secure tenancy rights would be ensured
to beneficiaries through a 60 year renewable leasehold.
Local Government Finance. Administration and Ser-'  '
V         52.     BMC, TNC and KNC and the proposed New Bombay MC (NBMC) would be
responsible for the maintenance of water supply and sewage disposal
systems, roads, drains and solid waste collection and disposal services
including those generated under the project. In addition to user charges
paid for water supply and sewerage, beneficiaries would pay an affordable
monthly charge ranging from Rs 3 to Rs 10 per household covering about
302 of maintenance and service costs for the additional amenities to be
provided under the project. BNC would provide additional revenues to
cover the balance of costs from increased municipal taxes which are
already operative . To improve maintenance and environmental services,
funds would be provided to TMC for a maintenance workshop and to BMC, TMC,
INC and NBNC for equipment and civil works.
Training and Technical Assistance
53.     Technical assistance would be provided under the project to UHADA
and TMC in the design and implementation of organization, management and
financial systems. TEC would also receive technical assistance for the
review of existing Development Control and Building Regulations (see
para. 46). Expert advisors will be provided to assist BNMRD's Technical
Committee as well as the managers of TNC, KMC and NBMC (see para. 54).
The staff of implementing agencies will receive training in the organiza-
tion and management of urban systems, project preparation and financial
analysis. Training would also be provided for the staff involved in
implementing the management, accounting and development control systems.
Funds would also be made available for the provision of such other techni-
cal assistance and training as GOI, GOM and the Association may agree upon
during the course of project implementation.
Proiect Implementation
54.     BMRDA will be the project coordinating agency and will assist in
implementing the project along with MEADA, CIDCO, BNC, TMC, KNC and NBXC.
The BNRDA Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary of GOM will
be responsible for policy direction. In the context of the proposed
project GON reorganized BMRDA in July 1983, to improve its efficiency and
planning capability and clarify lines of responsibility. GOX also estab-
lished a Technical Committee (TC), chaired by the BXRDA Metropolitan
Commissioner and consisting of the Chief Engineers of MHADA, CIDCO, BMRDA
(Execution Division), BHC and other local government departments, with the
Chief of BMRDA's Planning Division as its Member Secretary. The TC has
responsibility for day-to-day coordination of the activities of the
various agencies involved in the project. To assist it in carrying out
its work, the TC will be provided with expert assistance on terms and



-18-
conditions satisfactory to the Association. This expert assistance vill
help to strengthen BNRDALs role in overall project management, including
monitoring and evaluation of physical and financial progress.
55.     The primary responsibility for the individual project components
will lie with the following agencies:
Land Infrastructure Servicing Program  -  MNADA, CIDCO and BHC
Slum Unaradins Protram                  - NEADA and BIC
Local Government Finance Administration
Services                                -  B1C, TMC, INC and NINC
Trainint and Technical Assistance       -  MRADM, BRD& and THC
Off-site Infrastructure                 -  BMC and TNC
Proiect Costs and Financing
56.     The total estimated cost of the project is about US$256.7 million,
including about US$19.5 million of foreign exchange costs and an estimated
US$17.5 million in taxes and duties. The project components, net of
contingencies, consist of a land infrastructure servicing program
(US$120.9 million), slum upgr;.ding program (US$34.0 million), local
government finance, administration and services (US$18.4 million), techni-
cal assistance and training (US$1.5 million) and design, supervision and
management (US$18.5 million). Physical Contingencies (US$13.8 million)
have been estimated at 10% of base costs for civil works. Price contin-
gencies of US$49.6 million have been added for local and foreign costs at
8X for fiscal year 1984/85; 9% for 1985/86 through 1987/88, 7.5 in 1988/89
and 6% in 1989/90. Approximately 468 man-months of consultant and expert
services, including about 7 man-months of foreign consultant services
vould be needed for the project (see para. 53).
57.     The proposed credit of US$138 million would finance about 58Z of
project costs net of taxes and duties. COM would provide a further
US$51.6 million in the form of loans and grants and the balance of about
US$67.1 million would be financed by beneficiary down payments on the
sales and leases of serviced plots under the project. The credit covers
1002 of foreign exchange costs of the project and about 58% of local costs
net of taxes and duties. The project would also provide retroactive
financing of up to US$7 million for expenditures incurred after January 1,
1984 on essential project related expenditures for consulting Services
and expert assistance to MNHDA, TNC and the ENRDA Technical Coumittee and
for site preparation (land filling and connected civil works) for the
Airoli and Charkop-Kandivalli sites to enable construction to commence in
a timely manner. COM will re-lend US$187.8 million equivalent, including
the proceeds of the credit, to the participating ageucies at an annual
interest rate of 8.5% for 25 years, inclusive of 5 years grace and provide
them with a US$1.8 million equivalent grant to meet the cost of consulting
services and training. Approximately 45% (about US$84.5 million) of the
principal repayments due to GON from the implementing agencies on the
funds on-lent would be credited to a revolving fund and used for financing
future projects in line with the objectives of the proposed project and



-19-
GON's Affordable Low-Income Shelter program.  (Bee para. 5 of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Diaburememt
58.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which item  would be
procured under the project. About Us$14.0 million, including
contingencies, would be spent for the procurement of plant and equipment
*         including vehicles and spares.  Of this amount, contracts totalling
US$8.4 million for packages of major iteus such as bulldosers and trout
end loaders would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurment.  In bid
evaluation, a preference margin of 15, or the current import duty
whichever is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers. Other con-
tracts for equipment and related spares totalling approzimately
US$4.5 million vould be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. These involve
numerous items (such as hand carts and maintenance tools) for which there
are a large number of Indian manufacturers.  They also include vehicles
and equipment for which locally available spare parts and maintenance are
important. The remaining equipment (approximately US$1.1 million) invol-
ves items of a specialized nature for which there are only a limited
number of suppliers and small amounts are involved (under US$100,000).
These items would be procured through normal comercial channels after
obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers.
59.     The total estimated cost of civil works contracts, including
contingencies, is US$194.6 million. This includes US$158.7 million for
the land infrastructure servicing program for which there would be about
110 contract packages for on-site infrastructure and core houses and about
80 such packages for land preparation and off-site infrastructure. The
average size of contract packages for blocks of about 1,000 plots each
would be about US$600,000 with a few larger contracts going up to about
US$1.1 million. The balance of US$35.9 million of civil works is for the
slum upgrading and the local government finance, administration and serv-
ices component of the project. There would be over 200 contract packages
involved and the value of the largest contract would be approximately
US$270,000. Due to the relatively small scale and value of individual
contract packages, their dispersion over a large number of project areas,
the labor intensive construction method and low cost tecbnology involved,
they would not be of interest to foreign bidders. These contracts would,
therefore, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally. The balance of the project costs would be for land
(US$6.7 million), recoverable loans for home expansion and improvement
(US$39.6 million) and technical assistance and training (US$1.8 million).
60.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against (a) 1002 of
foreign expenditures for directly imported plant and equipment, 100X of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured plant and equip-
ment procured through international competitive bidding, and 75% of expen-
ditures on plant, equipment and vehicles procured locally; (b) 50X of
expenditures on contracts for civil vorks; (c) 75% of expenditures on
loans made for home expansion and improvement; and (d) 1002 of expendi-
tures for technical assistance, training and related office equipmuent.
Disbursements for individual civil works contracts not exceeding



-20-
Rs 300,000 (about UBS27,300), for expenditures incurred on home expansion
and improvement loans, and for individual contracts for equipment not
exceeding Rs 150,000 (about US$13,600), will be made against statements of
expenditure, for which documentation would not be submitted to IDA but
retained locally for inspection during the course of project review
missions. All other disbursement claims would be fully documented.
Independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, would carry out annual audits
of all statements of expenditure.
Cost Recovery
61.     About 75Z of the total project costs would be directly recovered
from the beneficiaries. A further 24X would be recovered by BMC, TIMC, KMC
and the public utilities through property taxes, user charges and other
local government charges. The remaining 1% of the costs would go towards
payments for technical assistance and training for which there would be no
direct cost recovery. Interest charged to beneficiaries for loans for
serviced plots, home expansion and improvement loans, and slum upgrading
would be at not less than 12% per annum (Para. 10 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement). These rates are close to market rates and are
expected to be positive in real terms, since the average annual rate of
inflation over the project period is expected to range from 6 to 8%.
These rates are well above the rates of 5 to 10-1/2Z presently charged to
low income beneficiaries by MHADA in its conventional HUDCO financed
schemes.
62.     Recovery of the costs of plots under the land infrastructure
service program under the above terms would be through a system of dif-
ferential land pricing. The low prices charged for small plots designated
for lower-income households ($23-$80 household income per month) reflect
their lower servicing costs, less desirable location and limited develop-
ment potential. Larger residential plots, including plots for apartments,
which are more costly to service, in better locations and having a larger
potential for housing construction, would be marketed to middle and higher
income households (above US$114 household income per month) at prices
higher than average costs. Plots for service industries would be priced
at market value, while those for commercial activities would be auctioned.
Plots for community service facilities would be sold to government
agencies, or to private agencies in the case of schools, at their average
development cost.  Off-site infrastructure costs for roads and drains for
schemes in Bombay, Thana and Kalyan would be recovered by BMC, THC an. RHC
through general levies, including property tax and through user charges
for water, sewerage and electricity collected by BMC and GON public
utilities. The pricing scheme for upgraded slums vould vary with location
and plot size. Prices would range from Rs 2000 (about US$180) for a small
plot (16m2) in the most valuable inner city zone, to Rs 1000 (about US$90)
for a similar plot in the suburbs. The scheme would result in a recovery
of all costs of land and on-site improvements from all beneficiary
households.
Benefits and Risks
63.     The land infrastructure servicing program would directly benefit
about 100,000 households, of whom about 65Z are below the estimated Bombay
poverty threshold (US$80 per household per month in September 1983),



-21-
through the provision of tenured shelter, basic environmental services,
primary and secondary education and health care facilities. The slum
upgrading program and local government finance administration and services
component would provide an additional 100,000 households with legal
tenure, basic infrastructure, environmental services, and improved
housing. In addition, about 620,000 households in BNC's island city wards
would be provided vith better solid waste collection and disposal
*         services.  The project's employment potential has been conservatively
estimated to be approximately 26,000 jobs over a 4 to 5 year period. The
economic rates of return have been calculated on prototype land
infrastructure and slum upgrading program sites to be about 18% and 31%
respectively. The estimated rates of return apply to items representing
about 87% of project costs. Non-quantifiable benefits include reduced
morbidity and mortality and increased labor productivity due to improved
environmental services and community facilities.
64.     A number of measures have been taken to reduce project risks.  To
avoid possible delays in land acquisition about 70Z of the land required
is already owned by project implementing agencies. A schedule for the
purchase of the balance of land, with possible alternate sites, was agreed
at negotiations. Measures taken to avoid implementation bottlenecks
include advance site preparation, packaging of civil works contracts,
detailed multi-agency scheduling of all implementation activities from
land acquisition through to the final home improvement loan stage, and the
allocation of work to each agency according to its construction capacity.
Also the Inter-agency Technical committee headed by BMRDA would help to
minimize the risk of delays by facilitating coordination between par-
ticipating agencies. The housing construction finance needs for middle
and upper income groups would be met through the Housing Development
Finance Corporation and the Maharasbtra Cooperative Housing Society. Also
GOM is expected to consider establishing a public housing finance
organization, should there be a likelihood of insufficient funds to
finance lover middle income housing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of MNharashtra and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to Executive Directors separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex II1. Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements by GOM with CIDCO and
BMC are being made additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.     I an satisfied that the proposed csedit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-22-
PART VT -   -
68.    I recoend that the Executive Directors approv the proposed
credit.
Pid0t~~~~~~~
AJ. Clausen
President
I
Jaunary 7, 1985 



AIR= I
Page 1 of 5
Ar A  L E 316
IDrA                  - SOCIAL IOCATOB DlTA SNRm
IqolDA                              RECEr    GUPS  (uE1CM  AYERAS) Is
06?                    OsTr lEC?  iSiIT) 1b
CEr                       w                     i
1960&     197OL     ESTjT            ASXI & PACL.         *ASA4 PACFC
A    (mIusam SQ. RB)
tOTAL                              3287.6    32B7.6      3287.6              .
ACEICLIURAL                         1763.5    1780.5     t1123
i rm PcAl   OM)                         60.0      EO0O.      260.0           278.6                   1091.2
(XELODA-NS OF OIL EQtXVAwLr)         79.0      l13.0      156B0           2)2.0                    567.3
tOPMAZIOU aM VETAL STATSUC
POPULATM.MlD-YTEAJ CTuEosamw)    434869.0  547569.0   7165.0
UA   PUIATI  CZ OF TOZAL)            18.0       19.6       24.1            21.7                     36.7
POPULATItI PRoJEcruoss
P0PUIATLOE IN EAR 2000 (MILL)                           996..
STATIOSACf POPUKATION (CML)                            1707_2
POPULATIOF  WERSMU                                        1-7
POP0LALTIWM SESTY
PER SQ. 1.                        1.32.3     t66.6      23.4            166.6                    261.9
PEt SQ. ML AGCRL IAJ              266.6      307.5      357.1           345.5                   1735.1
POPATIO AGE bMRCTCRE CZ)
0-16  is                           40.9      42.7       39.3            35.6                     39.0
15-6  IRS                          54.5       54.2       57.6            5M.6                     57.6
65 A"D AIE                          4.6        3.1        3.1             4.3                     3.3
POPULATTOK GROTHNMRT Cl)
TOTAL                                L8        2.3        2.2             L_9                      2.3
UMA39                               7;7,       3.3       3L9              4.1                     4.3
CRUME s5I  RAZE (PEI TS              f7.7       41.4       34.2            27.7                     3O.1
CRUIDE VMAl RATE (PEIt TMS)          23.8       17.5       12. 7           10t                      9.5
GCOSS tEPRODCrIOPI RATE             279         2.8        2.2             L8                      2.0
FAMLY PLAMNMG
ACuas. ANNAL Trmols)               64.0    3'2.0       6826.0 
USERS COTOF NARRB    iS              .        LL.7       2.0               ..                     52.7
FOaO amD  EIZo
INE OF FOOD PROD. PEt CAPI
(1969-71-1D0)                        96.O      102.0      101.0           112.8                   123.1'
PMR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
ChARIES CT OF RElUUlN1S)           96.0       91.0      S660             97.7                    114.4
PROTEIS (CRAMS Pm DAY)             54.0       50.0       4.0             56.3                    57.0
OF UHCH ANINAL AND PE             17.0      150        13.0 e          14.9                     141
CHIL (AGES 1-4) DEAR ]WME            26.2       20.7       11.0             9.6                     7.2
LIFE EXPECr. AT DIMr CIARS)          42.5      67.5        54.6            60.0                    60.4
INAXr OUrT. NAE (PEt TO0)           165.0      139.0       94.0            83.8                    68.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (260)
TtlAL                                *-       17.0       33.0 Id         32.9                     3,.0
UlRIB                               ..       60.0       83.0 7d         70.9                     54.68
RURL                                 ..        6.0       20.0 d          22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO ECRET DISPOSAL
(2 oF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..       18.0       20.1. l         16.1                     41.3
-RUII                                ..       85.0       87.0 7;         72.8                     47.4
RURAL                                 .        1.0        2.0 t.          4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PE MsIICXAN             4850.0    4890.0      3690.0 /f       3464.2                  7749.4
POP. PER !IWRSNG PEWX             10980.0 a  7420.0      5460.0W         4793.1                  2660.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL FDW
TOTAL                             2160.0    1650.0     1290.0 if       106.5                    1046.2
URSA                                 ..         ..      370.0 7;        298.0                   651.2
RURAL                                     t. IOIo    7d               3593.4                    2359.6
AOEISSIOS P    SF       D              ..         ..         ..              ..                    27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF UPDUSEDO
TOTAL                                5.2       5.6        5.2 /.
UmRAN                               5.2        5.6        4.s S7.
RURAL                               5.2        5.6        5.37;
AVERAGE 30. OF PES0NSMRI
TOTAL                               2.6        2.8
URBAN                               2.6        2.8
RtURAL                              2.4        2.8
ACCESS TO EJEC Z. (: OF lYLLAIJ)
TuTAL                                ..         ..
tL                                   ..         ..IR



AM=UE I
Page Z of 5
O- CUL            DM _0 -
INDIA                              EhU01  Z5801 AM a  UUm AM  IGK FAX
somacm ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     NB?(06                                sTa)
PITAK=t  MM=A                      G&L0      7M.        7M.             97.4                   102.
noZ                      30O       30.0       33.0           110.31                  105.3
FMlo                     10.0      56.0       61.             83.7                    96.2
SZCOMRTt TOTA                      20.0      26.0       M0.             3.9                     "6.
X4LZ                     30.0      36.0       39.             41.6                    48..
fluWI                    10.0      15.0       20.             M6.                     43.1
VOCATZIWAL Ex or Su=mDAA)            2.8        1.0        0.7 Zg .2                              17.3
PEIW                               46.0      41.0       54.0            38.5                    31.
ZScaliaRT                ~~16.0     21.0         ..            16.                     23.5
An=. LITUtAc I=2 CZ)                27.8      341.1      36.2            53.4                    72.9
PASSECR. CIWTNOW*ID= PO              0.6        1.1        1.4 L     ~     0.9                    10.1
IADZO RI ZVR/RPSlPO                  4.9       21.5       43.6           112.                    113.6
TV        VIONVOSIIAND PM?            0.0       0.0        1.7            13.7                    50.1
-NEESZ CM1tZ  AX
PMA 7HOUaIAD P03P.12105            10.6      16.2       19.4 f     ~    16.2                    53.9
C~I& AUMAL AT29IDCAPiTAM              3.2       6.2        3.7: -          3.6                     3.4
TO=TAL ZSO FOSI!US               1591.0  219191.0   212169.0
PvtAA  CPZRCZN?3                   30.7      32.        31.8            33.3                    33:5
AXOKXUREM CPERCWZ)                 74.0      74.0       71.0            69.6                    5L2.
I33513? PECENTI)                   11.0      11.0       132             15.                     17.9
FAETCIPTIO   n  (PUCISI
IlIZZ~ ~ ~                                              our ssm         m    r
T=.AZ                              42.8      70.0       39.4            42.6                    31.7
KAtZ                               57.0      52.4       50              54.7                    50.9
1VRAZZ                             27.3      26.9       25.9            29.6                    2.
IEPEUt   RAZI                1.1   0 .1            1.1             1.0                     1.1
RECEIWD By
RIWL 52 OF  UsIS                 26.7      26.3 IL    220.2 A         2.2                     22.2
KION? 2027 HOr ausENLE             31.7      66.9 7iZ     49.4          48.0                    31.0
WeD? 2QX07 HOUSEHOLDS               4.1      267    7 .0 ..              6.4                     64
D1072? 40% or 2ousL5=              13.6      17.Z 1    16.2             155                     15.5
w-    0. 0. Js X
ESTD(4ADD ALSO=ZI POVUT? UCaI
LEM. CS PE CAPA)
031BJ..                                        .       1320 lb         133.9                   1s69.
RURAL                        .6                        114.02 r        I1.6         16.32.
ESE?KATZO RELATIVE 1013? DIOB
LISM CMS PER CAPrTA)
03*3..                                         .....                                           177.9
RURAL                                ....                                                      164.6
ESTDIJTE POP. 31.0 ASO
P01132? DESI LEME C?)
oAn".                                                   60.3 lb         43.8                    23.
RMUAL                                                   NU. 3. 5        51.7                    37.7
MrT APPLICAILE
:  t )                 T*.0      7K~~~~~~~p0  JL            69.                     52
IaTh group averase for ewch indicator ame popmutln-voeIgchad arfr.tIetl mem. Cover96e of eountTlaa mugM the
IndIcator. depeQd. on alIabUity oE data and U not 1nif1r.
/b  gUslna othepwLue noted. "RIte for L960" refer to any yewr IetuL959 and 1961;- "RIta for 1970" betwem 1969 end
1971 and data for                            52e. heent Eatimte bee  18 and 1982.
Ic  1977; i  1976; /a 1975;  f 1978; JA 1962; .1    1979;    t 1964-65.
I=  1934



ANNEX I
tt w ,,                                                 Page 3 of 5
a:  .a          144  t    __ 114           w.fl  _        44. t_  tt4        . 4. .t_. s_ taIl.                aC  _a 4_  aU __ - i.tfl.__t
_l.4  ,_~  41  _ * 1at._ _On  4i.14   _tJ_tJ-  _ t.t.* ns. _ _eel _ ___.4_  t_      _   t  t,4..
fW tt_ t_ _ _t @ _ _-  _o3,11                                          _     W  "-   t_   __
t_ -_ _st- Ve . t.                           =-4-t-    . -tIM                                      - a   as   .W _.    _ t?. .e  C -
'  t- 1.tt 44a   a- _  .ibs _e                stt_n- a._|  ......... 441       ......  n                                    _E.4 I..5544 5-.  
gaas a 1         -045"4154.                                                        i.         -S   ti44 t- *   - _ 1n  _  t_41*t- _          t      5Ct4
tottS ~     ~      -     9- t_1-9_ _    :_:t
*- Lt     4  t- _         _.r_i   - ._.as..5.                       t        .    4 4 _                 . as _  _4. tt _ __
ow        _.  _. 0       _  __  _t  _*   - tt_ 15 *                .                      1w_ t t _i..o..
.".  W*        .Ia  4 , _St t4 r t   _-.  5 'ti                                                    4
s~~~~~aaa.  f-  a   a441                                     - _I         _.   isa..  r tIE                      ...C;1. _S..   _.el___ -_ _.4                       .win:.tw _ 11e4:
tt-a- 441, *- iw  t.                                                                Il __:*. *[t-t san  a  mt_t. 4    4 ..414 mfln.ti  t_.cI.
44.4.4taa-44 _   4 -W     -t -o too_- 
.4441  ne i.  a:;.w     .    lcs       .       -L   Om...s, ..                    alt- .  ...... a-is. .11...         .f.     msiaC*   4
=t _   _   t.  e                                                                                             - t _C
LO& A_-                                                                                                    LL-_            f   Wt   _   11        tZ 
att44I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ "tv
tHI  '04.4*4. 4.-  ---.1 *   44*M.W524 -                                                 S
r.na - 1.5.11 -   Lt --                            W         -.C  gtt-                            Of _t* t- - f      t-h               5                 -tn  t _-i
r__t   _ _  t ______________ __                                                                                                              S n    . 1  4
RO- t_hs- - -               _' - Ifo s             4       Oe. -w                                    t.-_  -        i.      - _          -E tTV..1
t_- INI-40R- SS        C 4_ t_ _      i  444 .a-  -L-                                    L'.4a    4       W11        .  a  _          _    t__
_^.n-      LS_ 1.-  S  ~ ~Stz
-fl r_s stnatst_           1      ,           -          S   tul-tO  i -that. tStk-  r-               -       W  4.
-W _stI  44 r_l4.i114  a           q r_ _4- Sl at         t_    .- _1                    __0__                                  . -: _
-4w-     -      -. _0 -            ft"   4     4   4. -_a _ z[ t414            4          4- __
o_|2f _"                    r_t   _ab              CPO -W@ t_                       lis s@  _ at_~  *
==5. st_fhi  _ B           insErP _1544. _  ai-04141c r.444.                      '       S i - 41. -r    lr         S-     i4-Lt  _    d t L _   a le
_n  _an  Ia _              1_   .44541. aIm __Itlte t...tf ,                       "    In _ _.  -1    n. a-   a rr    _4._ !  -s--n -  t-c t s-1-
.144 40 .4.4144-1.asfl a *. -                ..t _0  .-41. .-at-.a. 41 a-tI. 11-4- * 4   al *                                                --l-2-
_aii4.fl  .lL t- L-              1.  _ *       I  i, Wt--               _4  _f     _                    - _ 4 t-Is 
l.a_ .4444W   _ _It4t  saId   .n1_4 _-  4444l41444l4.45.  -                                                         a..      .14..  54- 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                      _.                   _ w_                egl r-i .5 f t _
-._     i Id  :144 .5.44   . to 1_ I_t   4_                                                   441 -_ r__    ml. -a   _1   -      _ ra          _-Sn
ml  enta  sagas. 1444L .1L   fl                           44f4alI.a.i.                    444  1445S              a-
:..Ia  fin4 a, si      .. 9...414   fnt W t  -ii..fl  .S.9 ?A."  -1414iii
asi   _t. _ _._I__. s. _   an _i                   *_ _Xurat  1  55a a    Ila     i.                           _1 _r..  _  .C.  idi
f4-44     45   5544 _   i5.-   r     _ain   - i_"    5.wm   a_ .                  r    _   fv                                                          "W
.rt-    i      - -t                                                                   -r *- r-  _-  45 __-1 _ Wt  PM  1_  -.1  ..  .uD
i.5    .    g~  OP- tow"   ti 4.1?.           --                                   tan..      awn541  44.4      .                     Mtl*..41
_L-B t - _                                             twt o4 i a'     i_l.   Sr    .- ita-US  5a _ea
stg-                                                                                                                                ft)f.I~      isI..l   lt..V.  nl.II-Iilta.   .4   in..        *5i4
II,a       44ia1I              -    a  a    4s.f .4il4   54-.a M                     1t5      4444tl  4S44                I5   .         i?
M      1441 a 1-L%  - 4444.
1t...r....  44....-41- 55544.4a-1. nl  44fI-t   iSWIM
.mts              C  t             si      tu    S _r41  _.                                          i- 4stt5 _S
5.4t4_r tf tUd _ _4  -              _    S _                   _t                             .
' anntI  4T..          ._ *4.4       1S.L                                         4..t4.                     ._s.  D .__ t-m             ia- 1n,."
I   _.    isle l           it5 - a   - ._1  _   .._se    Ja- a                                                         _  _ a       _ _  -r.. SUL
C_an._w _4.   .stu_ Ia  i0.) -   iS14           . I     -fl atr.                       ae _  44 4f rr4 _r1 _4 4.          __            i           4a
r-a   44f1t  A41. r94Il  _n _44  En               .zl                                         atuf  _si.ens                                _
tI     I  *l.  _44 _a  i_l En                                                       cti  .44  _-         _     a t:c4f.51-4   nl.
a    r_ r444  _tf  i     , -    _.4  4_   _     - _ a                     ad a- S 14Ij4 _       a  i0i4 rast -           an as    a vnn
rr _ r_a1_  _r _ _ _ ,.,_1.    405. 444..41...........d. .t
F.MLIP-6~ ~~ - _  e, tz r D 
t_M_WPM- a                                 -s-  We "e _  r  _t- t-t-v "*zb t  
f _~~~~~s  41444- 4tlai .44   ii~-, -                                         *-~.   _   Itt ststs_tm            44  _d?  U1 naama _1-5  fIn  .a tan
4IW. a-il r .45-4W.  It.s                                                                                                     44    4. 1_    Wi3 -_
._.  AW   s -  4   4        ,     l  _l - 1_, ,                li_4 _-  _t         _
_sr__ _t44      __  r  4  a   -$_ _ *i11 444   tan   -
_ lta l       a    _.   4- -l         I I-4      l  s   _                         _r____ _ _ _ _  -_ *_ ____*____
faS   t4144.eI                 54.ri             5.s          n444                         444- _ abS _4..U *54b  t.fll  4                    a_r
_i  *0I   rt t_ .tI _44 n       44  0_ a __-_r il    51   14.4.                                - s.t __*4..4S               r.n. 1ast..ts  _
fO_ 1i4a4..  tIaI    _i             _1-f  41 _aSI.   B                   _         14      9  at _n 4.4  44a            _1 14. _D   1tI 444 _O I
ali   41s al     n.44    Etat i_: a-i    0w    _4 I-                                        II 44441 r_5  a  Cal tii         . 41 at  n. r _t 54
_.  a4541   _Us   SIt   4-l   .44s_t_ a.si  _44                                        i    lC4. aw _4.  a          - .4  440.  504_ _-1          I   44_ _
044.  Cl *.  *      4441 _     t faIta 4, 11  .444  _44   l.41atq44n.'t.4                                              s4f.a16i    e
ai54  a    I441ii-W    nl                   15 C_4fl.   _t.-                _        i__e4        a.4    nsnl n_ _
_- *t4 _i _         4 r_ 1 54it 44E _ttBl.  441 1.444                                                   IIW  _  4.4.4    1414fit5   .               t
-~~ aIS   a_ aIS                                   _o14   _41.4I  25 4-  fl1  4j14                                   _| Inst anw _ -
41     14aa41-  sttl _e  _  -4444   aCst r_ri_ 
4.144_ ical..> 4    - 14gnaS   4-    .4la. __.4                 _          4t l?I
I   at  wae.t    __  __a a 4441  was4454. _a                                        4-4444-14--41
551.4_ w                          r _l  a_. 40a2.-,  95In14    nbtt.44444449n                                      14.     i_14 
1.  .41   1444   n.1444*44   sit- n14et  4  a                                        .41144ti               BtBIS                            -
St      _a4a4          .14       .    4  44tmd   ISa44?afsl.as    w1 ntl                                                        44    *Ci   .



ktp 4eof 5
Uci  uimai DANA
Cl? 1  CAPl=  l 1261 336  .1
C-ss DOM IC DM=     1         3 w                                                            . or  . Jle t        - sr
195356-195316  .900L-i4ZS t9617    M                            1975/76-1979/60
GDP at Natht Prde                170.74  10.0                     3.7              3.6             3.7              2.9             4.1
GrOM  Dimazit IftVUuC             43."    24.6
Ce Utou   SO                      381      22.3
Cucst AcCount uLmsc.    - 2.3
w ?r. Lam ra  AM  0WIviTt IS 1961
We  added Cat factr ct)          Labar Fgrs 11                    r
us$ six.               Z                 _          it   Fi1OS-
:icolt                            51.7                33.1        172.7    70.6      2"        50
Zndus-y                           35.2                23.9        31.6     U.9    I114         185
Sacus                             60.6                41.0         40.3    16.5    150         249
?TDaL/Awwass                                        -Tau-   ~-           -su c r
zOVERI     Yalua                                                                                .
s. But.            5 of GOP                  VA. BI..   _
118/3      1982/3   1313173-13W83      ~     1                     13A78f31328
Cuzrrut REceIPts                   333.34     20.3           19.5               175.61       10.7         10.5
currest bPGudtszes                 340.09     20.7           19.0               I n.5        11.         10.8
Current Sazplua/Dsflclt           - 4.75    - 0.4             0.5              - 12.        - 0.8        - 0.4
C_pitaL REedme fl                   31.        6.0            8.1                93.13        5.3          5.7
tcazl Aaltume Gutdi 1               19V.30      1.2           1.0
~. ~1T AND -UCKS                  l970/  1975776 13714  19        7     9n10    _      IL,, l" 21S3    r              7sbs        164
husy and Quas Imy                  109J   24.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   55.5   624.9   723.0              711.7         84.7
see cramit to co,szint cont)        54.6   106.3   137.3   15.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.4           353.5         406.8
huk CceIt to Coen_ela Scttw         64.6    [26.2    22.    233.3   310.1   363.5   40.5   504.            48.?          576.4
Clrcmtws ae Ind: Nurw)                                Apr-Tab 19UJ3 AM-Fab 163/84
!_my n Qias hOnO   as  S
of GDO                            Z7.3    30.3    36.7    41.1    4.1    43.6    42.0    44.0
hoirNQA  <Is Indm
(19707  * 1oo)                   1000    173.0   185.5   115.    217.6   257.3   231.4   26.6            2.1               314.8
_al pteutgs          p  I:
1baela_ Prti  13dm                   7.7    -1.1      5.2      -       17.1    18.2      9.4     2.6         2.3               3.3
Book Cadit to GaVame   (Mat)        15.0      2.7    16.3    16.0    25.6    23.5    20.2    14.0           21.0 If           U.9 1I
Duk Credt to C doical Sector        19.      227      2.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    18.4    17.2           15.5  f           17.9 Cl
at Ts VWr capita 0? estss in at      t prtucses. loss voed  k Atlas        _,ode1w. ba Vs peioa 197p-141L.
AU1 atbut coasysi_us to dallars In  1ta ttbla ar  in do_ WAgs  zbm a pzaVmlksg datin  th  PuIAd COzd
bi Quick  nas. Coema stlagical Oripslmstion.
Comuted feA  rmid Us of G1 at facor cast ma&".  lad     ass bsrvato  be_  e  fSzmt yewr m am  ubme_usti  aitn  lofti Iew of
d  varId Duk estlastas of on disbeomt ef coesiainu &W and D9D.
!'  ?mawfar  I          CoSm and Sctat  bsw bumtted set
Ll lo    an d        _  to dthid putius b_m  bea  sttud mut.
5/ Prc.ats cbms frm endE_b  36 to  d-1sbesy 1983.
hi/ P     _rcategs chms foe e.dJluh 1363 to eaidlbroary 134
if Totl Ldor  osrm a  pwcantap bgodoem fro  19B1 Coa. Exclude dat for Asm.a.



MM S of S
PeAiX0   AaInntS                 a/lal   sex/az  jS-pLS-Jf im,a41M               gamU         a     Cakvi    99/019233i
CUSS Mu.)                                                                           mLrn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~.  ...3....- 
vxporca of Cedb gl                     5.50       .519    6.001    8.46*               S1Uu5S1m   C  Si'            30        12
tZorEe of cods g/                    -16.2,0  -I5.00  -16.24   -14.42                Tm                             4as        6
Tred. BSe .                          - 7.700  - 4.9A   - 6.248  -5.934               Cl                             779        9
IIFS (ut)                             J1.35        974       940      am              QOsbSm                        573        7
Leah  ud  1s    Products  "40            6
!otC&e Balsam                        - 6.335  - 6.007  - 3.306    3.010               u1nesctZ                     223        4
KIm 0m                         330       3
interest Zucane (=at) k/                 600       2U   -  413        64U            Cotts T.uaa                     23        4
not Tramfrc. U                         2.771     2.31B    1.643      1.90              _m                            34        I
Oet.                         3.39       44
lelanca an Current Account           - 2.36    - 3.403   - 3.74      3.94
OffIcIal Keae. a Gotal                                                                                            3.243      100
Crga                                    2.651    2.50      3.056    3.441                  _L 2I. 1MM= 31. 1913
AmorttZ._La                          -  700        674  -  71  -  73
Tr_Aaae&."   with m   (usc)             1.035      690    1.930      1.295           011taA1vI      _ m                       19.4
ALL Othe ltn  0/                     -   367  -1.531          12       531             _ab.rsd                                 1t.1
_.g i-r dI. IucInile  Uuiiahsrae        30.7
lacrosse 1t 2ev. C-)                     345    2.30    -  503  -  534
Grows _amutYs (Cud p.r) ,/              6.33     4*461    4.34       3.5300          N SBnV= 31O 1MR 1982/33 ,J 1              o0.1 FMc.t
not Za5azvs (_ud yawr) m                6.532    3.49?    2.033      1.449
_ sa rn 135  31303. 193 1l
Foal and Related Hatorlals, 
Ixpor   (ettroim) 3/                   6.672    3.590    4.613    3.333                                                          is
-tUd       _ sd 1M1W               1.JZ6    7,S92
U:iahurbu.                        Z.01      4.331
04itu.ib iucaiI  UaIaharu    3.307   I2.235
ams or  
June 1966 to cd-fecbw 1971n    :      S1.00 - to 7.50
to t-00 - . 00.1333
Kid-Decer 1971 to end-Je   372:  UW1.00 - Be 7.Z7927
Re 1.00 -*   O.137376
ALft r s Wd-jue 1972              :  nestsa  am
Spot Rem s.d-Neit  1933          :  031.00 - am 10.0931
PA 1.00 - SD.O97
Spot Nuts  lM-Er  1934            :  1S1.o0  - as IO.71U
Re 1.00 -  10.0933
1 antimfd
131..             war 1an iaveit i_e_n  (ast). maJor pe_ce  MO faterst U foulga Le_ Mg chersl pid toI DV. _d Mqer reuder  La
Iaterest m d os  brulga fe es.
I/ Fluurs given Include u@t2m, c-it-ma but exclude officil gret _ntence  dS  to includ   Within oflcial lae cm  grows. _d
neu-resiisst deposits    we  iaglsi   witbhi a   eaU  tet .
M/ atclude mc ue of Zi  credit.
3/ Aortlzatim ud int.rtayments as foralga  oma ae a porceto* of toAl ercEat raaIPt
/l Includee mh_a  re  dumauts to the wslatdls of reme  ed flaen   of 2dMUMM In t.UPtea.
_/     ludIa  3.
Ne 11t of cnud pstalem  exot.
cl*ud1  ia  ad ates".



ANJNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BA11 LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No. _   Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA jj     Undisbursed     v
50 Loans/                                            2,164.0          -             -
93 Credits fully disbursed                               -        5,535.2           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                      -           30.0          8.15
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development        -           1B.0          0.03
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0          -           24.94
1273 ._    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0         -            11.19
1335-I-N   1977     Bombay Urban Transport              25.0         -             1.17
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -          30.0           8.45
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0          1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           12.0          7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0         -             2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation            -          23.0           1.52
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development       -           8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -         107.0          52.65
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research             -            8.0          4.93
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0         -             1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0         -             3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -         117.6          37.38
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -         200.0          30.11
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture           -          14.0           9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0         -            15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -         150.0          43.85
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -         196.0         141.11
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                     -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -          27.0          14.06
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -           25.0           2.94
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -           30.0          0.83
164B-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power            50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979     Ragundam Thermal Power               -         200.0          10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         129.0          38.32
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -          48.0           6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -          23.0           2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II            -         210.0          42.74
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Commity Forestry             -          37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -          20.0          16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -          46.0          27.63



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      ADproval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA jj     Undisbursed J
i 1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                -          175.0          94.88
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                            -           22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0         159.67
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0          7.56
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0          17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          30.32
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0         49.09
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                  100.0          -             5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0         113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0          14.38
1078-IN    1981     Nahanadi Barzages                      -          83.0         42.64
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         19.49
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Hedium Irrigation                -          140.0         85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecomaunications VIII               -          314.0         89.58
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0         37.68
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0        117.86
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0         17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0         70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0        273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0        154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -           18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         15.13
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                          150.0          -           57.70
2076-IN    1982     R-amgundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -          269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0          -            0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -           20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0         60.11
1286-IN    1983     Ja=mu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA IJ    Undisbursed g
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0        177.00
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         114.38
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -         101.0          89.79
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Pover          -         170.0         148.38
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Pover        156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -         147.0         132.10
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -          32.0          26.95
2308-TI    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization       22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Pover Tranmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2         -            45.89
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -         105.0          83.20
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -          31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -          27.0          25.57
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0                     150.62
2403-ill    1984    Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6                     203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                         125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation                      172.0         164.14
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7                     280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Pover*          300.8                     300.80
Total                                  6,526.3    12,268.3
of vhich has been repaid             1.350.8        173.0
Total now outstanding                   5,175.5    12,095.3
Amou.t Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA O        5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,712.69    3,494.35
sJ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denouinated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
VJ  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRJUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (USS million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -       1.5
1959            Xirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -       1.4
1961            R.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Hahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.      7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9               15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mabindra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -       8.1
1984            The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.7        -        3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS       210.7       12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                         53.0       3.4     56.4
Repaid                      34.0        -       34.0
Cancelled                   33.0        1.4    34.4
Now Held                    90.7        7.3     98.0
Undisbursed                 44.1        -       44.1
_ ~       -      -



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the countrv to prepare the proiect
About 18 months.
(b) The agency which has irepared the proiect
The Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development
Authority.
(c) Date of first Presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the Droiect
January 1982; March 1982.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 27, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 7, 1984.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                                      )
May 15, 1985.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  Schemes will only be implemented on the selected
list of sites, or such other sites as
may be satisfactory to the Association (para. 48).
(b)  Approximately 45X of the principal repayments due to
GOM from the implementing agencies would be
credited to a revolving fund and used for financing
future projects in line with the objectives of the
proposed project (para. 57).
(c)  Interest charges to beneficiaries for loans for
serviced plots, home expansion and improvement loans,
and slum upgrading would be at not less than 12Z per
annum (para. 61).



ANNXn
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRO-CURMEKT METHOD
(Us$ Million)
Project
Elemen-t            ICB         ICB        Other         At          Total Cost
Land acquisition    -             -          -          6.7             6.7
Civil Works                     194-                     -            194.6
(97.3) Li}                          (97.3)
Rome Improvement    -             -          -         39.6            39.
Loans                                                (29.7)          (29.7)
Machinery and       8.4            4.5                                14.
Equipment         (6.3)          (2.3)    (0.6)                       (9.2)
Technical Assistance             -          1j,
and Training                              (1.8)                       (1.8)
8.4         199.1                 46.3           256.7
TOTAL
(6.3)        (99.6)    (2.4)      (29.7)         (138.0)
;] Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
r



-   X  )  /   S         -iwrarti Sy \<-) ~iw
BOMB~~~~~~~~~~W                  IAYmbg r  Mthrcn  
I~~~~~~s UB                                                 ,,So1i   0o/ 
(t             ---|\\+;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol   )
EJ                                                               0                            2
C)  )
fh  -                                                   _ _w .b
~"j                                                                                             INDIA
BOMBYBOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
" >              /         zf      s           ~~~~~~~~Land' and Infrastructure Servicing  iesi the BobyMtooia  Region
_-                                                                                                Site   in /,m.1a   ,vie ropo e
*~_*   _ f  Alibtag ,>  z-   IM /  \W aran
~~~mEWILA     D                                                  we 



. .i'..~~~.--i      IURMA
S1I%ANKA
I Proposed Servicing Site$
Deanor Land Fill Sit,
|    Maholormi Tronslfor Station
*     Price Zone Baovndaries for Greater
Bombay rSlum Upgroding)
Mojor Industrial Estoles
,     Iron Market
./ _  1/IProposed Roilroods (Non-project)
:::]Proposed Port Developmnent
|   /%   1 _/         |                           \_,                 \  J                              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Non proiecil
o       Principol Totins an Cities oubide BMC
Virar    /                                                                                                                      .--.--r- Radrords
Major Highwoys
\    /               I                                  t/<                                  -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Word Boundries of Geooter BDombu
9   \               /                              /\Xt   \                                        - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Munmcipol Corpotolion floundarie
f(\   \            /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ yf                          8    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  d~~~omboy Metfopolilon Region
/   \   \                                                            )                                   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oundory
/ ri\                                                ~                             ~                           ~                           Sioh ooundonr,u
,ffiVosoi \ \ I {) --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intofnoiionol flondorios
I,                                                                      4 ,                |                0                                  RiietR
)A.08hiwo                                                           ) 
Kolyon
,,~~~~~~l                        NE                                       _                                               5         0         is    ?t ' o
BOMBAY                                                                                                           ohg
ISLAIND   '      ',c                                                      ' IO                                                         .,_ ,






