Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16678
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1544-IN)
June 10, 1997
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUJIVALENTS
(Currency Unit - Rupee (Rs.)
Year                                             _!S$1= Rs.      SDR 1 = US $
1983   (Appraisal)                               ]I 00                    1.002
1985   (Credit Effectiveness)                    12 05                    1.17
1986                                             1248                     1.20
1987                                             12 63                    1.25
1988   (Mid Term)                                1 324                    1.29
1989                                            1( 34                     1.32
1990   (Original Credit Closing)                   172(                   1.39
1991                                             2( 73                    1.31
1992                                             3(06                     1.45
1993                                             31 22                    1.40
1994   (Revised Credit Closing)                  31 36                    1.40
All rates are as of April of each year except 1982 and 1985. The rate used lor 1985 was of August 1985. Average rate over the
implementation period was Rs. 20.33/US$.
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Apri I I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALIS                               Affordable Low Income Shelter Program
BMC                                Bombay Municipal Corporation
BMR                                Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA                              Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
BUDP                               Bombay Urban Development Project
CIDCO                              City and Industrial Development Corporation
ERR                                Economic Rate ol Return
FOP                                Finance and Operations Plan (model)
FSI                                Floor Space Index
GIS                                Geographic Infornation Systems
GOI                                Government of India
GOM                                Government of Maharashtra
KMC                                Kalyan Municipa) Corporation
LISP                               Land Infrastructure Servicing Program
LOGFAS                             Local Government Finance Administration and Services
NMMC/NBMC                          Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation/Navi Bombay
Municipal Corporation
MEIP                               Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program
MHADA                              Maharashtra lIousing and Area Development Authority
MIS                                Management Information Systems
RCA                                Rent Control Act
SAR                                Staff Appraisal Report
SUP                                Slum Upgrading l'rogram
TATE                               Technical Assistance Training and Equipment
TMC                                Thane Municipal Corporation
ULCA                               Urban Land Ceiling Act
Vice President                  Mieko Nishimizu
Director                        Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief                  Jean-Francois Bauer
Task Manager                    Argun Ceyhan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1544-IN)
TABLE OF CONTEN] S
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................    j
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............                        ............................ I
A. Project Objectives ........................................                                 1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................ 3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................10
D. Project Sustainability ........................................ 12
E. Bank Performance ........................................                                 12
F. Borrower Performance ........................................                             13
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................                            15
H. Future Operations ........................................ 16
1. Key Lessons Learned ........................................                              16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1         Summary of Assessments
Table 2         Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3         Project Timetable
Table 4         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7         Studies Included in Project
Table 8a        Project Costs
Table 8b        Project Financing
Table 9         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13        Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Letter dated May 23, 1997.
Appendix B-Annex I: Borrower Contribution to ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1544-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bombay Urban
Development Project (BUDP)* for which a Credit of SDR 137.7 million (equivalent to US$138
million at the time of appraisal) to India was approved on January 29, 1985. The Credit became
effective on August 22, 1985. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1994 after being
extended five times from the original closing date of September 30, 1990. Final disbursement
took place on May 17, 1994. A total of SDR 93,495,400 (equivalent to US$124.89 million) were
disbursed. A total of SDR 44,204,600 had earlier been canceled in 1991 and 1993.
The ICR was initiated by a mission comprising of Mr. Evan Rotner (Mission Leader) and
Ms. Kim Cuenco (Urban Planner)". The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Chief,
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division and Mrs. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser,
Country Department II, South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR began after the Bank's final supervision mission (September
1994). It is based on material in the project files. The Borrower assisted significantly in the
preparation of the ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, and commenting on the initial draft ICR as well as a subsequent revised draft. The
Borrower's comments on the latter are given in Appendix B. The Bank's and the Borrower's
conclusions on Bank Performance, Borrower Performance and Assessment of Outcome differ
significantly. Because of this reason, the Borrower's contribution has been included in the ICR
in its entirety (Appendix B).
The name "Bombay" has been changed to "Mumbai". However, since the original name of the Project is
Bombay Urban Development Project, the name Bombay was used in this ICR to refer to the current name of
Mumbai.
Mr. Sunil Mathrani, Consultant, contributed to the completion of the report, in early 1997.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1544-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's initial involvement in urban development in India began in the 1970s and
focused on three of India's largest cities -- Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. The objective of these
interventions was to raise the level of services provided to the population, and to strengthen
urban planning and service delivery institutions, particularly those of local government. The
scope of these urban activities were subsequently broadened to include medium-sized cities. The
Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP) identified land, infrastructure and shelter
development as being the most critically neglected Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR)
problems which were not addressed by the Bank's earlier projects. The Project formed part of the
Government of Maharashtra's (GOM) Affordable Low Income Shelter (ALIS) Program in BMR
for the period 1983/84-1989/90. The overall objective of ALIS was to reduce the absolute
number of households living in slums by increasing the supply of affordable shelter particularly
to the poor. BUDP also supported GOM's efforts to improve policies and institutions affecting
the management of urban development.
Project Objectives
2.    The project aimed to increase the public supply of affordable land, infrastructure and
shelter, particularly for low income families. It sought to improve local governments' financial
and administrative capacity to deliver and maintain services, and to plan and execute urban
projects. In so doing, it aimed to significantly reduce the cost of shelter investments through
more efficient and equitable land use planning and pricing policies, appropriate performance-
oriented design standards and development control and building regulations. Finally, it aimed to
direct a larger proportion of private investment in land servicing and shelter construction into low
cost units for low income families.
3.    Although the objectives remained valid and unchanged throughout the life of the Project,
the emphasis shifted away from slum upgrading to municipal services and infrastructure when
the project was restructured in late 1990. Looking back, it is clear that these objectives although
ambitious, were correct, given the problems identified at the time of project preparation.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project had four major components:



- ii-
(a)   Land Infrastructure Servicing Program (LISP);
(b)   Slum Upgrading Program (SUP);
(c)   Local Government Finance Administration and Services (LOGFAS); and
(d)   Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment (TATE).
Under LISP, physical targets for sites and services schemes were almost fully met. Affordable,
serviced plots were sold to nearly ninety thousand low-income households. However, the target
was achieved over a period of nine instead of five years, as expected at appraisal. This time
overrun has been taken into account in the overall project evaluation.
5.    Only 22 percent of the SAR target for SUP was achieved. The component proved very
difficult to implement for a number of reasons, which shows the lack of a strong constituency
for in-situ slum upgrading on a cost-recovery basis. The scheme was undermined by competition
from several parallel programs that financed essential infrastructure in slums, or provided new,
free (or almost-free) housing to slum dwellers (Part i, para. 9).
6.    Financial objectives (affordable pricing for low income beneficiaries, while ensuring full
cost recovery, charging real interest rates, and significant internal cash generation for project
funding) were substantially achieved. A revolving fund created in the Bombay Metropolitan
Region Development Authority (BMRDA), from part of the repayments to GOM by the
implementing agencies is now operational. It is contributing to the development of capacity for
financial intermediation in the area of municipal infrastructure.
7.    Objectives regarding reforms in rent control, property tax and urban land ceiling were not
fully achieved. They were considered essential for achieving the long-term objectives of ALIS,
but no specific actions were explicitly included in the project conditionality. The Bank expected
GOM to pursue these reforms in parallel with the project. It would appear that while there was
agreement on the importance of reforms between the Bank and Government officials, the
complexities and resistance to such reforms were not adequately taken into account. The Bank
made a concerted attempt to promote these reforms and the unusually long delay in negotiating
the project shows the extent of the efforts made (Part 1, paras. 18-21).
8.    The technical capacity of BMRDA, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Authority (MHADA) and the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) to
formulate, plan and implement projects was strengthened during the Project. Nevertheless,
experience with this project has shown that the ability of BMRDA and GOM to successfully
coordinate large, multi-agency programs remains weak. Hence, the overall achievement of this
objective was only partial.



- 111 -
Project Sustainability
9.    The project is unlikely to be sustainable because of the lack of political and institutional
commitment to its approach. BUDP, with its emphasis on cost recovery, and offering products
with limited visibility encountered difficulty in evoking political commitment, particularly as
regards major legislative reforms. Frequent changes in leadership at the institutional level also
contributed to this difficulty. The Project would be sustainable only if GOM demonstrates
commitment to the project's approach and objectives, which has not been the case for slum
upgrading. Sustainability and replicability of future sites and services schemes would be
enhanced if they did not have to rely on governmental land, whose supply in the BMR is now
limited.
Project Cost, Financing and Schedule
10.   The Project closed with a rupee expenditure of Rs. 435.81 crores (US$214.33 million) as
against Rs. 282.33 crores (US$256.70 million) estimated in the SAR, but with a corresponding
Credit utilization of SDR 93 million (US$124.889 million) instead of the estimated SDR 137.7
million (US$138 million). The SAR estimated a 6.5 year completion period, but this proved to
be over-optimistic as nine years were required instead. The Project was restructured with two
successive credit cancellations of SDR 37 million in December 1991 and SDR 7.20 million in
June 1993 (Part I, para. 5). By June 1994, the balance of SDR 93 million was fully disbursed
before the final closing date of September 1994.
Major Factors Affecting Achievement
11.   Communal disturbances in Bombay during the short period between December 1993 and
February 1994, and the continuous depreciation of the rupee, particularly after the Gulf War in
1991, adversely affected credit utilization. These factors were not within GOI's control. Within
Government control were several factors that influenced project implementation. First, efforts to
reform the Rent Control Act (RCA) and the Urban Land Ceiling Act (ULCA) were ineffective.
Second, the lack of government commitment to the SUP approach led to the continuation of
grant-based improvement schemes and subsidized tenement programs which made SUP less
attractive, and resulted in the limited achievement of these objectives. Third, although
introduced for well-intentioned environmental considerations, the general ban on quarrying and
development of coastal wetlands adversely affected project implementation (Part I, para. 30).
Fourth, the unrealistic policy of retaining development plan reservations on slums held up the
transfer of tenure to slum dwellers' cooperatives.
12.   With the exception of MHADA, implementing agencies administered BUDP as a part of
their other ongoing activities. This resulted in less attention being given to BUDP. There were
also delays in bid evaluation and decisions regarding award of contracts by the Standing
Committee which have been chronic problems in the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC).
Many of the delays were mainly due to weak coordination at the governmental level which failed
to resolve issues in a timely manner.



- iv -
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.   Apart from a few shortcomings, Bank performance was generally satisfactory in the
identification and preparation, and marginally satisfactory in appraisal and supervision of the
project. The unbroken continuity of the Bank Task Manager (Part I, para. 42) and the BMRDA
Manager responsible for the project was a positive feature. However, the Bank should have
allocated more resources for supervision during the last three years of implementation.
14.   The Project had six implementing agencies plus a coordinating body and four distinct
components'. Performance varied according to agency and component and over time. It is
extremely difficult to integrate this degree of diversity into a single measure of Borrower
performance spread over a twelve-year period. Nevertheless, on balance, Borrower performance
is rated as marginally satisfactory, although this assessment would not be justified for all
implementing agencies.
Assessment of Outcome
15.   Despite the partial fulfillment of project goals, the overall outcome is assessed as
marginally satisfactory, principally because of the success of the project's largest component,
LISP . By meeting the objective of improving the supply of serviced public land to low-income
households, the project has enabled over half a million persons to benefit directly from the
investments undertaken by the project. The majority of the beneficiaries were close to, or below
the poverty line (Part I, para. 26). These benefits imply the transfer of real assets to the poor and
the project has thereby contributed to alleviating poverty. F inally, the ERR surpassed SAR
estimates (Part I, para. 25) and the project's financial targets have also been met.
Findings and Key Lessons
16.   The Project has demonstrated that:
(a)    The design of urban development projects should explicitly take into account
socio-political factors that have a key impact on sector policies and where
possible, alternative less ambitious reform options should be considered (Part I,
para. 22);
/  Implementing Agencies                                     Project Components
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA)  LISP, SUP, TATE
City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO)        LISP, LOGFAS, TATE
Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC)                         LISP, SUP, LOGFAS, TATE
Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC)                          LOGFAS, TATE
Kalyan Municipal Corporation (KMC)                         LOGFAS, TATE
Navi Bombay Municipal Corporation (NBMC)                   LOGFAS, TATE
Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA) was the coordinating body.
2   Estimates at appraisal were 85,000 plots; they were revised to 88,000 plots during restructuring. Actually,
87,743 plots were developed under the program (Tables I and 2).



- v -
(b)   even holding up the processing of a substantial loan in support of investments is
insufficient to bring about required legal and institutional reforms (Part I, para.
18). However important the reforms may be, they will only occur if there is
sufficient political will to confront the vested interests resisting them. Once a
loan becomes effective, attention is focused more on project-specific
implementation objectives at the expense of broader and politically difficult
sectoral reforms;
(c)   the Bank should not undermine its credibility by making explicit policy
declarations to Borrowers and then ignore its own self-declared policy (Part I,
para. 20);
(d)   a project's physical and financial objectives can be largely achieved despite
distorted sector policies. As a result of BUDP, about half a million poor people
have benefited from serviced plots and housing loans financed by the project. The
implementing agencies have acquired substantial financial resources from plot
sales as a direct result of their participation in the project and are thus in a position
to replicate the physical achievements of the project (Part I, para. 51);
(e)   in order for such urban development programs involving multiple agencies to be
implemented efficiently, it is necessary to strengthen the planning, coordination
and management of urban services by these agencies. Improvement of
procurement practices is also essential (Part I, para. 35 (e)); and
(f)   frequent changes of key personnel and staff, particularly from the Indian
Administrative Service cadre have been a common problem in implementing
long-term programs. This has also been true of important engineering positions in
BMC and MHADA. The continuity of key personnel is critical to ensure
commitment to project objectives.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1544-IN)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    The Bank's initial involvement in urban development in India began in the early 1970s
and focused on three of India's largest cities -- Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. The objectives of
these interventions were to raise the level of services provided to the population, and to
strengthen urban planning and service delivery institutions, particularly those of local
government. The scope of these urban activities was subsequently broadened to include
medium-sized cities.
2.    The Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP), prepared in 1982-83, identified land,
infrastructure and shelter development as the most critically neglected problems in the Bombay
Metropolitan Region (BMR). These had not been addressed by the Bank's earlier single-sector
urban projects in Bombay, which had focused on the transport, water supply and sewerage
sectors. The Project formed part of the Government of Maharashtra's (GOM) Affordable Low-
Income Shelter (ALIS) Program in the BMR for the period 1983/84-1989/90. This program's
long-term objective was to reduce the absolute number of households living in slums by
increasing the supply of affordable shelter particularly to the poor. BUDP also supported
GOM's efforts to improve policies and institutions affecting the management of urban
development.
Statement of Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the Project were as follows:
(a)  to increase the public supply of affordable land, infrastructure and shelter
particularly for low income families and small businesses;
(b)  to improve local government's financial and administrative capacity to deliver and
maintain services, particularly infrastructure created under BUDP;
(c)  to strengthen the government's institutional capacity to plan, coordinate,
implement, and evaluate BUDP projects. programs, and policies, and
to replicate the achievements;



- 2 -
(d)   to improve public sector cost recovery and to reduce in a major way public and
private costs of shelter investments through more efficient and equitable land use
planning and pricing policies and more appropriate performance-oriented design
standards, development control and building regulations; and
(e)   to direct a larger proportion of private investment in land servicing and shelter
construction into low cost units for low income families.
4.     These objectives were translated into physical and investment targets as shown in
Table 11. Objectives (a) and (d) were directly and substantially supported by the investment
program. Objective (b) was partly supported by the investment program and technical assistance
component. Objective (c) was supported through the broadly defined technical assistance and
training component. However, objective (e) entailed legislative reforms, particularly in the Rent
Control Act and Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act.
Table 1. Bombay Urban Development Project
Project Components
Original SAR (1985)               Restructured (Dec. 1990)
COMPONENTS                 Physical    Financial    % Total  Physical   Financial          % Totial
__________________________            (Rs crores)                       (Rs crores)
1. Land Infrastructure     85,000            196.3         69  88,000             366.3         67
Servicing Program (LISP)    plots                              plots
of which:                  Not incl.                                            (109.2)        (20)
I a. New Infrastructure
works
2. Slum Upgrading Program   100,000           53.4         19  60,000              21.6           4
(SUP)                      house-                              house-
holds                               holds
3. Local Government                           30.8         11                     146.5          27
Finance Administration &
Services (LOGFAS)
of which:                  Not incl.
3a. Additional services for
12 BMR towns.
4. Technical Assistance,                        1.9         1                      10.0           2
Training & Equipment
(TATE)
TOTAL                                        282.4        100            1        544.4         100
5.     The Project was formally restructured in December 19902 because only 37 percent of the
Credit had been disbursed at its original closing date (September 1990). A three-year extension
of the closing date was proposed and additional infrastructure investments costing about US$ 35
I/  Further details for physical targets (appraisal, revised and actual) are given in Part 11; Table 5.
2/  A memorandum (No. R90-156) dated 14 December 1990, seeking approval for the restructuring was submitted to the
Board.



- 3 -
million, such as water supply and storm drainage were included in the project scope. The Credit
was also redistributed within categories, but no partial cancellation was envisaged at that point.
The respective scopes of LISP linked to off-site infrastructure and that of LOGFAS was
considerably increased as part of the restructuring, while the SUP target was reduced and the
funds allocated to it cut by US$ 35 million (Part II, Table 5). Other BMR municipalities were
also brought within the scope of the project.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.     Although the objectives remained valid and unchanged throughout the life of the Project,
the emphasis shifted away from slum upgrading to municipal services and infrastructure when
the project was restructured. Looking back, it is clear that these objectives although ambitious,
were correct, given the problems identified at the time of project preparation. While the
importance of urban land and rent policy changes was widely recognized, given their highly
political nature, it was unrealistic to expect that these reforms could be achieved as a result of
pressure from the Bank through the limited leverage of the Project alone (para. I 1).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Physical Components
7.     The LISP component (accounting for nearly 70 percent of disbursements), comprised
sites and services schemes that predominantly developed 25-40 square meter sized plots with
access to public utilities and community facilities. The plots were sold at prices that varied
according to size, location and access to amenities. A covenant in the Project Agreement obliged
GOM to ensure that at least 55 percent of the plots were sold to households at or below the
Bombay poverty line. The LISP physical targets were fully met, but were achieved over nine
instead of the expected five years. However, the SUP target was achieved only to the extent of
22 percent of the SAR target, despite the four-year extension of the project period. The physical
and financial progress of these components are given in Table 2.
Table 2. Project Implementation Performance
SAR Original    Re3tructured (Dec. 1990)      Attual        Actutl a % of r*0autuad
Conpenent        Physical   Financial   Physical   financial    Physicat   Feancaal    Physkial   .01 .
(Rs creres)          (Rs crares)           (Ps traes)            ___-_-X
1. + la LISP     85,000         196.3  88,000          366.3  87,743       297.7       99.7           8I
plots                plots                 plots
2. SUP           100,000         53.4  60,000           21.6  22,204         7.5       37.0           35
households           households             households
3. LOGFAS                        30.8                  146.5 7             118.1          -           81
4. TATE (including                1.9                  10.0  .              12.5                     125
MEIP             _                                                _                             _
BUDP Total                      282.3                  544.4  _   _435.8                              80
* MEIP: Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program



-4-
Slum Upgrading Program
8.     This component was intended to cover in-situ improvements for about 100,000
households, living mainly within the BMC area and accounting for about 12 percent of total
number of households estimated to be living in hutments in 1981. The component consisted of
infrastructure improvements, loans for home improvement and leasehold tenure.
9.     The component proved very difficult to implement for a number of reasons, which boil
down to the lack of a strong constituency for in-situ slum upgrading on a cost-recovery basis.
First, the scheme was undermined by several parallel programs that financed essential
infrastructure in slums, or provided new, free (or almost-free) housing to slum dwellers. A
substantial proportion of the target slums for SUP were thus reassigned to the Prime Minister's
Grant Project, launched in 1987, which provided nearly Rs. 60 crores to GOM for slum
relocation as well as in-situ improvements. The GOM budget also allocated Rs. 3 million per
year to each Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for slum improvement grants in their
constituencies. Second, most of the slums were on land that had been classified for other public
uses. Reclassifying the land use encountered resistance from MHADA/BMC, which would have
preferred this land to have remained in the public, non-residential domain for future development
by these public agencies. Third, in-situ improvements were also disliked by their staff because
they did not lead to public works contracts for them to administer. Finally, granting legal tenure
to slum dwellers was also disliked by some local politicians as it diminished their influence
because slum dwellers relied on these politicians to protect them from eviction.
10.    The project's approach to slum upgrading thus did not serve as a model for other
schemes. On the contrary, politicians encouraged slum dwellers to opt for 'free' schemes and
their demonstration effect (even if demand far outstripped supply), reduced community demand
for the Bank-funded SUP. Programs requiring unsustainable levels of subsidies, quite contrary
to BUDP principles and approaches, thus became more popular amongst the target beneficiaries.
11.    With hindsight, it appears that the decision taken at the time of project restructuring
(December 1990) to retain this component3 in the project was not justified. It should have been
canceled4 because the nature and extent of the obstacles to implementing SUP was apparent to
Bank and Project staff by that stage. In August 1991, a letter from the Bank to the Metropolitan
Commissioner, BMRDA, stated that tenure for slum dwellers was as important as physical
improvements and contained a warning that the Bank would "discontinue financing" the SUP
component in the absence of remedial action. However, this threat was not acted upon, even
though it would appear5 that no further slum households benefited from the project over the
remaining three years of implementation.
3/  Albeit with a 40 percent reduction in the target number of households to 60,000.
4/  However, it should be recognized that there would probably have been considerable reluctance on the part of the Bank as
well as GOI to explicitly recognize that the SUP was a failure due to the power of vested interests which could not be
overcome.
5/  The Bank's letter of August 22, 1991 states that about 22,000 households had been covered by SUP at that point. The
total number of benefiting households at loan closure in September 1994 was unchanged.



Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
12.   Objective (b) was addressed through the Local Government Finance and Administrative
Systems (LOGFAS) component and partly supported by the Technical Assistance, Training and
Equipment (TATE) component. The technical capacity of BMRDA, MHADA and CIDCO to
formulate, plan and implement projects was strengthened during the Project. Nevertheless,
experience with this project has shown that the ability of BMRDA and GOM to successfully
coordinate large, multi-agency programs remains weak. Hence, the overall achievement of this
objective can only be considered as partial.
13.   Objectives (b) and (c) were supported by a large number of studies and consultant
services (Part II, Table-7). In particular, technical assistance succeeded in significantly
developing institutional capacity in the following areas:
(a)   formulation and evaluation of land development projects targeted mainly towards
low-income beneficiaries through the use of computer-based models in BMRDA,
MHADA and CIDCO;
(b)   use of a computerized lottery system for beneficiary selection and commercial
accounting for monitoring and collection of accounts receivable in MHADA;
(c)   use of a network-based, computerized Project Management System and
computerized tracking of procurement, expenditure and Credit utilization in
BMRDA; and
(d)   introduction of a Geographic Information System (GIS) for use in regional land
use planning, transportation, other infrastructure planning and environmental
management activities in BMRDA.
14.   As a municipal finance agency, BMRDA made effective use of computerized Finance
and Operations Plan (FOP) models for loan appraisals. On the other hand, the organization and
management studies carried out under the TATE component for MHADA, the Thane Municipal
Corporation (TMC), the Kalyan Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the Navi Mumbai Municipal
Corporation (NMMC) have had very little institutional impact. While the studies were good,
they were not utilized by the implementing agencies.
15.   The project's cost reduction objective was directly related to LISP. This objective was
addressed by obtaining GOM's approval to modify land use and design standards for LISP.
Similar standards were later incorporated in the Development Control Regulations (1991) of the
revised Development Plan of Bombay, thus substantially meeting this objective. The project
demonstrated that in the metropolitan shelter sector, increasing the supply of affordable serviced
land through modifications in land use regulations and provision of trunk infrastructure to
promote private land development for all income groups is fundamental. The direct investment
by public agencies in land development was an important part of the overall strategy with
important demonstration effects.



-6 -
Reform of Sector Policies
16.   There was limited success in directing a larger proportion of private investment in land
servicing and shelter construction into low cost units for the poor (Objective e). These actions
depended on legal and sectoral reforms in rent control, property tax and urban land ceilings,
which have not taken place. They were considered essential for achieving the long-term
objectives of ALIS, but no specific actions were explicitly included in the project conditionality.
The Bank expected GOM to pursue these reforms in parallel with the project.
17.   BMRDA and GOM, also attempted several times to implement a pilot scheme of 'Guided
Land Development' to attract private investment for low-income housing construction within the
existing legal framework with financial support from the Project. However, as a first step,
BMRDA was to develop sites and services on land acquired though compensatory acquisition.
This scheme could not be implemented successfully either because of the refusal of landowners
to give up their properties. Then, BMRDA changed its approach to guided land development,
and began promoting commercial development at a district center. Under this modified
approach, land was acquired notionally by GOM and returned to the owners provided they
agreed to develop it along the guidelines set by BMRDA. In the end, this approach stimulated
land assembly, public use and the commercial development of the district center as originally
envisaged by BMRDA. Presently, BMRDA is using FSI as incentive and mechanism to bring
about guided development, e.g. landowners get bonus FSI if they agree to allocate a portion of
their land to smaller plots for the poor. Hence, GOM has not given up on guided land
development but rather has enlarged its scope as part of its land policy mechanisms. Since then,
BMRDA has extended the concept of Guided Land Development which is based on incentives in
the form of development rights in its draft Regional Plan'.
18.   The Project Appraisal team sought amendments to the Rent Control and BMC Acts in the
second half of 1983, prior to negotiations. Even at that stage, DEA had advised GOM that rent
control reform was outside the scope of the issues which were relevant to the IDA interest in
project7. Since rent control reform by any single state raised national issues, GOI felt that they
should not be a condition of negotiations. Nevertheless, the Decision Memo issued after the
review of the Issues Paper records that 'GOM should be requested to furnish IDA with a
statement of intention prior to negotiations which should include its detailed action plan for rent
control reform and a reasonable timeframe within which this objective would be achieved'. The
subsequent letter from the Bank to GOI conveyed these conditions of negotiations8.
19.   GOM attempted to satisfy this condition by drafting legislative amendments by the time
the Bank was ready to negotiate the Credit following Loan Committee clearance in January
1984. However, DEA formally responded to the Bank's insistence on a statement of intent by
stating that 'it is not the policy of GOI or the state government to submit statement of intentions
6/ Draft regional plan for the Bombay Metropolitan Region, 1991-201 1, BMRDA, 1994.
7/ Para. 23 of the Issues Paper dated 13 September 1983.
8/ Letter from the Country Programs Division Chief to the Joint Secretary, Di A, dated 31 October, 1983.



since it is not possible for any government to commit the legislature in this manner'. There was
no progress on this issue during the first half of 1984.
20.   Thereafter, Bank staff attempted for several months to find a compromise which would
enable negotiations to take place. Finally, in October 1984, the Regional Management sought
and obtained the approval of the Senior Vice President. Operations (SVPO) to proceed with
negotiations, even without a statement of intentions, on the grounds that these reforms were not
critical in the short term to the financial viability of the project'. However, the SVPO suggested
that the project size be reduced and GOI be advised that the Bank 'would not be prepared to
undertake further lending for urban housing projects whose long-term viability is affected by rent
control, unless satisfactory progress is made by GOM in enacting the envisaged amending
legislation"'.
21.   The negotiations were completed in December 1984, eleven months after initial Loan
Committee approval. The GOI delegation succeeded in convincing the Bank to retain the
original size of the project without giving any specific assurance on rent control and property tax
reform. The agreed minutes of negotiation record that 'rent control reform was an important
objective of the Government, as reflected in the Approach Paper of the Seventh Five-year Plan,
and there was every intention to achieve this objective during the Seventh Plan Period'.
22.   In conclusion, it would appear that while there was agreement on the importance of
reforms between the Bank and Government officials at a technocratic level, the political risks to
any government in Maharashtra of such reforms were not adequately taken into account. The
Bank made a concerted attempt to promote these reforms and the unusually long delay in
negotiating the project shows the extent of the efforts made. However, the political power of the
'renters lobby' which has prevented any reform in the State till today, should have been apparent
to both sides even at that time. The Project showed the futility of using a single investment
project to leverage major reforms when the political commitment does not exist. Nevertheless,
although ULCA and RCA were not repealed, partial reforms did take place at the State level.
Some exemptions to the ULCA were given provided the landowner was prepared to develop land
in a manner similar to sites-and-services. There were also some minor changes to the RCA.
Additionally, BUDP tried to change existing standards that governed the land development
process which limited public-private partnership and raised the cost of housing for the poor.
Under the Project, the Bank succeeded in obtaining a GOM sanction to modify land use and
design standards of the LISP component. The LISP provided serviced sites, including
community facilities, core houses and housing expansion loans to over 110,000 households of
which the majority were in lower income groups. Similar standards were later incorporated into
the 1991 Development Control Regulations of the Revised Plan of Bombay. With regard to the
acquisition of land for slums under the SUP component, although these were planned prior to
project approval, the Project encountered many unanticipated problems, such as the coastal zone
management plan (excluded coastal land), ban on quarrying for reclamation materials, changes of
9/ Memo from the RVP to the SVPO, dated 23 October, 1984.
10/ The Bank ignored its own self-declared ban on further lending by proceeding with other urban projects in India even
though there was no progress in rent control reforrn.



- 8 -
reservations in the master plan for the transfer of tenure (the master plan was concurrently under
revision at the time of project preparation), etc.
Financial Objectives
23.   The Project's financial objectives included affordable pricing for low income
beneficiaries, while ensuring full cost recovery, and the charging of real interest rates to
beneficiaries. These have been substantially achieved. Households were granted loan funds for
part of the cost of the plots at unsubsidized conditions (12 percent interest rate over 20 years).
Some problems were inevitably encountered with loan repayments by beneficiaries, but these
have not jeopardized inflows to the BMRDA Revolving Fund (para. 24). Internal cash
generation by the project in the sites and services component exceeded the minimum 50 percent
of project costs projected at appraisal. This is due to income derived from the much higher than
projected sale prices and revenues generated by the sale of middle and upper income residential
and commercial plots.
24.   In addition, the BMRDA-BUDP Revolving Fund was created in BMRDA in 1988, in part
to assist the agency in developing the capacity for financial intermediation in the area of
municipal infrastructure. The Revolving Fund is fed by 45 percent of the principal to be repaid
by the implementing agencies to GOM and is intended for use in financing future programs
similar to BUDP. Annual inflows are currently about Rs. 20 crores and approved loans (at 12
percent for 15 years) to BMR municipalities to date amount to Rs. 32 crores.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
25.   The project was designed as a program consisting of discrete components. The ERR was
not therefore worked out for the overall project, but was estimated for representative sub-projects.
The SAR estimated a weighted average rate of return based on prototype LISP and SUP sites to
be 20.4 percent (17.9 percent and 31.0 percent, respectively). The LISP ERR was estimated to
range from 13 percent in Thane-Kalyan areas to 18 percent in Greater Bombay and 27 percent in
New Bombay. The methodology adopted included all costs net of taxes, and took as economic
benefits the rental values of residential, commercial and institutional plots. Following a similar
methodology, the ERRs for three representative sites in Thane, Greater Bombay and New
Bombay have been re-estimated on the basis of actual costs incurred (net of taxes), market prices
and rental values at the time of first allotment of plots. The re-estimated ERRs work out to be
42.7 percent, 33.5 percent and 40.9 percent respectively (Part II: Table-9). Despite the longer
period of construction, the ERRs are higher on account of the substantial increase in real estate
prices and rental values in the BMR. The SAR estimate of the ERR was based on land sale prices
of Rs 45-600 per sq. meter while the ex-post ERR has been calculated using Rs 750-4500 per sq.
meter. Other non-quantified benefits from the project include:
(a)   substantial private investment in building construction;
(b)   considerable employment generation through small contractors who built single-
storied simple structures for low-income cooperatives; and



- 9 -
(c)   poverty alleviation.
The ERRs of individual schemes in SUP were also above the SAR estimates, mainly because of
the substantial increase in real estate rental values and the transfer of land tenure being an
integral part of SUP.
Social Objectives and Gender Concerns
26.   The social objectives of the project focused on poverty alleviation and the lack of access
of the poor to urban services. In particular, the LISP component had an explicit target of 45 to
55 percent of plots to be allocated to families below the poverty line, and 10 to 20 percent of
plots for income groups immediately above the poverty line. A comparative profile of LISP
beneficiaries and income distribution based on household survey carried out for BMR" in 1989
showed that this objective was met in terms of number of sites developed and the beneficiary
proportions. Similarly, under SUP, a large proportion of beneficiaries were below the poverty
line, as confirmed in the base line surveys carried out by the BMRDA. While no formal survey
has been conducted on plot resales, the percentage is likely to be about 15-20 percent. Plot
layout and sizes have limited the transfers to the same low-income income group, with newer
migrants buying plots from more established residents with already existing housing
arrangements. The reason for this is that the eligibility criteria used for selection of household
required a minimum period of residency in the city. This left out a large category of poor
households who are recent migrants to the city and in search of a more stable residence.
Although the project did not have any explicit gender objectives, the Borrower adopted a policy
of granting land tenure under SUP jointly to both the spouses of a household.
Environmental Objectives
27.   The project was prepared in 1982-83, at which time environmental concerns were not
explicitly addressed. Nevertheless to the extent that the project provided basic infrastructure
services, it had beneficial environmental impacts. LOGFAS investments, particularly in storm
water drainage, assisted in flood prevention.
28.   Moreover, a set of environmental studies for the Bombay Metropolitan Region were
included in the scope of the restructured project as part of the Bank-executed Metropolitan
Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP). These studies were successfully implemented
under the TATE component. They were:
a)    an environmental management strategy for the Bombay region;
b)    integrated environmental management of the Chembur-Thane-Belapur industrial
as; and
c)    a solid waste management study.
H/ Multipurpose household survey conducted jointly by ORG and BMRDA, 1990.



- 10-
A considerable number of follow-up investments and policy initiatives emerged from this work.
Some have been taken up by the private sector, but there are several which the Government of
Maharashtra and donors could support in the areas of solid waste management and water supply
improvements, low cost sanitation and hazardous waste treatment.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29.   There were two sets of factors outside government control which had a significant effect
on project implementation. These were the communal disturbances and bomb blasts in Bombay
during the short period between December 1993 and February 1994, and the continuous
depreciation of the Rupee, particularly after the Gulf War in 1991. Between Effectiveness and
Credit closing, the SDR strengthened by about 285 percent against the Rupee while the Indian
Consumer Price Index rose much less (about 220 percent). Hence the amount of the Credit
available in real terms rose sharply. Credit utilization in SDR terms (93.5 million) therefore
appears poor as compared to the initial SDR 137.7 million. On the other hand, spending in
Rupee terms (436 crores) was much higher than projected (Rs. 282 crores).
30.   Within government control were several factors that influenced project implementation.
First, efforts to reform the RCA and ULCA were ineffective. Second, the lack of government
commitment to the SUP approach led to the continuation of grant-based improvement schemes
and subsidized tenement programs which made SUP less attractive, and resulted in the limited
achievement of these objectives (para. 9). Third, although introduced for well-intentioned
environmental considerations, the general ban on quarrying and development of coastal wetlands
adversely affected project implementation because the LISP component depended on stone from
the closed quarries and also some of the area to be developed lay within the coastal wetlands.
Due to the absence of proper planning and administrative measures to resolve this problem,
implementation of LISP was considerably delayed. Fourth, the unrealistic policy of retaining
development plan reservations on slums held up the transfer of tenure to slum dwellers'
cooperatives.
31.   Of the factors within the control of implementing agencies, several had an important
impact on implementation. First, with the exception of MHADA, implementing agencies
administered BUDP as a part of their other ongoing activities. This resulted in insufficient
attention being given to BUDP. Realizing the need for closer monitoring and review, BMC
subsequently assigned these responsibilities to the Chief Engineer of the Project Planning and
Monitoring Cell, and Additional Municipal Commissioner after 1990. Second, delays in bid
evaluation and decisions regarding award of contracts by the Standing Committee have been
chronic problems in BMC. Although BMRDA produced monthly reports which compared
progress vis-a-vis annual targets, it lacked the authority to introduce the necessary measures to
speed up contract award. The Technical and High Power Committees constituted by GOM were
largely ineffective in enforcing recommended actions.
32.   The Project was conceived more as a program based on prototype projects rather than as a
conventional fully designed investment project where the entire investment is appraised upfront.
Certain deviations in the costs were therefore inevitable. Estimation of physical quantities, base
unit costs and price contingencies were largely adequate. In fact, there were initial cost



underruns, particularly in land reclamation. However, as the initial IDA Credit was determined
using a constant exchange rate, significant rupee depreciation meant that an increase in
investments in rupee terms could be supported without difficulty by the Credit. The project
closed with a rupee expenditure of Rs. 435.81 crores (US$214.3 million) as against Rs. 282.3
crores (US$256.7 million) estimated in the SAR, but with a corresponding Credit utilization of
SDR 93 million (US$124.9 million) instead of SDR 137.7 million (US$138 million) estimated in
the SAR. The Project was implemented through 1,327 contracts, out of which 1,248 smaller
contracts were awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. The
performance of contractors was generally satisfactory, although in most cases there was some
time overrun.
33.   The SAR estimated a 6.5 year implementation period. However, achieving the LISP
target could only be accomplished with the extension of the credit closing date by four years to
September 1994, for reasons given in para. 35. Some project completion works continued up to
May 1995.
34.   According to the initial SAR disbursement profile, SDR 137.7 million was to be fully
utilized by September 1990. However, actual disbursement at that time was only SDR 40
million (42.8 percent - Part II, Table 4a). Subsequently, there have been two cancellations. SDR
37 million in December 1991 and SDR 7.20 million in May 1993. By June 1994 the remaining
SDR 93 million was fully disbursed before the final closing date of September 1994.
35.   The reasons for the project delays were as follows:
(a)   Although the original implementation schedule appeared appropriate at that time
in order for the project to have a significant sectoral impact, the delays that have
occurred during implementation have shown it to have been unrealistic;
(b)   many of the delays were due to weak and uncommitted coordination at the
government level which failed to resolve issues in a timely manner. For example,
substantial land for LISP was allotted to MHADA only after being made a
condition for Credit extension;
(c)   the ban on quarrying and the restrictions on reclaiming coastal wetlands added to
the other administrative problems faced by the Project;
(d)   there was an inordinate delay in deciding the policy of granting tenure to slums
located on land reserved for public purposes under the Development Plan;
(e)   of the implementing agencies, BMC encountered major problems in the selection
of contractors and had generally slow and inefficient procurement practices. For
example, it used 120 to 150 days as the bid validity period instead of the normal
90 days; and
(f)   Frequent changes of key personnel and staff, particularly from the Indian
Administrative Service cadre have been a common problem in implementing
long-term programs. This has also been true of important engineering positions



- 12-
in BMC and MHADA. The continuity of key personnel is critical to ensure
commitment to project objectives.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.   The project is unlikely to be sustainable because of the lack of political and institutional
commitment to its approach. BUDP, with its emphasis on cost recovery, and offering products
with limited visibility encountered difficulty in evoking political commitment, particularly as
regards major legislative reforms. Frequent changes in leadership at the institutional level also
contributed to this difficulty.
37.   The Project would be sustainable only if Government demonstrates commitment to the
project's approach and objectives, which has not been the case for slum upgrading.
Sustainability and replicability of future sites and services schemes would be enhanced if they
did not have to rely on governmental land, whose supply in the BMR is now limited For that
purpose, mechanisms such as Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) and other land policy
innovations promoting land assembly through private sector and servicing will be of crucial
importance.
38.   The replicability of the project's off-site infrastructure investments will require greater
participation by private financial intermediaries. The BUDP Revolving Fund managed by
BMRDA (para. 24), could serve as a catalyst for a larger financial intermediation function by
BMRDA in support of urban infrastructure investments. The prospects for the sustainability of
the Revolving Fund are good and the main implementing agencies have accumulated substantial
financial resources as a result of their participation in the LISP component. They are therefore in
a position to replicate this scheme, provided adequate public land is available.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   Apart from a few shortcomings, Bank performance was generally satisfactory in the
identification and preparation of the project. Bank performance at appraisal and supervision
performance are rated as "marginally satisfactory" (paras. 41 and 42). At the identification stage,
the Bank correctly diagnosed the problems in the urban sector. It carried out two key studies in
1980 which helped identify the priorities and policy issues which had not yet been addressed by
the Bank's involvement in other sectors. These studies helped develop consensus on the project's
approach during the preparation phase.
40.   Given the multi-sectoral issues faced in project design, project preparation was
strengthened by the participation of an interdisciplinary team with expertise in physical and
environmental planning, municipal engineering, solid waste management, financial analysis and
urban economics. Bank staff worked with the local team to formulate the project design and did
not propose the use of consultants for formal preparation. This contributed to borrower
ownership and commitment, particularly by BMRDA, which was the coordinating agency.
However, the Bank appears to have overestimated implementation capacity at the time of
appraisal and did not anticipate that the project would be handled by the implementing agencies
as part of 'normal' business at a sluggish pace.



- 13 -
41.    The Bank also unsuccessfully attempted to use the Project as a vehicle to bring about
legislative changes, even though GOM had expressed its inability to give any assurances on
legislative matters. This delayed negotiations by nearly one year without producing a firm GOM
commitment in this area. Eventually, the Bank's pre-condition for negotiations was dropped in
lieu of 'satisfactory progress' being made by the state in amending the relevant legislation"2. In
retrospect, attempting to achieve such far-reaching and politically sensitive policy changes by
holding up the Project was perhaps naive. More attention might have been given to alternative
ways of achieving some of the same effects.
42.    In all there were 19 supervision missions. These missions contributed significantly to
maintaining the momentum of the project, and supporting the project coordinating mechanism.
BMRDA found that the analysis of the status of the Project reflected in the supervision aide-
memoires strengthened their ability to follow up on some difficult issues with GOM and other
implementing agencies. Of these missions, 13 took place to September 1990, the original credit
closing date. Thereafter, the supervision effort slackened off in intensity and frequency. Oddly,
this happened soon after the formal restructuring, when there would have been grounds for an
enhanced supervision effort. During the last three years of its life, the project was not supervised
adequately (six short missions at long intervals).
43.    The change in supervision intensity may have been caused by the transfer of the Task
Manager to another Department. South Asia Country Department II did not assign a new task
manager and the original TM continued the supervision. Although continuity of the TM who
had established a strong rapport with the local counterpart team and promoted the project as a
collaborative effort was a positive feature, in retrospect it is concluded that the Bank should have
allocated more resources for supervision during the last years of the project. From the
documents included in the Project Files, it appears that the Project received insufficient attention
without much scrutiny, even when an exceptional fifth extension of closing date was agreed upon
by the Bank. In total, the 133 staff weeks (sw) devoted to supervision over nine years was
significantly less than the 175 sw estimated in the SAR for a shorter six and a half year period.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.    The Project had six implementing agencies (MHADA, CIDCO, BMC, TMC, KMC,
NBMC) plus a coordinating body (BMRDA) and four distinct components (LISP, SUP,
LOGFAS, TATE -- para 4). Performance varied according to agency and component and over
time. It is extremely difficult to integrate this degree of diversity into a single measure of
Borrower performance spread over a twelve-year period. Nevertheless, on balance, Borrower
performance in implementation is rated as marginally satisfactory, although this assessment
would not be justified for all implementing agencies. Whether the use of private agencies to
12/ There has been almost no progress in this area during the past decade. An Amendment to the Delhi Rent Control Act has
been prepared with the objective of introducing some flexibility in rent structures and encouraging house construction
activities. The proposed legislation would serve as a model to other states seeking to pass similar legislation. In 1986,
some reforms were introduced by GOM in the Rent Control Act, but they deal mainly with new properties. These changes
allow for a five year moratorium on rent restriction and thereafter limit the rents to a return of 15 percent per annum on the
cost of land and building at the time of first letting. In addition, the Model Rent Control Bill prepared by the GOl has not
yet been passed by the Maharashtra State Legislature.



- 14 -
implement the Project could have been more effective can be debated, but certainly the need for
coordination among multiple agencies is important. This was a critical function performed by
BMRDA under the Project, and was particularly important since many of the problems were of a
regulatory or legal nature, which would have been difficult for the private sector alone to sort
out. Moreover, may subprojects involved more than two agencies; it seems unlikely that a
private agency would have been the appropriate agency to conflict resolution.
45.   The technical inputs of BMRDA's planning unit in identifying preparing and appraising
the project were satisfactory. Government also demonstrated its initial commitment to the
project by appointing the interdepartmental coordinating committee. However, GOM
commitment to some Project goals later turned out to be lacking.
46.   In contrast to project preparation, Borrower performance during the implementation
phase suffered from several shortcomings. As a coordinating agency, BMRDA was strong in
identifying problems based on its Management Information System (MIS) but weak in enforcing
solutions. In 1985, BMRDA issued a reporting procedure manual which provides information on
various issues. These include agency performance outside BUDP, procurement, marketing and
allotment of plots, financial covenants and others. Unfortunately, the use of this manual was
limited to getting project specific expenditure data necessary for disbursement applications and
recovery of monthly dues. BMRDA maintained a highly satisfactory record of procurement
activity which formed the basis for the review of physical and financial progress by Bank
supervision missions. In consultation with the implementing agencies, BMRDA prepared a
yearly work program and translated it into monthly expenditure targets. Its monthly progress
reports compared the progress with these targets and brought out important issues to the attention
of heads of implementing agencies and government. However it did not have the powers to
enforce any of the decisions and the project coordinating mechanism got energized only during
the IDA supervision missions. Although the Chief of the Planning Division of BMRDA, the
main coordinating officer for the project, did not change for the entire duration of the project,
there were frequent changes in the membership of the High Powered Coordinating Committee,
BMRDA and other heads of implementing agencies. These changes adversely affected the
progress of the project and commitment to its objectives.
47.   The roles of the public and private sectors are complementary rather than adversarial.
The primary function of a metropolitan planning agency such as BMRDA is to provide an
effective framework for regional planning and development. It is clear from past experience that
at least two conditions are necessary to enable these agencies to perform this function effectively.
First, the agency must have sufficient political influence to perform its function effectively, and
second, it should have adequate financial resources to put in place a few strategic infrastructure
investments to which the market can respond to. Purely advisory agencies, such as a Council of
Governments, are too weak and not taken seriously. Metropolitan planning agencies play an
important role in laying the groundwork for private sector development by setting the rules of
development, financing a few strategic investments, and facilitating the process of land use and
building (zoning, subdivision regulations, etc.) The private sector would not invest unless
governments provide these benefits under consistent and reasonable rules of engagement. In
fact, cities with strong urban growth management regulations have flourished economically and
have become very desirable places to live. It is precisely the cities with weak planning and



- 15 -
growth management that have stagnated. The market on its own cannot be expected to seriously
improve the urban environment, nor will it address poverty concerns. BMRDA has been an
effective metropolitan planning and development agency because it controls some resources that
enable it to perform the functions above. It is unlikely that the Bombay Metropolitan Regional
Plan would be taken seriously if BMRDA had not evolved as a serious player in the real estate
market. However, BMRDA's actions under the Project did not distort the land market and thus
crowd out private investment, because BMRDA's influence has been limited by the size of its
holdings13. The Agency has been able to generate resources from its activities with its land
holdings not because BMRDA owned a significant large amount of land overall in the city's real
estate market, but because of the fact that the real estate market was booming at the time
BMRDA owned the land (it has since effectively dropped to 50%). Moreover, BMRDA has no
intention to pursue a similar model or to operate in the land market in a big way. BMRDA has
since entered into partnership with the private sector (ICICI, HDFC, and IL&FS14) to set up a
financial intermediary to finance state-wide urban infrastructure, and to solve major sectoral
needs to support more efficient urban management. The success of this public-private
arrangement in the future will be worth watching.
48.   MHADA's performance on LISP was highly satisfactory, but barely satisfactory on SUP.
CIDCO's performance in LISP varied from being rated as satisfactory to deficient, particularly
on marketing of plots. BMC's performance on SUP was deficient. Implementation was stopped
in 1991 after the announcement of a 2.5 floor space index (FSI) scheme for slum redevelopment
as an alternative approach involving private real estate developers, but this has not yet had any
significant results either. Although BMC's performance on procurement was procedurally
correct, it encountered considerable delays in the pre-award and post-award stages, which
resulted in overall unsatisfactory performance. TMC and KMCs performance in implementing
LOGFAS was generally satisfactory. Overall it is rated as marginally satisfactory.
49.   Compliance with loan covenants was rated satisfactory with respect to procurement,
progress reports, accounts and audits, pricing and cost recovery. However, it was deficient in the
case of sector policies and institutional development. Overall, compliance with loan covenants
too is rated as marginally satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.   Despite the partial fulfillment of project goals, the overall outcome is assessed as
marginally satisfactory, principally because of the success of the project's largest component,
LISP. By meeting the objective of improving the supply of serviced public land to low-income
households, the project has enabled over half a million persons to benefit directly from the
investments undertaken by the project"5. The majority of the beneficiaries were close to, or
131  Bombay has 537 sq.km of land within the BMC of which BMRDA has only 150 acres (in Bandra-Kurla) at its disposal.
14/ ICICI: Industrial Credit and investment Corporation of India; HDFC: Housing Development Finance Corporation;
IL&FS Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited.
15/ This is a very conservative estimate, based on 88,000 plots under LISP and 22,000 households under SUP (Table 2) and
about 5 persons per family.



- 16-
below the poverty line. These benefits imply the transfer of real assets to the poor and the
project has thereby contributed to alleviating poverty. Finally, the ERR surpassed SAR estimates
and the project's financial targets have also been met.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
51.   The expenditure required to complete ongoing works after final Credit closing can be met
by the various agencies from their own resources. MHADA and CIDCO have generated cash
surpluses of Rs 93.8 crores (US$ 30.3 million) and Rs. 28.3 crores ( US$ 9.1 million)
respectively. These will be more than adequate to complete ongoing works. In addition
substantial revenue is expected from the sale of the balance of plots. For BMC, the expenditure
involved is rather small as compared to its annual budget. T MC has completed all works already
while KMC has already applied for financial assistance from the revolving fund established in
BMRDA. Given the resources available, it is possible to finance the completion of the project.
52.   The assets created in the project are in the form of municipal infrastructure. Adequate
institutional provisions have been ensured for their use and maintenance. No major problem is
envisaged in this regard.
53.   The BUDP program is linked to overall sector performance. If shelter supply remains
inadequate even for middle income groups, it is likely that plots meant for low income
beneficiaries in the project will get transferred to higher income groups. Hence, any future
evaluation will have to be of the sector as a whole and not of the Project alone. BMRDA is
attempting to develop a regional information system to provide a basis for such a periodic
evaluation.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
54.   This project has demonstrated that:
(a)   The design of urban development projects should explicitly take into account
socio-political factors that have a key impact on sector policies and where
possible alternative less ambitious reform options should be considered;
(b)   even holding up the processing of a substantial loan in support of investments is
insufficient to bring about required legal and institutional reforms (para. 18).
However important the reforms may be, they will only occur if there is sufficient
political will to confront the vested interests resisting them. Once a loan becomes
effective, attention is focused more on project-specific implementation objectives
at the expense of broader and politically difficult sectoral reforms;
(c)   the Bank should not undermine its credibility by making explicit policy
declarations to Borrowers and then ignore its own self-declared policy (para. 20);
(d)   a project's physical and financial objectives can be largely achieved despite
distorted sector policies. As a result of BUDP, about half a million poor people



- 17-
have benefited from serviced plots and housing loans financed by the project. The
implementing agencies have acquired substantial financial resources from plot
sales as a direct result of their participation in the project and are thus in a position
to replicate the physical achievements of the project (para. 51);
(e)   in order for such urban development programs involving multiple agencies to be
implemented efficiently , it is necessary to strengthen the planning, coordination
and management of urban services by these agencies. Improvement of
procurement practices is also essential (para. 35 (e) ); and
(f)   frequent changes of key personnel and staff, particularly from the Indian
Administrative Service cadre have been a common problem in implementing
long-term programs. This has also been true of important engineering positions in
BMC and MHADA. The continuity of key personnel is critical to ensure
commitment to project objectives.
55.   Most of these lessons are equally relevant for other urban and infrastructure projects in
India.



- 18-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.. Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                 I          i 1          1
Sector policies                                           *            [1          1
Financial objectives                          *                        I           I
Institutional development                     I                       [ II
Physical objectives                           *                         i
Poverty reduction                             1           *            I
Gender issues                                 II I                                 U
Other social objectives                       I I                      I I
Environmental objectives                      I I         *            1           1
Public sector management                      i
Private sector development                     I                 I       I I
Other (specify)
A  A0 &PrjectSustaittability                           Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly                      Marginally
C. Bank Performance                            Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                i]        *               I I            I I
Preparation assistance                        I I       U               I iI
Appraisal                                     1:          i                            II
Supervision                                   11         1             *
Highly                      Marginally
Dl Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                   I I                                         I I
Implementation                                1I I
Covenant compliance                           i i         I                             H I I
Operation (if applicable)                     iI I
Highly                     Marginally                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
[1  II             U            II               II11   1



- 19 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                      Ln./Cr.             Purpose            Year of       Status
Number.                               Approval
A. Preceding Operations
*  Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage  Cr. 390-IN    Water supply and        1974           Completed
Project                                         conveyance sewers in
Greater Bombay
*  Second Bombay Water supply and     Cr. 842-IN    Water supply and waste  1979          Partially
Sewerage Project                                water treatment and                   completed.
disposal in Greater                   Residual
Bombay                                works now
proposed at
B.3
*  Third Bombay Water Supply and      Ln. 2769-IN   Expand water supply by   1987         On-going
Sewerage Project                   Cr. 1750-IN  455 mld in Greater
Bombay
*  Bombay Urban Transport Project     Ln. 1335-IN   Augmentation of bus    1977           Completed
fleet, depots &
workshops, traffic
management & fly-over
in Greater Bombay
*  Maharashtra Water Supply Project    Cr. 899-IN    Water supply and      1979           Completed
Sewerage in Thane-
Kalyan-Bhiwandi
subregion
B. Following Operations
*  Bombay Urban Transport 11                       Improvement in railway                 Preparation
commuter networks,                    in progress
traffic and
transportation
management in BMR
*  Bombay Urban Resettlement and                                                          Preparation
Rehabilitation                                                                        under way
*  Bombay Sewerage Disposal Project                Sewerage disposal                      Under
through deep marine                   preparation
outfalls and aerated
lagoons
*  Fourth Bombay Water Supply and                  Develop middle                         Under
Sewerage Project                                Vaitarna for additional               preparation
water supply 450 mid.
*  Maharashtra Water Supply Project -              To augment water                       Under
Stage II                                        supply to Thane Kalyan                preparation
Bhiwandi areas by
developing Peshir water
works



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetables
Date Planned                Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              January 1981
Preparation                                                          June 21 -July 3, 1982
Appraisal                                                           June 27-July 17, 1983
Negotiations                                                           November 1984
Board Presentation                                                    January29, 1985
Signing                                                                March 1, 1985
Effectiveness                                                          August 22, 1985
Project Completion                             March 1990              March 31, 1995
Credit Closing date (original)             September 30, 1990
First Extension with telex of 9/28/90 to                             September 30, 1991
Second Extension with telex of 10/25/91 to                             March 31, 1992
Third Extension with telex of 03/31/92 to                            September 30, 1992
Fourth Extension with telex of 10/14/92 to                           September 30, 1993
Fifth Extension with telex of 09/28/93 to                            September 30, 1994
Actual Credit closing date                                           September 30, 1994
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY-85 EY-86 FY-87 FY-88 FY-89 FY-90 FY-91  FY-92 FY-931 FY94
Appraisal Estimate    5,500 31,700 74,100 110,700 129,900 136,900 138,000
Actual                      7,109 11,573 21,273 34,745 48,798 62,964 21,308 101,371 124,889
Actual as % of SAR
Estimate               0%    22.4   15.6   19.2  26.7   35.6   45.6
Date of Final Disbursement: May 17, 1994



- 21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Targets
Actual
Components/Agencies                                           SAR           Revised         September
1994
I. Land Infrastructure Servicing Program (LISP)                  85,000         88,000             87,743
of which:
(a) MHADA Greater Bombay: Serviced sites                         40,000         55,200             55,297
(b)          Thane/Kalyan: Serviced sites                        25,000          3,800              4,709
BMC Greater Bombay: Offsite Infrastructure                                                 Completed
and Community Facilities
Rehabilitation of Water Mainst ***                                                   Partly Completed
Priority Storm Water Drainage Works ***                                Transferred to other Bank project
Waste Water Treatment (Aerated Lagoons) **
Water Supply to Eastern Suburbs ***                                                        Completed
(c) CIDCO New Bombay: Serviced sites and Infrastructure          20,000         29,000             27,737
Master Balancing Reservoir at Shil and Transmission                                        Completed
Mains ***
Drawl if 30 nld water from Patalganga ***                                                  Completed
2. Slum Upgrading Program (SUP)                                  100,00         60,000             22,204
of which:
(a) MHADA Greater Bombay: On Public Land                         70,000         40,000             21,604
(b)                          On Private Land                     10,000              0                  0
(c) BMC on MCGBI Land                                            20,000         20,000                600
3. Local Government Finance Administration and Services                    in Rs. Crores
(LOGFAS)
Equipment and Civil Works for improving the
maintenance
of municipal services in BMC, NMMC, TMC and KMC
Equipment                                                       197                               350
Road Maintenance                                                 24            New                  26
Solid Waste Management                                          123           works
Sewerage Maintenance                                             50        added as                 23
Water Maintenance                                                 0          perthe                  9
Fire Fighting                                                     0           study                 68
Others                                                            0           under                 25
Civil Works                                                                  TATE
Mahalaxmi Refuse Transfer Station                                                           Completed
Augmentation of Water Supply in Kalyan and Dombivali                                       Ongoing **
Storm Water Drainage Works in Thane & Kalyan ***                                            Completed
Improving & Developing Services in Municipal Councils                                      Ongoing **
4. Technical Assistance Training and Equipment (TA TE)
For improving the capacity of the project implementing                                      Completed
and coordinating agencies
Training                                                                                            9
Studies                                                           3                                23
Equipment-Computers                                                                                35
Note: ** Being funded by BMRDA from the BUDP Revolving Fund.
*** New works included in the project at time of restructuring (December 1990).
**** Metropolitan Environment Improvement Program included



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key Indicators for Project Operation were given in the SAR.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Name of Study                                Purpose as Agreed                           Status        Impact of Study
Organization Structure and Financial         Top design organizational structure and     Completed    Accounting system has been
Management Estate                            financial management systems for MlIADA                   implemented. Organizational study was
not acted upon.
Benchmark Study of Slum Upgradation Program    To establish pre-improvement conditions in the   Completed    Benchmark conditions were established.
slums be followed-up with a post                         But program not being implemented on
implementation study.                                    a large scale, post implementation study
has not been carried out.
Maharashitra Refuse Transfer Station feasibility    To design refuse transfer station in Bombay  Terminated   MBC did not agree with consultants
City.                                                    design. Project was redesigned and
executed without stationary compactors.
Study of plots advertisement awareness in    Due to low response to first advertisement of  Completed   The study concluded that the low
Chakop                                       LISP in Greater Bombay, MHADA proposed to                response was due to poor marketing
divert the smaller plots to the next higher              strategy and advertisement. The study
income group.                                            suggested that a wider circulation and
communication should improve the
response. MHADA adopted the
suggestion and received better response
for its future advertisements for low
income plots.
Urban Management for Municipal Corporation   Two separate Corporations were constituted in   Completed   Civil works and equipment identified for
of Thana and Kalyan                          1982 and 1983 for the newly areas of Thane               municipal maintenance services have
and Kalyan respectively. Two independent                 been procured under DIJBP. Other
studies were carried out for each of the                 recommendations have remained
Corporations to propose a development                    unimplemented.
management system, organization structure and
municipal finance systems.
Design of Water Supply Project for New       to prepare, design and cost estimates for                Project executed under BUDP.
Bombay using Patalganga as a source          augmenting water supply to New Bombay by
using Patalaganga as a source.
Mathematical Model for Siltation of Thane    To study the hydrological impact of landfill in    Completed   Other environmental impact of
Creek                                        the Thane Creek.                                         reclamation on mangroves and marine
life do not allow reclamation.
Municipal Services Requirement in 11         The Municipal Councils have been            Completed    BMRDA has commenced extending
Municipal councils                           experiencing rapid growth in population,                 financial assistance through the BUDP.
industrial and other economic activities. T hc           Revolving fund to the municipal council
purpose of the study was to develop FOP for              by using study recommendations for
each Municipal Council and identify capital              appraisal of loan application.
investment program based on service
requirement.
Geological Survey in Bombay Metropolitan     To estimate the building materials requiremcnt   Completed   The outcome of the study has been
Region                                       and identify geological appropriate location for         included in the draft Revised Plan for
quarrying stone/stand, weathered rock and clay           BMR - 2011, and environmental
for bricks.                                              protection guidelines issued.
Master Plan for Storm Water Drainage for     To prepare a master plan for Storm Water    Completed    Priority storm water drains and
Bombay                                       Drainage and of rehabilitation of old sewers              maintenance equipment were identified
and procured under BUDP.
Environmental Design and Site Planning at    Most of LISP sites in GB was on coastal     Completed    Site is being developed as per the
Charkop IV                                   wetlands. As the understanding of                        consultants layout and designs.
environmental effects of landfill were learnt.
layout planning was designed taking into
account various environmental and ecological
parameters like tidal impact zone, flora.
Solid Water management in Bhiwandi           To recommend improved solid waste collection   Completed   The council has not taken any follow-up
and dispatch practices.                                  action.



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project (cont'd)
Name of Study                                 Purpose as Agreed                           Status        Impact of Study
Study of Storm Water Drainage in Mira         To prepare a master plan of storm water     Completed    Priority investment on storm water
Bhyander                                      drainage and a pilot scheme of small bore                drainage supported by BMRDA from
sewers for conveyance of septic tank effluents.          BUDP: Revolving Fund
Design of Water Distribution Network in       To prepare water distribution network plan in  Completed   Part of works were financed from
Kalyan                                        conjunction with project of augmentation of              BUDP. Balance works are being
water supply of Kalyan and Dombivli.                     financed by BMRDA from BUDP:
Revolving Fund.
Audio-visual of Slums                         To prepare audio-visual presentation of slum  Completed    Audio-visual material used.
upgrading programn.
Feasibility Study - Vasai Virar Water Supply  To prepare preliminary designs and cost     Completed    BMRDA has decided to finance works
estimates of headworks, treatment plant, master          up to MBR as BOLT (build, Own,
balancing reservoir and distribution network,            Lease and Transfer).
and recommend financing, institutional and
tariff policy.
Municipal Services Requirement for Navi       To propose a development management         Completed   New Bombay municipal did not make
Mumbai & Panvel Municipal Corporations        system, organization structure and municipal             use of systems recommended. Panvel
finance systems for two municipal                        corporation has not yet been
corporations, namely New Bombay for                      established.
northem part and Panvel municipal corporation
for the southern part of New Bombay
Environment Management Strategy and Action    To formulate environmental management       Completed    High priority in infrastructure project
Plan                                          strategy for BMR.                                        and integrated arrangement required
for environmental coordination have
been recommended.
Integrated Urban and Environmental Study of   To identify on site emission reduction      Completed    Recommendation is under
Chembur and Thank-Belapur                     measures, urban infrastructure improvenments             consideration.
and formulate a disaster management plan .
Solid Waste Management Disposal in Great      To prepare a plan of action for collection.  Completed    An investment program of Rs 200 has
Bombay's bay                                  transportation and disposal of solid waste.              emerged.
Study of Storm Water Drainage in Pen          To prepare a storm water drainage master plan.   Completed   Priority works financed by BMRDA
from BUDP: Revolving Fund.



- 24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
_____________________  ppraisal: Estimate (US$ M)   Actual/latest Estimat USM
Local     Foreig     Total      Local      Freign     Toa
costs     costs                 costs      costs
Land Infrastructure          113.20      7.70     120.90     143.21       3.19     146.50
Servicing Program (LISP)
Slum Upgradation Program     32.60        1.40     34.00       3.55       0.00       3.55
(SUP)
Assistance to Local           14.70      3.70      18.40      26.53      14.23      40.76
Government (LOGFAS)
Technical Assistance           1.30      0.20       1.50       5.67       0.00       5.67
Training and Equipment
(TATE)
Design and supervision        17.00       1.50     18.50      16.47       1.48      17.95
Total Base Cost          178.80      14.50     193.30
Physical contingencies        12.50       1.30     13.80
Price contingencies          45.90       3.70      49.60
Total                     237.2       19.5     256.7    195.43       18.90     214.33
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisil Estimate (US$ M)     Actual/latest Estimate (IS$ M)
Local      Fioreign    Total    Local      Forein    Total
costs     costs                 costs      costs
IBRD/IDA                                          138.00                           124.89
Government of
Maharashtra                                       118.70                            89.44
Total                      237.2       19.5    256.70                           214.33



- 25 -
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
A methodology similar to the one used in the SAR was used to estimate the main benefits of the LISP
component for representative projects in Thane, Greater Bombay and New Bombay sub-regions. In
assessing the net economic benefits in terms of the economic rate of return (ERR), three representative
sites - Panchpakhadi (27.23 ha), charkop 1 (95 ha) and Kopar Khairane (I 17 ha) - out of the 22 developed
in the three sub-regions have been taken. all three representative sites are the largest in each of the sub-
regions.
The methodology adopted for the ERR estimation is as follows:
Costs:
(a) The costs are derived from the financial costs excluding taxes (7.3 percent as
assessed in the SAR).
(b) All chargeable and non-chargeable costs have been included, as in the SAR.
(c) No correction on the basis of shadow prices is done as all the construction materials
are procured at market prices and not at administered prices.
Benefits:
(a) The market value of land is derived from the location-specific property prices at the
time of the first advertisement of each site, as quoted in the 'Accommodation times',
a local newspaper specializing on land, housing and infrastructure.
(b) The market value of land, thus derived, is used to evaluate apartment plots in the
LISP component. Low income plots have less attractive location, narrower
frontages and limited potential for expanded construction. Hence, their market value
is one-third to two-thirds the market value of apartment plots, as reflected in
instances of informal resale by beneficiaries immediately after allotment. The
present analysis assumes that their value is approximately one-half of the price of
apartment plots.
(c) The annual benefits resulting from the development of these plots is evaluated at 15
percent of the total market value of the developed land.
(d) 25 percent of the plots are allocated in the first year, 25 percent in the second year,
and 50 percent in the third year.
The benefits are related to the market prices prevailing at the time of the first advertisements. If benefits
are corrected for subsequent increases, there would be a substantial increase in the benefit stream.



- 26 -
Table 9B: MHADA-PANCHPAKHADI - Economic Analysis (coont'd)
Y ea       EconomiAcst         Netaof Taxes    Economic Benefits     Net Beneflits
(-l  L a/d es      ( A s  L       _    _    _   _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __k h
0.073
1984               0.00               0.00
1985              50.05              50.05                                -50.05
1986              13.03              13.03                                -13.03
1987               3.33               3.09                                 -3.09
1988             155.06             148.12              57.36             -90.76
1989              59.98              55.66             114.72              59.05
1990             198.07             194.63             229.43              34.80
1991             150.55             144.06             229.43              85.37
1992              16.20              16.18             229.43             213.25
1993               4.50               4.29             229.43             225.14
1994               6.48               6.48             229.43             222.95
1995               2.22               2.22             229.43             227.21
1996                                                   229.43             229.43
1997                                                   229.43             229.43
1998                                                   229.43             229.43
1999                                                   229.43             229.43
2000                                                   229.43             229.43
2001                                                   229.43             229.43
2002                                                   229.43             229.43
2003                                                   229.43             229.43
2004                                                   229.43             229.43
2005                                                   229.43             229.43
2006                                                   229.43             229.43
2007                                                   229.43             229.43
2008                                                   229.43             229.43
__________  ___________ _____   _____ ___________E R R :          42.67
Tpe0              tpt. fPlots0     Commercial Plots  Low Income Plots Total Value
Area (Sq.Ms.)              58,081             2,947           70,096
Price (Rs/sq.m)             1,500             4,500              750
Total Value                871.22            132.62           525.72           1,529.56
(Rs.Lakhs)



- 27 -
Table 9C: CIIDCO-KOPAR KHAIRANE - Economic Analysis (coont'd)
Year       Economic Cost       Net of Taxes     Economic Benefits     Net Benefits
(Rs Lakhs)         (Rs Lakhs)
1987              85.98              79.70                                 -79.70
1988             811.60             761.41                                -751.41
1989             994.08             921.51                                -921.51
1990             992.75             920.66             511.13             -409.53
1991             455.82             423.19            1,022.26             599.08
1992             687.63             642.57            2,044.53           1,401.96
1993             341.65             317.08            2,044.53           1,727.45
1994             379.25             351.56            2,044.53           1,692.96
1995               0.00               0.00            2,044.53           2,044.53
1996                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
1997                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
1998                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
1999                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2000                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2001                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2002                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2003                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2004                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2005                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2006                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2007                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
2008                                                  2,044.53           2,044.53
ERR             40.86%
Type             Apt. Plots        Commercial Plots Low Income Plots Total Value
Area (Sq.Ms.)              35,7100          14,4307           23,7316
Price (Rs/sq.m)              1,500             4500               750
Total Value               5,356.50          6,493.82          1,779.87        13,630.19
(Rs.Lakhs)



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Type   Status lOtiginal    Description                          Comments
_____ __   __ _____ D ate
PA Schd. 2   2.01     4       C       Throughout  GOM's commitment to project
objectives set forth in Schedule 2
Development Credit Agreement, and
GOM to provide necessary
counterpart funds.
2        9       C       Throughout  Selection of sites for the land and
infrastructure servicing program and
the shlim upgrading program and
their plans, layouts, designs and
standards shall be satisfactory to
IDA.
3        12      NC      09/30/90     GOM  will aim to implement about   Impossible
10 percent of the slum upgrading  under existing
with households located on privately  laws.
owned land.
4        9       C        Throughout  The scope and timeframe in respect   Some
of a program of municipal services    improvements
and improvements in the           made without
development control and building  formal
regulations shall be implemented  agreement with
only after the recommendations of    IDA.
the consultants for the program have
been jointly reviewed and agreed
upon among GOI, GOM and IDA.
5        3       C       09/30/87     BMRDA will establish a revolving    IDA relaxed
revised     fund to be credited with 45 percent    revolving fund,
03/89       of the principal amounts to be repaid  eligibility to
by the implementing agencies to   include
GOM in repayment of amounts on-    municipal
lent to them by GOM to implement   infrastructure.
the project. the funds shall be treated
as a non-refundable loan and shall be
used for financing similar program in
future (para. 3.09)
6        5       NC       1986-87     MHADA shall (i) limit new          IDA's influence
investments in housing schemes    over MHADA's
(excluding repairs, reconstruction  non-IDA funded
and slum improvements) outside the   operations was
project to Rs 10 crore per year during  weak.
the peak period of the
implementation of the project and
use layouts, standards and
superstructure in any new schemes
outside the project based
substantially on the building and
development control regulations
prescribed for land infrastructure
servicing schemes under the project.



- 29 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agreement   Section   Type   Status  Original    Description                         Comments.
Date
PA Sched. 2   6        5      NC       1986-87      (a) minimize the average cost per    Ditto.
household for land development and
housing construction, and (b)
maximize the percentage of
households with incomes at or
below the absolute Bombay poverty
level in the range of 55% to 75% of
all beneficiary households.
7        2       CP      Throughout  MHADA and CIDCO will aim to        CIDCO's
achieve the following performance   collections were
targets by fiscal year 1987/88: (a)    not always
design, supervision of construction   satisfactory.
and management costs, including
support services, not to exceed 12%
of annual construction costs, (b)
accounts receivable hire purchase
and rental properties not to exceed
an average of 3 months billing, and
(c) estate management costs not
exceed 4% of rental and
installments receivable.
8        2       C       Throughout  GOM will aim, in respect to LISP    Revenues were
(i) to recover fully all chargeable    much higher
costs, and target beneficiary    than anticipated.
selection criteria and terms and
conditions of sales and leases for
residential, commercial, small
industry and other plots, and for
home improvement loans shall be
an agreement among GOI, GOM
and IDA, and (ii) on lending terms
to beneficiaries for serviced plots
and housing loans shall include inter
alia that interest shall be charged at
no less than 12% per annum GOM
will aim in respect of SUP.
11       9       CP      Throughout  BMRDA shall: (i) prepare and      Materials review
furnish to IDA not later than    requirement was
December 31 each year, an annual   unrealistic.
report of the progress of the
Affordable Low Income Sheiter
Program for that year, together with
proposals for actions required to be
taken to meet the targets for the
program for the following year, and
(ii) review every six months the
availability of materials and
financial requirements for ALIS
program (para. 3.20) (para. 11 of
Schedule 2 to Project Agreement).



- 30 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agreement   Section i Type. :Status  Original    Description                            Comments
_ _ _ _ _ _ :__            __   __ __ _ 0000    0  t  ;    X    t00  :D ate   __ ::_         :____________
PA Sched. 2   12       5       CP      Throughout  GOM shall cause the implementing    Difficulties
agencies to provide each year      experienced in
sufficient budgetary provisions for  monitoring.
adequate services maintenance in
areas benefited by the Project
PA Sched. 1  2.06      5       C       Throughout  GOM not to change subsidiary loan
agreements with CIDCO & BMC.
PA           2.08      5       C       Throughout  GOM to acquire and make available    Delay in land
land and rights for construction and  acquisition
operations of facilities under the  major was a
Project.                           major factor in
slow pace of
project
implementation.
PA           4.01      1       CD      Throughout  (i) project implementing agencies will
have their accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (ii) the
accounts and audits will be furnished
to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each agencies'
financial year (para. 3.19), (section
4.01 of Project Agreement).
Key:   C =    Full compliance
NC=   Not complied with
CP=    Partially complied with
CD=   Delayed compliance
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There are no significant cases of lack of compliance with OMS.



- 31 -
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                       Actual
Staff Weeks                      US$ thousand
Preappraisal through Board                                 164.7                           254.7
Supervision                                                133.3                           304.9
Completion                                                  10.0                             11.8
Total                                                     308.0                            571.4
Table 13: Bank Missions
Stage  f Project   :ale         No. of     ' Specialization        Performance       Problems
:Cycle     -,____            _    -Perso,.*                  -     ,Ra tb           .... _:.   _
Preparation             Jun 82       7       FA, UP
Mission
Pre-appraisal          Mar-83        5       FA, UP, FAD, ME,
PHE
Appraisal              July-83       7       FA, UP, FAD, ME,
PHE, SFA, ENG
Appraisal through                    2       PHE, SFA
Board
Supervision             Feb-85       5       ME, PHE, SFA, ENG,            I         F, M
Mission                                      ME
Aug-85       I        ME                           I         M
Apr-86       3       ENGs                          1         M
Sep-86       1       EC                            1         M
_____________ -Feb-87                3        ME, EC, ENG                  1          M, P
Jul-87      1       ME
Oct-87       2
Jul-88      3        ENG, SFA                     I         M, E
Dec-88       I       ENG                           2         M, E, P
._______________       Apr-89       2       ENV, SFA                      2         E, F
Sep-89       1       SFA, R                       2          M, P
Apr-90       2       UP, ENV                      2          P, E
Jul-90      3        ENGs                         3         P, M
Dec-90       I       EC                            2         P, M
Apr-91       2       EC, ME                       2          P, M
Oct-91       I       EC                           2          F, P
Aug-92       1        EC                           2         P
Dec-93       I       EC                            2         P
Sep-94       2       EC, UP                       2          P, E
Completion              Sep-94       2       EC, UP
Staff Skills:
ENG = Engineer                       ENV = Environmental Engineer  SFA  Senior Financial Analyst
FAD = Financial Adviser              EC = Economist               UP = Urban Planner
ME = Municipal Engineer              PHE = Public Health Engineer
Key:
I =Minor problems            F  Financial          E = Environmental
2 = Moderate problems        M = managerial         P = Procurement



- 32 -
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1544-IN)
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
(MISSION OF SEPTEMBER 1994)
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Mr. Evan Rotner and Ms. Kim Cuenco (SA21N) visited
Bombay from September 21-15, 1994 to discuss with the Government of Maharashtra (GOM)
the requirements for the completion of the Project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
and other issues identified during the current and previous missions. The mission wishes to
express its appreciation for the assistance and cooperation provided by the Government of
Maharashtra and the project management agencies.
2.    The mission's primary objective was to ensure that actions necessary to complete the ICR
by the required date are undertaken and to follow-up on the suggestions made by the 2-11
December, 1993 mission to BMRDA on the ICR preparation. The report should be completed
and distributed to the World Bank Board not later than six months after the closing date of
September 30, 1994.
3.    This aide-memoire summarizes the present status of ICR preparation and agreements on
actions that need to be undertaken to complete the ICR before March 1995.
Status of ICR Preparation
4.    BMRDA has prepared a detailed draft outline of the project ICR, taking into
consideration the suggestions made by the mission during its visit in December 1993. The
mission reviewed this outline with BMRDA and suggested for the following:
(a)   Project Description
*     Include information on extension dates
(b)   Project Coordination
*     explain how the project was designed and run as a program loan and the effective
technical role of BMRDA in managing the project as an appraisal intermediary;
*     note the limited effectiveness of the technical committee;
*     highlight the importance of successfully computerizing project management; and



- 33 -
*     note changes and improvements in procurement procedures and bid documents
during implementation and comment on impact - if any - on procurement
efficiency.
(c)   Related Project Issues
*     discuss the negative impact of competing non-BUDP programs and sources of
finds, particularly on the SUP component;
*     discuss reasons for the failure to implement urban renewal schemes in slum areas
as an alternate to in-situ upgrading; and
*     on TA, note that the organizational and financial management studies had a good
potential, which was a little utilized by the implementing agencies.
(d)   Replicability
*     note that sustainability and replicability of project results will require greater
participation by private financial interrnediaries; and
*    recast the BUP as an infrastructure financing project, possibly through an
evolution of the existing BMRDA urban infrastructure fund.
(e)   Indicators for Project Implementation
     consider using two tier indicators that allow more specifying in evaluating project
performance;
include both financial and qualitative indicators for all components and individual
agencies;
*     differentiate between the number of plots developed and households benefited
(larger because of substantial number of apartment plots in BUDP);
*     include performance indicators for assessing the LOGFAS component
performance;
*     include plot demand indicators (number of applications vis-a-vis quantity of sites
available) and tables of details by scheme, plot type to indicate marketability; and
*     for Annexure, include a detailed PERT chart for a typical scheme and - say - one
or two of the larger schemes like Charkop I and/or Koprekhairane, showing from
the feasibility study stage to occupation and settlement forecast and actual activity
times.



- 34 -
(f)    Other Suggestions
*     list technological initiatives introduced by the project, e.g. use of precast wall
plinths, cut doors, etc. Pre-cast drains at Koprekhairane and include under
performance indicators;
*     include section on performance of contractors;
*    highlight the main finding that the project was highly financially viable (appraised
funding vs actual funding/cost; recovery/profitability) with substantial social
benefits;
*     record and explain that the implementing agencies (MHADA and CIDCO) have
failed to pick up on the model, contrary to SAR expectations and forecasts;
*     include a section comparing the SAR forecast with actual project and other
supplier's (private and public) contribution to the affordable supply of serviced
plots/housing (the supply and demand balance was modeled in the SAR);
-    review and comment on maintenance of project assets by responsible agencies:
MHADA, CIDCO and BMC; and
comment on the relationship between SAR expectations compared to the
performance of exceptional site planning and engineering features (semi-private
open space for low income clusters of small plots, dispersion of low income
clusters among middle and higher income clusters; construction, marketing,
staffing and services provided (or not) in community facilities provided by the
project, performance-based roads, drains, water supply and sanitation engineering
standards etc.).
5.   It was agreed that BMRDA would submit a completed draft to the Bank by end-
December 1994. In the interim, it would forward to the Bank draft sections as they emerge.
Implementation Action Program (IAP)
6.    As part of the ICR, an IAP will be prepared by the Borrower describing the
implementation and financing of all remaining activities beyond the closing date of the Project in
accordance with the Project Agreement. It should contain appropriate technical, financial and
institutional arrangements to ensure effective project implementation and O&M including: (a) a
schedule of all actions required to complete the project beyond the Credit Closing Date, in the
sense that benefits/beneficiaries are in place; (b) a financing plan identifying the funding sources
for unfinished investments to be funded using non-Bank funds; (c) an implementation plan for
the operation and maintenance of completed investments; and (d) requirements for periodic
monitoring and reporting (to GOM and IDA) by all implementing agencies on O&M activities
and implementation of unfinished activities. In particular, remaining sites and services schemes
should be completed, allocated and occupied in accordance with the project agreement, with
home improvement loans extended to eligible beneficiaries.



-35 -
Use of Project-Generated Surplus Funds by CIDCO and MHADA
7.    MHADA and CIDCO have generated substantial surpluses from project implementation.
These funds should not flow into general agency revenues, but ploughed back into the project to
finance BUDP-type schemes within the credit period. The mission requests that
BMRDA/MHADA/CIDCO prepare and submit to IDA a plan for utilizing the surpluses for
BUDP-type schemes.
Other Issues
8.    Un-Occupied Apartments Plots - Charkop. The mission had noticed on an earlier site
visit that a number of apartment plots in Charkop have been vacant for several years. The
mission had said at that time that "these were allotted earlier with IDA's agreement on a one-
time basis outside the normal auction process to public sector agencies at average cost price.
One of the public sector agencies is Indian Air. The failure of Indian Air and other public
agencies, if any, to construct, abuses a special arrangement to the detriment of both the
development and environmental value of the area near the plots and project financial returns".
The mission was disappointed to find that its recommendation has been ignored and the
MHADA appears not to have informed Indian Air and other public agencies, if any, that if they
do not commence construction within 3 months their leases would be terminated in accordance
with provisions in the lease agreements and the plots would be auctioned to the public at large.
The mission requests and expects that BMRDA/MHADA submit to IDA within 2 weeks, copies
of lease termination notices for these and any such other plots in BUDP schemes - with lists of
the same.
9.    Maintenance-Sites and Services Schemes and Provision of Services. The mission
understands that Charkop sites and services scheme infrastructure assets have been turned over to
the BMC for maintenance and operations. We observed many instances in which the
infrastructure is not being maintained or services provided - damaged roads and drains,
uncollected garbage, etc. MHADA (and CIDCO) should survey all completed schemes,
inventory the maintenance and service requirements; and establish schedules and action program
for setting them right as part of the ICR/IAP. The mission requests that the survey and action
program be sent to IDA by November 1994.
10.   Community Development Services (CDS) Continuing Needfor. The mission visited
one Cooperative Society Cluster (Sunrise) in the Gorai scheme which it visited in December
1993. At that time the Society was just inaugurating obtaining its lease agreement and
occupation certificate. Since then, the Society has completed house construction up to about the
roof level. However, construction had obviously stopped for several months. Our inquiries
revealed that some of the society members may not have been able to come up with their share of
the house construction costs. This is not surprising. Since costs are now estimated at about Rs.
32,000/unit and the BUDP house construction loan is about Rs. 15,000, some households with
incomes of about Rs. 1,200-1,800/mo (for the A, B and C low income plots) must find it difficult
to raise the cash to cover construction costs.



- 36 -
11.   MHADA's community development wing should continue to be active on site to identify
ways and means for assisting Societies to resolve difficulties like the financial one above and
other ones connected with service and maintenance problems. Merely because MHADA (and/or
CIDCO) has completed construction and handed over plots and infrastructure to beneficiaries
does not mean that their responsibility for a site had ended. Achieving complete housing
construction and full occupation of sites remains as a responsibility. The mission requests that
IDA be informed by November 1994 what arrangements MHADA/CIDCO are making to
continue to provide CDS during the ongoing period of scheme house construction and
occupation and community service start up. Specific provisions for CDS should be included in
the ICR/IAP.
Use of Credit Balance Available in the Special Account
12.   During the mission BMRDA asked whether or not there was about SDR 2,340,069.30
remaining in the BUDP Special Account with DEA, which should be disbursed against
outstanding eligible BUDP claims. The mission has requested IDA to clarify the situation and
will inform BMRDA of the outcome as soon as information is available.



- 37 -
(             Mumbai MetropolitanI Region                                          AX B
Development  TXuthority                                  Bandra (E), Mumbai -400 051
E-MAIL: mmnrda@gias`bm01.vsnLfnet-in                                  Ted. No. 642 9751 (8 Lines)
E-MAlL:EmmrdaOgiasbm01.7BOMnetN   ::                                  FAX NO.: 91-022-640 03 06
TELEX: 0 11 -7 8069 BMDA, IIS
P/BUDP/ICR/ 3 ( 3                                                   May 23,1997
To,
Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer
Chief,
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department II,
South Asia Region, The World Bank,
1818 H Street N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Sub: BUDP - 1544 IN - Comments on ICR and Borrower's Contribution
Dear Mr. Bauer,
Thanks for your letter dated May 8, 1997 sending us a copy of the BUDP-ICR. As you are aware,
we had a significant contribution to the drafting of earlier version of ICR, which was sent to Mr.
Robert Panfil on March 9, 1995. Our formal 'Borrower's Contribution' to ICR was therefore rather
brief. Now that the ICR has undergone considerable change, we take this opportunity to present our
contribution highlighting the conclusions that significantly differ from those of the revised ICR now
sent.
The general performance of the project has been adjudged to be "marginally satisfactory". (This
category of assessment is not observed in the World Bank Operations Manual on Good Practices GP
13.55 of May 1994). Perhaps this conclusion has been arrived at by giving equal weightage to the
sectoral policy objectives and achievements within the project framework. Assigning such equal
weightage to both these aspects of the project is highly unrealistic as achievements of policy objectives
was obviously beyond the control of the project implementing agencies or the Bank Supervision staff.
Reforms in rent control legislations and urban land ceiling have not been achieved despite a number
of high level Government of India commissions and committees recognising the need for such
reforms. Thus the project needs to be assessed with reference to the physical and financial targets of
the project and the policy changes that could be brought about having a direct bearing on the project
achievements. With this perspective, we believe that the project could be rated as "satisfactory', and
some of the components like LISP and LOGFAS could even be considered as "highly satisfactory".
Some of the factual inaccuracies noticed from the revised ICR are also given as separate
annexure to this letter
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(V.K, Phatak)
Chief, Planning Division.



- 38 -
APPENDIX B-ANNEX I
BORROvVWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO TT-Ui
IMP ,LEMIENTATO*NT COMI'LETfiON REPQRT ON-
'C; 5 C .N!o . A15t'4' 4 I)
t
IN,DIA
lviumba'i Metroino1itan Region D)evelopment Authlority



- 39 -2
I NDIA
BOMIBAY URBAN DEVELiOPMENT PROJECT
(Creelit 1544-IN)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMILETION REP'OIT
1.0     ObJeclives
1.1.  The objectives of Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP) as stated in the
SAR were;
(i)  to make a large inicrease in the public supply of affordable land,
infrastructure and shelter particularly for lowv income families and
small business;
(ii)  to substarntially improve local government financial and administrative
capacity to deliver and maintain services, particularly tlle infrastructure
created under B3UDP 
(iii) to strengthen Goverinment's instituitional capacity to plan, coordinate,
iimplemenit, and ev aluate BUDI Projects, programs, and policies and
replicate thle achievement-;
(iv)  tlhrough mnore efficient and equitable land use planning and pricing
policies and mnore appropriate performance oriented design standards,
development conitrol and builclinig regulations to aim  at improved
public sector cost recovery and major reduction in the public and
private costs of slhelter investments; and
(v)  to direct a larger proportion of private investnment in land servicing and
slhelter construction in low cost units for low income famnilies.1
1.2.  Th-ese objectives wvere traiLslated into physical and investment targets to be
1 Staff Appraisal Report No. 4794 - IN, India, Bombay Urban Development Projcct Urban and Water
Supply Division, South Asia Projects Departmient, World Bank. Washington D.C., 1985 (para 2.08, pp 13).



-  40  -                                            3
supported by IDA Credit of SLDI 137.7 million as given in Table 1.
Table 1                                                          Rs. in Crores
COMPONENTS/AGENCIES                           SAR TARGETS
T } ysical Financial
1 Land Infrastructure Serviciig Program (LISI')
Provision of 85,000 serviced sites including cc)mtnunity     85,0()0   196.25
facilities, corc houses and house expanisioni loans:
MHADA            Greater Bombay:  Serviced Sites             40,000    81.22
Thane / Kalyan:   Serviced Sites            25,000    59.58
BMC              Greater Bombay: Offsite Infrastructure and
Community Facilities               21 .54
CIDCO            New Bombay:    Serviced Sites and       -   20,000    33.91
' nfr.astrUcture
2  Slum Upgrading Program (SUP)
Upgrading 100,000 slum households in Greater Bombay          100,000   53.37
including provision of tenure, improved infrastructure
services, home improvemnict loans, commnunity facilities
MIHADA:          Greater Bonmibav - Oni PIiublic Land        79,000    35.07
-On Private Land          10,000    5.01
BMC:                              - O  MCGU Land              20,000    13.29
3  Local Government Finance Administration and
Servtices (LOGFAS)                                                      30.78
Equipment and Civil Works for Inmproving the m aintenance of
roads, drains anid collection and disposal of rcfusc in
municipal corporations
BMC                                                                     17.70
TMC                                                                     6.25
KMC & CIDCO (NBMC)                                                      6.83
4  Teclhnical Assistance Training and Equipmenit (TATE)                    1 .93
For improving the capacity of the project implementing and
coordinating agencies
BUJDP TOTAL                                          282.33
1.3.   The  objectives  of the  project remained  valid  and  unchanged, during
implementation, except that the relative emphasis changed in favor of municipal
services and in-frastructure as showvn in Table 2 below;
Table 2                                                              Rs. in Crores
CONMPONENTS             SAR TARGETS                 IREVISED TARGETS
Physical Financia % of Tot. Physical Financial % of Tot.
1  LISP                    85,000    196.25   69.51%c  88,000    257.10    47.23%
1 a New InfrastructurT works                                     109.20    20.06%,
2  SUP                     100,000  53.37    18.90 %/c, 60,00(0   21.60    3.97%Z
3  LOGFAS                            30.78    10.90%hC           146.43    2 6.90/c
4  TATE                              1.93     0. 689             10.03     1.84%
BUDP TOTAL                        282.33   100.00%            344.36    100.00%
For details please refer Annexuire 1.
1.4.   The policy related project objectives had two cistinct aspects ; one related to



- 41 -                                     4
Sectoral Policies and the otlher related to 1Project implementation. The Sectoral
Policy objectives, using project as velhicle, attempted to bring about legislative
reforms particularly in Rent Control Act, Property Tax and Urban Land (Ceiling and
Regulation) Act. Some of these had national ramifications. The policy objectives
related to Project impleimieintationi had a more direct bearing on the project such as
reforms in the lDeveloppment Control and Building Regulations, Private Secor
P articipation in Land Development, Institutionial Reforms and Capacity Building
and Grant of Tenurial Rights to Slum  Households' cooperatives. The Planning
Commission Task Force (1983), National Commission on Urbanization (1988) and
National Housing Policies (1988 - 1992) have all recognized the importance of
legislative reforms in Rent Control and Urban Land Ceiling. However given the
political implicationis of suclh reforml- process, not milucli progress has been achieved
in this regard. Expectinig a single project to bring about significant legislative reforms
was tlherefore ratlher unrealistic. At tile timiie of IProject Appraisal and Negotiations,
concern for environmental impact i\as not very pronouncqd. The project therefore
did not have explicit objectives related to environmenit. However the project later
supported such objectives through technical assistance to the World lBank supported
Metropolitan Environment Improvement Plrogramme.
2.    Programme Approaclh Of The Project:
2.1   The project was conceived more as a programi based on prototype projects and
not as a conventional fully designed project. Certain deviations in the costs were
tlherefore inevitable. Estimation of plhysical quantities, base unit cosLs and price
contin-encies were largely adequate. in fact, initially thlere were cost underrunis
particularly in land reclamation. However, credit allocation was based on constant
exchange rate. Significant rupee depreciation therefore mean-t constant increase in
investm1lent in rupee termas that could be supported by availabld credit. The project
closed with a rupee expenditure of Rs. 435.81 crores (US $ million 214.33)as against
Rs. 282.33 crores (US S 256.70 millioni) estinmated in SAR, but with corresponding
credit utilization of SDR 93 million (US $ 124.889 million) instead of SDR 137.7
million (US $ 138 million) estimated in SAR. The scope of L]SI linked off site
infrastructure and LOGFAS wvas considerably increased particularly by restructuring
the project in 1991 (Annexure 1). The project was implemented tllrouglh 1327
contracts out of wvhich 1248 smaller contracts awarded through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedure. Performance of contractors wvas generally satisfactory
though in most cases there was some time overrun.



- 4 2 -                                         5
POSSIB3LE INVESTMENT UNDER CREDIT
6(X
6(N)~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ----  Expcniditurc
5(X)
400
Lh
200
(              ---I           I                            9
0   - 
8 ~~~~~3  3N    ON\  EN  3N    O
Date
Note:  Investment 1 indicates tlie expendituirc that cotild be supported by the residual credit.
Expenditure indicates the actual cumulative expenditurc.  &
Investment 2 indicates total expcniditiire that could have been supported b)' the total credit.
2.2   SAR estimated a six and half year completion period commencing from  the
reLroactively financed vworlks starting in January 1 981 to Septemlber 199(9. 1 loweveu
substantial progress in LISP w,as aclhieved only by extended credit closing date Or
September, 1994 thouglh some works  vcre completed by May, 1995. Thc SAg
disbursement profile cxpected full utilization of SDR 137.7 million by September
1990. However, actual disbursement by that time was only SDR 40.00 million. After
restructuring and enhanced disbursement rates, credit disbursements improved
and by June 1994 entire credit of SDR 93 million (after two successive credit
cancellation of SDR 37.00 million in December 1993 and SDR 7.20 million in June
1993) was fully disbursed before the extenided closing date of September, 1994.
3.   -  Achievements of Objectives
3.1.   Ob1jcctivc  (i) was translated  into  twvo componienits viz. LISP  - Land
Infrastructure Servicing Program and SUP - Slum Upgradinig Program. The plhysical
and financial progress of these components is given in Table 3. LISP target has been
'substantially' achieved in 9 years instead of 5 as expected in SAR. SUP target
lhowever has been aclhieved only to the extent of 22%/., of SAR target despite four year
extension of project period.



- 43 -                                    ()
Table 3                                                             Rs. in crores
COM']ONEN'I'S  SAR TARGETS          REV!SED         ACI'UAL      ACTUAL AS % OF
TARCETS                      REV.TARGETS
1 'hy. ) -     I-in,.  I' y.  I:in.)   I 'h y .  ':in l   I'h y.  Finl.
|1+F1a US!'  SE;85,()((  I96.25  88,00()  36 6.3()  87,743   297.72   99.71%7.  81.28%7,.
2    S U i'    I )U( 10(,00(  53.3:7    60,00(0   21.6(0   22,20(4   7.46    37.01%   34.54%
BUDP TOTAL             249.62  -       387.90 ;         305.18           78.67h o
3.2.   Olbjcctive (ii) was partly translated into LOGFAS - Local Government Finance
and Administrative Systelmis and partly supported by TATE - Tecl3nical Assistance,
Training and Equipment. Table 4 provides financial progress of LOGFAS and TATE
as comnpared to SAR  targets. As seen from  tlis table the objective has been
substantially achieved by supporting the investment necessary ifor efficient delivery
of municipal services.
Table 4                                                     Rs. inl Crores
COMPONENTS                       FINANCIAL TARGETS       ACTUAL S % OF
SAP.       REVISED       AC:4UAL       REV.TARGETIS
3   LOGFAS         30.78        146.43        118.14         80.68%
4   TATE           1.93          10.03         12.49         124.53%c
BUDP TOTAL         32.71        156.46        130.63         83.49%
3.3.   017jcctivzc (ivz) beincl directly related to LISP was first achieved by obtaining
GOM  sanction  for modified landuse and design standards for LISP. Similar
standards were later incorporated in the Development Control Regulations2 (1991)
of the revised Development Plan of Bombia}ay, thus 'substantially' achieving the
objective.
3.4.   Objective (ii) an1d (iiil Nere supported by a large number of studies and
consultant services. Througlh this technical assistance and direct involvement in the
project, institutional reforms and  capacity building  hlas been  'substantially'
developed, notably in the folloNwing:
(a)   Formulating and evaluating land development projects mainly for low
income beneficiaries with affordability and cost recovery considerations
by using computer based models in MMRDA, NMHADA and CIDCO.
(b)   Using compulerized lottery for drawing lots for beneficiary selection,
commercial accounting for monitoring collection of receivable etc. in
MHADA.
(c)    Using network based comnputerized Project Managemncrt SystCemIs and
coml-Lputerized  tracking  of procuremient, expenditure  and  credit
utilization in MAMRDA.
2Development Control Regulations for Grealcr Bombay 1991, Urban Developillont Department, Govcrn)m
Maharashtra.



- 44 -                                    7
(d)   DeveloPing Geographic informlation1 SYSLem1 (GIS) for use in regional
land use planning, transportation, other infrastructure plannin-g and
environmlrental nmanagenncnt in MMIRDA,
(e)   Using computer basedi layout design preparation in MHADA and
CIDCO, and
(f)   MMRDA thrcugh its BUDP-Revolving Fund acting as a municipal
finance agency and making effective use of computerized Finance and
Operating Plan (FOP) mo,dels for loan appraisals. BMRDA thus
acquired a potential to become financial intermediary to finance
municipal infrastructure.
On the other hand,
(g)   Organization and Management Studies carried out under TATE
component for M1IADA, TMC, KMC and NMMC have had very liltle
impact.                                       f
3.5.  Nine training programs including participation in international seminars
and stud), tours were supported covering areas of Metropolitan Planning and
Administration, Solid Waste Management, Community Development, Urban
Management, Municipal Finance Managem-ient and Land Policy. This helped
improve capacity for metropolitan planning and management.
3.6.  Objective (v) was basically linked to legal and sectoral reforms at National
and State level. Refornms in urban land ceiling, rent coiltrol and property tax
therefore could not be substantially achieved. Howvever, some reforms were carried
out in Rent Control Act and Urban Land Ceiling Act as given in Annexure II.
MMRDA attempted to implement a pilot scheme of "Guided Land Development"
to achieve objective related to promoting private participation in land development
on LISP pattern, within the existing legal framework and with financial support
from  the project. This sclheme relied upon the exemption from  compulsory
acquisition as the incentive. However as tlhe compulsory acquisition itself could not
be pursued , the scheme of promotinig private land development could not also
succeed. Changes in land use planning, building codes etc. to reduce tLhe costs of
shelter investment and help cost recovery have been 'substantially' achieved.
Financial objectives referred to affordable pricing for low income beneficiaries, full
cost recovery , interest rates to be charged and internial cash generation for project
funding. These have been 'substantiallv' achieved. Substantial technical capacity has
been developed in BMRDA, MHADA  and CIDCO  to formulate, plan and
implement projects.  Similar capacities could not be developed among otlher
implementing agencies.  However capacity to coordinate large multi-agency
program is still weak in BMRDA and GOM. The aclhievement could be treated as
'partial'. Physical objectives relate to LISP, SUP and LOGFAS compolnelnts. The
achievement in eaclh of these can be rated as substantial, partial andc substantial
respectively witlh overall rating being 'substantial' thiough delayed.
3.7.  Lack of access to serviced land and municipal services causes deprivation of
urban poor. The project objective wvas tlherefore to n-ainly reaclh the poor througlh ils



- 45 -                                           8
LISP component. The SAR had a site planning objective of ensuring 45 to 55% of
plots for lowr incom1le families belowv the poverty line and 10 to 20% plots for incoimie
groups immediately above the poverty line. A comparative profile of LISP
beneficiary and income distribution based on a 'Househlold Survey carried out for
BMR'3 in 1989 shows that this objective has been largely achieved both in terms of
number of sites developed and the beneficiary proportion (See graph below). In case
of SUP too, the large proportion of beneficiaries were below the poverty line as
confirmed in tlhe base line surveys carried out by BMRDA. However in this case the
total scale of project implemenitation was only 25% of the SAR estimates.
BMIR and LISP Income Profiles - 1981
100
80---vrt .                                                      -- 
C 7        Pov( --rt) Iine ,- <
60
! - 450              /     /                B I ncormc Profile
jc    30)         7                                     
40
10
0     500    1000 15()   9)20(X)  2500   3000   3500   4000   45(X)
|Monthly Household Income (Rs.)
3.8.  The reasons for delays are analyzed as followTs:
a)    Though the implementation sclhedule was right' in terms of desired
sectoral impacts witlh the delays that have occurred it appears to be
uiunrealistic.
b)    Many delays are mainly on account of weak and uncommitted cc-
ordination at governmental level wvhich failed to resolve issues in a
timely manner. Substantial land was allotted to MHADA  only on
account of conditions of extension. Coordination mechanism  got
energized  only  during  the IDA  supervision   missions and  for
responding- to the conditions of extension.
3 Multipurpose Household Survey of BMR, BMARDA and ORG, 1990.



- 46 -                                      9
c)    Ban on quarrying and restrictionis on reclaiming coastal wetland were
the oinly technical problems faced by tlhe project.
d)   Inordinate delay in deciding the policy of granting tenure to slums
located on land reserved for public purposes in the 'Developcnielit
Plan' .
e)    Enlarging the scope of project included twTo aerated lagoons at Versova
and Malad which wvere unfinislhed wvorks of an earlier Bank assisted
Bombay II Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit No. 842 IN). No
significant progress could be achieved on these projects in BUDP. These
wTorks wvere under consideration for inclusion in the Bank financed
proposed 'Bombay Sewerage Disposal Project'.
f)    Amongst the implementing agencies, BMC had major problems  of
selection of contractors and generally inefficient procurement practices.
g)    Even where civil works on LISP sites were complete, delays were
caused in estate management stages of advertisement, scrutinv,
selection and final allotment to the beneficiaries.
4.      Project Sustainability:
4.1.  The project is likely to be sustainable, only if Governrment develops andc
sustains comnmitment to project objectives and approaches. Furtlhermore the project
wvould not be sustainable if it has to rely onl government land. For that purpose land
policy innovations promoting land assembly through private sector and servicing
wzill be of crucial importance. Providing basic trunk infrastructure like water,
sanitation, roads and power should receive higher priority. The follow-up project if
any, has to support infrastructure and land policy initiatives. However, as of nowv
there appears to be no inclination on the part of the Banik to support such project.
How^ever, MMRDA initiated Bombay Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP). Tlhe Bank
in response to the BUIP has indicated its to support to a financial intermediary.
4.2.  To help project sustainiability, the BUDP had conceived of a BUDP Revolving
Fund to be constituted in MMRDA. This Funid has been constituted as agreed and is
in operation- since 1989. Till Marclh 1997, tlhe Fund has approved loan of Rs. 32.41
crores and disbursed Rs. 25.87 crores for improvemrient of municipal infrastructure
in BMR. This should help project sustainability by way of financial support.
5.    Bank Performance                                                             t
5.1.  The project wvas identified during informl-al discussions between GOM and tlle
Bank missions in 1979 - 1980. Bank carried out the Bombay City Study (1980) and
Bombay Shelter Stud)y - Urban HIousing and Land (1980) througlh highly acclaimed
academicianis, Prof. Harry W. Richardsoni and Prof. William  C. Wheaton
respectively. These sludies lhelped identify the priorities and policy issues in urban
land and shelter sector. The studies generated considerable initerest and debate
amongst the Borrowver agencies and lhelpedL develop consensus on approach lo
project preparation.



- 47 - 7C)
5.2.  The Project Preparation took place in Junie - July 1982. The project preparation
vas helped by competent mission comlnprising expert consultants in related fields.
(ArchilecLure-Physical Planning, Environmental Planning, Municipal Engineering,
Solid Waste Management, Financial Analvsis and Urban Economics). The missions
wvorked with the local team to evolve the project design and did not engage any
consultant for formial preparation. This helped in increased involvement and
commitment to project particularly in BMNIRDA which was the co-ordinating agency.
5.3.  The project preparation paid actequate attention to technical, financial,
economic and institutional aspects. However it could nowv be said with hiindsiglht
that it did not provide adequate attention to environmental considerations. Its
emphasis on improved services to slums, solid waste nianagement and other
m-unicipal services is however indicative of its commitment to 'brown agenda'.
I
5.4.  Tlhe Appraisal took place in Junie - July 1983 and was preccded by Pre -
appraisal in March 1983. The appraisal riglhLly brought out the major issues vh1ich
may affect tlhe achievement of project objectives. These wvere;
a)    Sectoral policy issues like rent control and property tax reforms,'urban
land ceiling act,
b)    Policies related to development of slums on private land,
b)    Adequacy of lanid available wvith implem-ienting agencies,
c)    Strengthening of BIMRDA as the coordinating agency,
d)   Strengthening muniicipal government in Thane, Kalyan- and Navi
Mumbai,
e)    Professional community development staff in 'BMC and MIlIADA to
ensure community participation in SUP,
f)    Restricting MHADA's noin-DUDP annual program to less Rs. 10 crores
to ensure priorit) and comml?1itmlenit to I3UDP, and
g)    Specifying cost recovery objectives in terms of interesl rate to be
charged and recovery performance for collecting monthly dues.
5.5.  Consensus could be cleveloped amongst the implemiienlting agencies and thie
Bank on all the issues except (a) and (b) above. Bank attempted to use project as a
vehicle to bring about legislative charges wvhereas the administrators expressed their
inability to give any assurances on legislative matters. This delayed the negotiations
by nearly two years. Though GOI gave some indication of action on these issues,
nothing substantial happened on that front. Attempting to use project for bringing
out policy changes was perhaps naive.
5.6.  Bank performance from Identification througlh Appraisal and Negotiations
,was generally higlhly satisfactory mainly for continuity of Task Manager and the mix
of competent consul[ants, and thleir rapport with local team wh1ich1 helped project
evolution as a joint Leamn effort.
5.7.  The Project was declared effective in March 1985, thouglh the RZetroactively
works commenced in January 1984. The Credit became effective in August 22, 1985.
Bank performance in supervision of project implemenitation wvas also higlhly
satisfactory mainly because of continuation of the same Task Manager wlho was on



- 48 -                                I 1
nilny occasions lone m1elember of the such missions. Nineteen supervision missions
tlhrouglh their extensive fieldi visits, discussions with operational staff of
implementing agencies and project beneficiaries, discussions with heads of
implementing agencies and secretaries of government departments, energized the
coordination meclhanismii. Out of these thirteen were prior to September 1990 tlle
original credit closing date and only six tlhereafter till September 1994. Penetrating
analysis of status of project reflected in the Aide Memoir strengtlhenced thle
coordination agency to follow-up on some tricky issues. Follow-up on advice was
*also persistent. In particular, the supervision mission ensured;
a)   adequate enforcement of project covenants,
b)   judicious review of feasibility studies of LISP projects covering layout,
engineering , beneficiary income profile, affordable pricing and cost
recovery aspects,
c)   coordinated construction of LISP projects bv improved contract
packaging, (Tlhe initial practice was to award separate contracts for
works like water supply, sewerage, roads, etc. The missions advised
packaging of these contracts into a single contract for a particular area.
This improved coordination of construction activities at site.); and
improved bid documents that included 'price variation clause' and
gradual conformity to the 'sample bidding document' recommended by
the Bank,
d)   dynamic development of TATE  component by  incorporating
additional consulting assistance as the need arose particularly in
environment related activities such as planniing of coastal wetlands,
quarrying operations, Metropolitan Environment Improvement
Program (MEIP) - studies related to Environmehtal Management
Strategy, Solid Waste Management in Bombay, Environmental
Management of industrially sensitive areas, engineering master plan
and feasibility studies of storm water drainage -, water supply to New
B3ombay and Vasai-Virar, water disLribution systemii in Kalyan and
computerization and developm-nent of GIS capabilities in BMRDA,
e)   flexibility in modifying project contenits keeping in view the project
objectives, which led lo inclusion of major off-site works not envisaged
in SAR, expansion of LOGFAS component to cover schemes like
electric crematoria;
f)   expedient use of conditions of extension of credit closing date to keep
borrower's interest alive and stimulate early decisions on difficult
issues like allotment of additional land to MHADA, allocation of
Patalganga water to Navi Mumbai and establishing Navi Munmbai
Municipal Corporation which also helped physical and financial   -
progress in a large way. From Annexure III, tlhree distinct plhases of
land availability can be observed from  the clhronology chart of the
availability of land and submissioni of feasibility studies to IDA. The
correlation between the Missions and procurement of land for the
project can be clearly seen from the chart.
5.8.  Despite suclh persistent (sometimes naggino) efforts, tlie Supervision
Mlissions maintained cordial relations with borrowing agencies and staff and
worked together to achieve project objectives in best possible manner. The project



- 49 -                                     1 2
implementation did not involve any significant deviation from  the Bank policies
and procedures.
6.    Borrower Performance
6.1.  Tlhe technical input of MMRDTA's plarnning uniit in identifying, preparing and
appraising the projects were 'hiiglhly satisfactory'. Government too by app(oinltingT
interdepartmental coordination committee demonstrated its will to pursue project
objectives.  IBMRDA and otlher implementing agencics worked witlh Bank missions
without any) exterial conlsultallt assistance on proj(cct preparation. Affordable Low
Income Slhelter Prog,ram (ALlS)P adequtalely coveeld secLoral, economic, technical,
financial issued. Explicit consideration of environmental factors wvas, however, not
a part of the state of art theni.
6.2.  UInlike during preparation, borrower performance during  implementation
can be rated only as 'satisfactory'. BMRDA as a coordination agency was stronig in
identifying problems based on its MIS but wvas weak in ensuring tlhcir solutions.
I3MNRDA issued a 'Reporting Procedure Mlanual in 1985, covering information
required on sectoral dimension-s, agencies performance outside BUIRP, procurement,
marketing and allotment of plots, financial covenants etc. How'ever it could not
enforce this manual except for getting project specific expenditure data necessary for
disbursement applications, and recovery of moi thly dues. BMRDA maintained
higlhly satisfactory record of procuremilenit which formed basis for review of physical
and financial progress bv Bank supervision mnissions. BMrDA in consultation with
implementing agencies prepared yearly work program  and translated it into
m-nonthly expenditure targets. Its monthly progress reports compared the progress
ws\ith these targets an-id broughlt out important issues to the attention of heads of
implementing agencies and government. But it dlid not have powers to enforce any
decisions. Like the Task NManager of Banik-, Chief, Planning Division of BM\IRDA
wiho wvas the maini coordinating officer continued from iLdentificationi to compnletion
of the project. However frequent changes of Metropolitan Commission, BMRDA
and otlher heads of implementing agencies adversely affected the progress of thie
project and commitment to objectives.  BMRDiA also made concerted cfforts to
develop 'Guided  Land Development' as an alteLrnativ'e to com pulso)ry land
acquisition. MHADA's performalnce on LISP was 'highly satisfactory' but on SUP
only moderately 'satisfactory'. CIDCO's performance in LISP varied from satisfactory
to deficient particularly cn marketing of plots. BMC's performance on SUP was
deficient, it virtually stopped implementation in 1991 after the announcement of 2.5
FSI scheme of slum redevelopment. Its performance on procurement was though
procedurally satisfactory involved considerable delays in pre-awvard and post award
slages. DIMC used 120 to 150 days as the bid validity period instead of normal 90 days.
TMC and KMC's performance in inplementing LOGFAS was generally satisfactory.
6.3.  Tlhe project did not have any specific maacro economiiic policies, bus in terms of
sectoral policies it intencded to bring about reform-is in rent control, property tax,
urban land ceiling, development control and building regulations and noni-BUDP
programs of M1-IADA and CIDCO. Except for .1evelopment control and building
4 Thc State Go\ernimiet constitiuted a Wiorkinig Group ini 1981, to follov up the discussions with the ldentific.
Mission, wlhich prepared the report on Affordabl1 Lown Income Sheltcr Programme.



- 50 -                                    1 3
control regulations no significant impact was achieved in other areas. In fact, in case
of SUI' programlls LuLite Contrary to 13UDI' prinlciples and approaches became mole
popular. Regarding financial objectives internal cash generation, pricing at
affordable levels for low income beneficiaries, full cost recovery, interest rate to be
charged and recovery of nmonthly dues were highly satisfactorily achieved.
Achievement of institutionzal development objectives remained  deficient.
Recommendations of Organization and Management studies carried out for
MHADA, TMC, KMC and NBMC remained largely unimplemented. BMRDA's
role and function still continues to be a matter of debate. Physical objectives were
substantially achieved in LISP and LOGFAS but not in SUP. Social objectives
particularly  benefiting the poor wvere also substantially achieved. Overall
implementation in physical and financial terms though delayed wvas highly
satisfactory, but in respect of policy and institutional developmi-ent deficient.
6.4.  There were fourteen important covenants in the P,roject Agreement. Out of
which seven have been fully complied, three have been partially complied, one
covenan-t has been complied with delay. Tlhrce covenants related to implementation
of slum upgradation on private lands and limiting MHADA's ne,w investment on
non BUDP schemes have not been comiplied with. Therefore the compliance witlh
covenants was highly satisfactory ws'itlh respect to procurement, progress reports,
accounts and audits and pricing and cost recovery. It was 'satisfactory' in respect of
use of technical assistance and 'deficient' in case of sector policies and institutional
development. Overall, it could be rated as 'satisfactorv'.
7.   Assessmenit of Outcomne
7.1   The overall outcomiie of the BUDP is satisfactory, in the context of priority
being given to the physical objective of improving supply of public land to low
income beneficiaries which has been substantially achieved. The Economic Rate of
Return has surpassed SAR estimates and FRR shows achievement of financial
objectives. Altlhough1- sustainability is likely onl) if major reforms in lanid policies
and provision of adequate muniicipal infrastructure in periplheral areas is achieved.
It is indicative of changed priority over the years and not irrelevance of project
objectives. Summary of assessments in giveni in Annexure IV.
8.   Future Operations
8.1.  The project wvas being implemented through 1327 contracts (including
training), out of these 1007 contracts have been completed. MHADA and CIDCO
have generated cash surpluses of Rs. 93.79 crorcs and Rs. 28.33 crores respectively.
This will be adequate to complete their onl going works. in addition substantial
revenue is expected by sale of balance plots. For BMC the expenditure involved is
rather small as comipared to its annual budget. TMC has completed all its works.
KMC has already applied for finanicial assistance from B3UDI': Revolving Fund
established in BM\RDA. Given the fund available, it wvould be possible to finance
completion of the project. Assets created in [lie project are in the nature of
municipal infrasLrucLure. Adequate instilulionial provjisiois have beeni ensured for
their use and maintenance. No major problem is envisaged in this regard.
8.2.  The programmatic objectives of the project are linked witlh overall sector



- 51 -                                   1 4
performance. If slhelter supply remains inadequate even for middle income group, it
is quite likely that plots m-eanit for lowv income beneficiaries in the project will get
transferred to higher income groups. The evaluation in future w ill lhave to be of thle
sector as a whole and not of project alone. 13MIRDA is attempting to develop a
regional information system to provide basis for suclh periodic evaluation. The
emphasis in follow  up action by the Bank will have to be on supporting
infrastructure investment, land policy instrument that ensure access to serviced
land for the poor and institutional developm-ieint to finance, plan and co-ordiniate
development. BMRDA could be considered as an intermediary in this regard.
9.    Ker Lessons Learnt
9.1.  A project based investment program cannot be used as an effective vellicle lo
bring about legal and institutional reforms, lhowever important tlley may be for the
desirable sectoral impacts. Once tlhe loan becomes effective, tine borrower's attention
(and to some extent of the l3anlk) gets confilled to using thle available fuInds and not
on the secLtral rfcormn s.
9.2.  In case of urban sector, to implement programs of improvement in quality of
life tlhrough multi-sectoral projects involving mrltiple agencies,, an integrated
urban development approach is necessary. However, for suclh programs to be
implemented efficiently, planning and coordination is of crucial significance. In this
regard an external coordinating agency, vhich is not directly implementing the
project, is importalnt for impartial monitorin-g  and  evaluation. But most
implementing agencies are au toniomiious and have their own procedure to make
decisions. If an external agency does not have an effective say. in evaluating tlle
decisions of the implementing agenlcies, coordinationi may turn out to be ineffective.
Certain 'empowering' of coordinatinig agency is, tlherefore, essential.
9.3.  Frequent clhang-es of personalities in key positions, particularly belonging to
the Indian Administrative Service, is of conmmon problem  in implemiienting long
term programs. This is also true of key engineering positions in BMC and MHADA.
Certainl amount of continluity of key personnel is, therefore, important in
deVelopinIg Comm1111itmcent to projcct objectives anid approaches.
9.4.  The work culture prevailing in most public sector institutions is alien to
modern methods of project management. Efforts are necessary to change this work
culture. Imposing project management consultants could only be a short term
expedient solutions.
9.5.  In the Metropolitan Slhelter Sector, increasing the supply of service land
through provision of trunk infrastructure and supporting land policy instruments
wlhiclh promote private land developmncit for all income groups is of fundamcntal
importance. Direct investment by public agencies in land development could only
be a part of the overall strategy lhaving demonstration impacts.
9.6.  Most of these lessons are relevant for urban and infrastructure projects in
India.



\ rw,
-  5 2 -                   Anncxure I
Rs. in Crores
COMPONENTS/AGENCIES                                  SAR TARGETS REV. TARGETS   ACT./Scp.94
Phy).   Filn   J'hy.   Fin.    Phy.    Fin.
| Land Infrastructure Scrvicing Program (LISr)
Provision of 85,000 scrviced sites including cominuniity   S5,0O() 196.25 88,000  366.30  87,743  297.72
facilitics, core houses and house expansion loans:
MHADA Greatcr Bombay:  Scrviced Sites                 40,00(   8122  55,200  136.82  55,297  114.86
Thane / Kalyan:  Serviced Sites              25,000  59.58  3,800    9.78   4,709    9.57
BMC      Greatcr Bombay: Offsitc Infrastructure and
Communiity Facilities          21. 54          28.9()           2565
Rehabilitation of WVater Mains                                     29.2(0          11.03
Priority Storm Water Drainage lWorks                              20.00            17.59
* Waste Watcr TreaLmi)nt (Aerated Lagoons)                          2(0.(             8.60
* Water Sup)ply tc) EasLern SuXburbs                                 20.00             6.92
CIDCO   New Bombay:    Serviced Sites and             20,000  33.91 2 ,000   81.60  27,737   79.31
I nfrastructu re
* Master Balancing Rcscrvoir at Shil and                             12.00            12.49
Trasmission M1ains 
* Drawl of 30 mid water from Patalganga                               8.00            11.64
2 Slum Upgrading Program (SUP)
Upgrading 100,000 slum households in Creater Bomba) 100,000  53.37 35,000   21.60  22,204    7.46
including provision of tenure, improved infrastructure
services, home improvement loans, communitv facilities
MHADA Greatcr Bombay - On Public Land                 70,000  35.07 27,500   19.82  21,604    6.13
- On Private Land       10,((0   5.01      0    0.00        0    0.00
BMC:                          - On MCGB Land          20,000  13.29  7,500    1.78      600    1.33
3 Local Government Finance Administration and
Services (LOGFAS)                                             30.78          146.43           118.14
Equipmcnt and Civil Works for Improving the
maintenence of roads, drains and collection and disposal
of refuse in municipal corporations
BMC                                                            17.70          34.48            25.07
TMC                                                             6.25          13.79            21.68
KMC & ClDCO (NBMC)                                              6.83          13.16            18.88
KMC               ++ Augmentation of Water Supply                             35.00            33.05
CIDCO-(NBMC) ++ Equipments                                                    20.00            1 5.36
Municipal Councils in BMR
Improving and Dcvelopiig Municipal                               30.00             4.10
Services
4 Technical Assistance Training and Equipment (TATE)              1.93           2(13             9.39
For improving the capacity of the project implenicnting
and coordinating agencies
+++ MctTopolitan Envirolnmcnt Improvement                            80()             3.1(
Programme|
BUDP TOTALI            282.33          544.36          435.81
Note:  * Items included in December 1988.
I* Items included after thc Restructuring bccame effective from January 1991.
++ As part of originial p roject.
+++  Included as part of TATE.



I {s
- 53 -
Annexure 11
After the Negotiations of the Project some acnendments and reforms have been
introduced in the Urban Land Ceiling Act and the Rent Control Act and are given below;
1.    Pyovisionis of Section 20 & 21 of Urban (Land Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976:
Section 21 of the Act entitles land hlolders to prepare schemes and develop their
surplus land for weaker section housing and thereby obtain exemption from  the
provisions of tlhe Act. Such exemption can nQt be refused on the ground that the land is
required for public purpose since such exemption is also in the public interest. The
pattern of development prescribed under Section 21 allowved development of residential
tenementcis wZith a plintlh arca upto 40 sqr.m and upto 80 sq.m to'be constructed in equal
numbers. I-Towever such development could not reach the most disadvantaged and
hence the State Governnmient prescribed guidelines for devqlopment of weaker section
housing under Section 20 of the ULC Act.
A scheme was prepared under Sectioni 20 in 1983, which envisaged construction of
tenements of 25, 40 and 80 sq.m. plinth area on the surplus land and required
landholders to surrender proportion of tenements (and aiso land for bigger lands) based
on size of land holding. This wvas struck down by tlie High Court which did not view it
to be in the public interest since;
1.   nmore than 50% land was released for the land holders; and
2.   there wTere no price restrictions on sale of tenements.
In 1986, the State Government formiiulated revised guideAnes for weaker section
housing wlhichA wvere subsequently amended in 19808. These are as followvs:
1.    For Surplus Land below 4,000 sq.m.
The land holder slhould build tenements of upto 40 sq.m. area on the entire net
buildable land and sell 30% of suclh tenemenits to the State Government or Government
nominees at predetermined rates. 70% of the tenements can be sold by the land
holder/developer in the open market at a predtcermined rate and according lo tlle
allotmenAt procedures to be laid down by, the State Government (tlhese will be similar to
MHADA's policy of allotmaent). In both the cases the predetermined rates would be
roughly equal to five times the land cost (as per the ULC Act rates) plus actual cost of
construction and 15% profit on total expenditure.
2.    For Surplus Land above 4,000 sq.m.:
The surplus area excluding Developmenti Plan reservations slhall be divided into
two equal cormpone-'r as given below;



- 54 -
The other alternative offered to the land lholders is to surrender 65% of the land at
ULC prices to MHADA  and using thle remaining 35%  land for construction of
apartments having an area of 40 to 80 sq.m.,
2.    Rent Conltrol Reforml-s:
In 1986, The Governm-nent of Maharashtra in-troduced some reforms in the Rent
Act but they mainly deal wvitlh the new properties. These changes allow for a five-year
moratorium on rent restriction and thereafter limit the rents to net return of 15% per
annum on cost of land and buildinig at the time,of first letting. The system of short term
Table-
Schieme for Surplus land above 4000 Sq.rT. under ULC
Component A: All plots admeasuring 25 Sq.M. eachl
Type of Plot      % Tenements       Approximate Cost
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    (R s.)
Sites & Services   5 (minimum)      6000-8000
plots+Core        10 (Minimum)    12000-14000
House
I Room           85 (Maximum)    Below 25000
Tenements
Govt. shall have the pre-emption in case of all plots in this
component
Component B: The land owner shall construct the
tenements asper the following guidelines
Tenemnenit Size    % of Teniemiients  Right of pre-emption
Upto 25 Sq.M.            30         60% at cost price
25-50 SqL.M.             20         10%' at prcscribed
50-80 Sq.M.              30         rate by Govt.
The total area of pre-empted plots shall not exceed 12.5% of
the FSI
on this
component
leasing was also revived, wvhich Nas banned in 1973.
Ownership Transfers of Rtent Controlled Buildings



- 55 
Willt a view to expand the scope of tili renex-val programme of thle Rlenl Control
Act affected buildings w-vithl active participation of tenants the Government of
Mallarashtra amended the Act to cnable the tenants co-operativcs to purchase the
buildinigs by paying 100 timiies thle imoth])' rent as compensation to thle ownicrs. Tllis
provision is inadequate as far as return to original owners is concernied; but some of the
tenanLts cannot afford to pay even this meager compensation to the owvners. This schcme
has remained locked up in prolonged litigation till 1992 when High Court finally uplheld
the amendments to MHADA Act but the matter is now in the Supreme Court.
National Housing Policy
The National Housing Policy formulated in 1988 also proposed to amend the
provisions of ULC and Renit Control Act. Besides these changes, the Policy's, major
objective was to motivate and help all people - particularly houseless and inadequately
housed, to secure for themselves affordable shelter througb access to land, materials,
teclnology and finance by creating an enabling environment. The thrust of the Final
Policy adopted by the Government in 1992 recommended the 'facilitator' role of public
agencies.
The Model Rent Act
An amendlment to the Dellhi Rent ConLrol Act was prepared for the Unioll
Territory of Delhi witlh the objectives of introducing reasonable flexibility in rent
structures and enicouraging house construction activity. Based on this Act, the
Government of India prepared 'The Model Rent Control Bill' which aims at reducing
controls on the rental housing market and promoting investments in new house
construction for rental lhousing. Following the Model Act, the Government of
Maharashtra has prepared a bill which also aims at unifying, consolidating and
amending laws prevailing in different parts of the State of Maharashtra. The salient
features of the bill are as followXzs:
1.   40 years exemption from provisions relating to standard rent and permitted
increases provided for buildings newly constructed or reconstructed on or after 1st
OcLober 1987 and for premises not let or given on license for a continuous period
of one year.
2.    After the expiry of 40 years, the standard rent to be fixed for premises first let after
1st October, 1987 on the basis of 15% net return to the landlord on his investment
in land and building plus all the out going in respect of the premises. Provisions
for fixation of standard rent for otlLer premises remain unchanged. HIowever
applicationi for fixation of standard renlt has to be made withlini a period of one year
from the date of demand of excessive rent or permitted increases by the landlord
or within a period of one year from commencement of this Act.
3.    Exemptionis provided for premises let to foreign missions, internationial agencies,
multinational companies and public limited companies having a paid up share
capital of more tlhan Rs. I crore.
4.    Existing protection afforded to tenants to continue.



-56-
5.   Rent increase by the landlord allowyed at a flat rate of 5% per annum for various
uses after commi-ecem-ent of this Act.
The bill was proposed to be converted into an enforceable Act after it is
passed by the State Legislature and approved by the Governor. However, due to change
in the Government, the bill wa.s not processed.



- 57 -
Annexure [
Phases of Land Availability and Chronology
of Submission of Feasibility Studies
690-00                                             ~Charkop IV                                                   /Malani
59))()()                                                                                    K-OanblNlXI       * K\hDrghlar
di t11'(l [I:j    vd (WV)
4949((X)                                             Charkop III
z                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Kanld vaii   -'                    Nc
390.00                    G- AG ;rai 1  Mul, "                               rak.an
Charkopll 1    M5jiwadc l
290.00                                      i    khairnnc
Auoli 
190.00
Choarkop I         *<rai I
9(X) .((                                                               I
May-83          Oct-84          Fcb-86          Jul-57         Nov-88           Mar-90          Aug-91          Dec-92
Month I Ycar



- 55 -
Summary of Assessmients                Annexure IV
A. Achievemncnt of Objectives   Substantial     Partial         Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policics                                                                 W q  
Sector Policics
Financial objectives                          7 z                            F7
Instihtuional development                                    tii 
Physical objectives           W                               El             JLI
Poverty reduction            El                [              E            . 
GClnder issiues               O                O                               4 
Othcr social objectives                       El              E               El
Public sector management                                      El              El
Private sector developmeint                   El              E              El
Other (specify)                                               E               E
B. Project sustainability       Likely          Unlikely         UI-nccrtain
El [ El



- 59 -
Sumnimary of Assessmnents                 (Cownd).
Highlv
C. Bank pcrformance               satisfactory     Satisfactorv     DeficicTt
IdenLificalion                                                     I F   I
Preparation assi5tancc          C              L  
Appraisal                     L                  X              L
Supervision)                   L                L                L
1-li yh 
D. Borrower performance           satisfactorv     SatisfackIY      Deficient
Preiparalion                   LIL            LGI
Implemcntation                LIOL               L3I
Covenant compliance            LI               L                LI
Operation (if applicable)      LI               LI               LI
HighIv                                             Highly
F. Assessincni of  1tlc(mc s.iti.fa r                 l ()ry        Un-.maiLf;( lry   1v.%ati.factory
LI   LI   LI CI]









IMAGING



