OYFIGIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1544 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Bombay Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     (    t/            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1544 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         -4mek              , 1985, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the State of
Maharashtra with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State of
Maharashtra the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and State
of Maharashtra;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra acting by
its Governor, a State of India and includes any successor
thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "BMRDA"    means    the   Bombay   Metropolitan   Region
Development Authority established by the      Bombay Metropolitan
Region Development Authority Act, 1974 of Maharashtra;
(d) "MHADA"   means   the   Maharashtra  Housing   and  Area
Development Authority established under the Maharashtra Housing
and Area Development Act, 1976 of Maharashtra;
(e) "CIDCO" means the City and Industrial Development
Corporation   of  Maharashtra   Limited,  a   government  company
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower;
(f) "BMC" means the Bombay Municipal Corporation estab-
lished under the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888;
(g)  "CIDCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between Maharashtra and CIDCO pursuant to
Section 2.01 (b)(i) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(h) "BMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between Maharashtra and BMC pursuant to Section
2.01 (b)(i) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "KMC" means Kalyan Municipal Corporation, established
by Maharashtra under the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations
Act, 1949, pursuant to its Notification dated September 26, 1983;
(j)  "TMC" means the Thane Municipal Corporation, estab-
lished by Maharashtra under the Bombay Provincial Municipal
Corporations Act, 1949, pursuant to its Notification dated
September 22, 1982;
(k) "NBMC" means New Bombay Municipal Corporation, being
established by Maharashtra under the Bombay Provincial Municipal
Corporations Act, 1949, pursuant to its Preliminary Notification
dated November 18, 1983;


﻿-3-
(1) "BMR" means the area in Bombay metropolitan region as
specified in Schedule 1 of the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority Act, 1974 of Maharashtra; and
(m) "Implementing Agencies" means BMC, BMRDA, CIDCO, KMC,
MHADA, NBMC and TMC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty-seven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 137,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1995 and ending January 1,
2035, each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development Cre-
dit Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the  Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Maharashtra will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Maharashtra or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any Implementing Agency or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 4.02. Fo-r the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
Geheral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
tli -kgreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall nave been given by the Associa-
:ion to the Borrower and Maharashtra; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿-6-
(a) the CIDCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of Maharashtra and CIDCO; and
(b) the BMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of Maharashtra and BMC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally binding upon Maharashtra
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the CIDCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Maharashtra and CIDCO and is legally
binding upon Maharashtra and CIDCO in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) that the BMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Maharashtra and BMC in accordance with
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date.                     , 1985 is hereby
specified for the purposes of        tion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
NEW DELHI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives   thereunto  duly  authorized, have   caused   this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
i    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works             91,780,000          50%
(2) Plant, equipment         9,230,000          100% of foreign
and vehicles                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Home Improvement        28,040,000          75% of amounts
Loans                                      disbursed
(4) Consultants'             1,650,000          100%
services and
training
(5) Unallocated              7,000,000
TOTAL            137,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿-9-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1984.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 10 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the public
supply of affordable land, infrastructure and shelter particu-
larly for low income families within BMR and to help strengthen
the Implementing Agencies to plan, implement, finance and main-
tain shelter facilities and municipal services. The Project con-
sists of the following:
Part A:   Land and Infrastructure Servicing Program
The development of about 85,000 serviced residential, com-
mercial and small industrial plots, including community facili-
ties, core housing, and home improvement loans on about 15 sites
covering about 700 hectares, with implementation responsibilities
as follows:
(i) CIDCO - the whole program on sites within the proposed
area of NBMC;
(ii) MHADA - all on-site infrastructure in BMR other than in
NBMC; all off-site infrastructure in BMR other than
under the jurisdiction of NBMC and BMC; and
(iii) BMC - all off-site infrastructure in the jurisdiction
of BMC.
Part B:   Slum Upgrading Program
The upgrading of about 300 hectares of slum areas, including
provision of tenure, improved infrastructure, services, home
improvement loans and community facilities with implementation
responsibilities as follows:
(i) MHADA - on-site infrastructure; and
(ii) BMC - all off-site infrastructure in the jurisdiction
of BMC; on-site infrastructure on BMC owned sites.
Part C:   Municipal Services
The carrying out of a program of improvement in maintenance
of roads, drains and services, and collection and disposal of
refuse in municipal areas, to be implemented as follows:


﻿- 12 -
(i) BMC - in the jurisdiction of BMC;
(ii) TMC - in the jurisdiction of TMC;
(iii) KMC - in the jurisdiction of KMC; and
(iv) Maharashtra - in the proposed area of NBMC.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
The carrying out of a program to provide technical assist-
ance and staff training to improve the capacity of Implementing
Agencies, as follows:
(i) MHADA - design and implementation of organization,
management and finance system and training;
(ii) BMRDA - advisors for the Technical Committee of BMRDA
and staff training;
(iii) TMC - (a) review of development control and building
regulations, (b) design and implementation of organiza-
tion, management and finance systems, (c) technical
review of service delivery systems, and (d) staff
training.
(iv) such other technical assistance and training as the
Borrower, Maharashtra and the Association may agree
during the implementation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


