Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4545-SE 
GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
CREDIT MUTUEL DU SENEGAL 
 
Dated September 30, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4545-SE 
GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 30, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and 
Crédit Mutuel du Sénégal
 (
“Project 
Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement 
(“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the Republic of Senegal (“Recipient) and the 
Association, and the Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement between the Recipient and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as an Implementing Agency 
(the “GEF Grant”).  The Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is its Director General. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Crédit Mutuel du Sénégal 
 
Point E, Rue de Fatick (PE-17) 
 
B.P. 28052 
 
Dakar-
Médina 
 
Republic of Senegal 
Facsimile: 
 
221
33
869-4849 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
      /s/ 
Habib 
M. 
Fetini 
Authorized Representative 
 
CREDIT MUTUEL DU SENEGAL 
 
By 
 
      
/s/ Mamadou Touré 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement, 
the GEF Grant Agreement, the 
Project Operational Manual, the Administrative and 
Financial 
Manual and the Subsidiary Agreement. 
B. Manuals 
1. 
Unless the Association otherwise consents, t
he Project Implementing Entity shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational Manual 
and the Administrative and Financial Manual, and, shall ensure that none of the 
provisions of such manuals are amended, abrogated or waived without the prior written 
approval of the Association. 
2. 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of such manuals and the provisions of this 
Agreement or the Financing Agreement, the provisions of the Financing Agreement shall 
prevail. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Assessment, Environmental and 
Social Management Framework, and the Process Framework in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association, and the Project Implementing Entity shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the aforementioned without the prior written agreement of the Association. 
E.  
Sub-projects
 
1. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Micro-Credit Sub-projects under Parts 3.1(iii) and 
3.2(i) of the Project
.
Page  6
-
5
-
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Micro-Credit 
Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of the Project 
unless the Micro-Finance Institution has reviewed and concluded, on the basis of an 
appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the Sub-project conducted in 
accordance with the ESMF), conducted by the Technical Support Institution and the 
relevant CLP in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, that the 
proposed Micro-Credit Sub-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, and 
such additional criteria as may be specified in the Project Operational Manual: 
(a) 
the proposed Sub-project shall be prepared and implemented by a Micro-Credit 
Beneficiary, with assistance from the Technical Support Institution; 
(b) 
the proposed Sub-project consists of specific development activities set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Micro-Credit 
Sub-project, an environmental management plan and/or resettlement plan are or 
is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the ESMF and the 
Process Framework and have been approved by the Association.  
2. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-financing Agreements
(a) 
A Sub-Financing shall be made to the Beneficiaries under a Sub-financing 
Agreement signed between the Micro-Finance Institution and Micro-Credit 
Beneficiary for a Micro-Credit Sub-project, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including the following, whereby: 
(i) 
the terms of the Sub-financing shall be described in the Project 
Operational Manual.  
(ii) 
the Micro-Credit Beneficiary shall undertake to:  (A) carry out the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, social, engineering, financial, and managerial standards 
and practices, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Financing proceeds 
other than the Recipient; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources, operations, 
and expenditures relating to the Sub-project; (C) procure the goods, 
works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
financing in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule, and use the same exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
project; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
the Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Association, including the right to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Sub-project, the 
operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (B) obtain 
all information as it, or the Association, shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation, and financial condition of Sub-
project and the Beneficiary; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of any 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-financing upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-financing 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-financing Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association and to 
achieve the Project’s objective, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Sub-
financing Agreement or any of its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth below in the Financing Agreement. Each such 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Recipient not later than 30 days after the end of the period covered by such report for 
incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project 
Report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of the period.
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement. 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
·
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Project Implementing 
Entity has granted microfinancing to the target communities. 
·
The Project Implementing Entity will provide microfinance coverage to all of the 
Project’s target communities. 
·
The Project Implementing Entity will have continuing close and effective 
collaboration with the Technical Support Institution to ensure effective support 
for microfinance beneficiaries for the duration of the Project.
 
