Page  1
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
Dated                                          , 2009 
 
Page  2
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated                                                         , 2009, entered into between: 
The Republic of Senegal (“Recipient”); and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”). 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project through the DPM within the Ministry in charge of fisheries 
and cause Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2.(i) of the Project to be carried out by the Micro-
Finance Institution, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions and the agreement to be entered into between the World 
Bank and the Micro-Finance Institution, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time (“Project Agreement”). 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to 
six 
million United States Dollars ($6,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing 
Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Project.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Remedies 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
(a) 
The Member Country has taken or permitted to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the Micro-
Finance Institution of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The Micro-Finance Institution has failed to perform any obligation under 
the Project Agreement.  
(c) 
IBRD or IDA has declared the Micro-Finance Institution ineligible to
 
receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA, or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed 
in whole or in part by IBRD or IDA (including as administrator of funds 
provided by another financier), as a result of a determination by IBRD or 
IDA that the Micro-Finance Institution has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA. 
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Micro-Finance Institution will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(e) 
The legislation pursuant to which the Micro-Finance Institution has been 
established and is operating has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Micro-Finance Institution to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(f
)
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the IDA Financing shall have 
been suspended, cancelled, terminated, or become due and payable 
prior to its agreed maturity, in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the IDA Financing Agreement. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring 
is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any 
of its obligations under the IDA Financing Agreement; and  
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Recipient under the IDA Financing 
Agreement.
 
(g) 
Event prior to Effectiveness. 
The World Bank has determined after the 
Effective Date referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement that prior to 
such date but after the date of this Agreement, an event has occurred 
which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the Recipient's 
right to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had 
been effective on the date such event occurred. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below 
have been satisfied. 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Agreement on behalf of the Micro-Finance Institution have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action. 
(b) 
The Recipient has, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, selected 
the Micro-Finance Institution to support implementation of Part 3 of the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Project and a Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and such Project Implementing Entity. 
(c) 
The IDA Financing Agreement between the Recipient and IDA has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to their respective 
effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under 
it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a 
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Member 
Country, showing the following matters:  
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
(b) 
on behalf of the Micro-Finance Institution, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its 
behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
(c) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
Micro-Finance Institution and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist. 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the 
date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose 
Page  6
-
5
-
of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Article VI 
Recipient
’s Representative; Addresses 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Rue René N'diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Fascimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
Dakar 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
-
6
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
By: 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to empower the communities to reduce fishing 
pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the 
Cape Vert peninsula to the Saloum River delta). 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1.
Co-Management of Coastal Fisheries (GEF)
1.
 
Consolidation and Strengthening of Coastal Fisheries Co-management 
 
Provision of technical assistance, goods and Training, and carrying out of works in view 
of: 
(i) 
Confirmation of the pre-selection of the eight sites of the Project and 
awareness-raising with their communities in order to replicate the co-management model 
tested in the four Initial Pilot Sites;  
(ii) 
Replication of co-management initiatives in the selected neighboring 
communities including appointment of facilitators, establishment of CLPs and CLPAs 
and provision of support for the identification, formulation, implementation and 
evaluation of CLP Subprojects; and 
(iii) 
Development and implementation of local-level monitoring, control and 
surveillance measures for fisheries, including, 
inter alia, 
the participatory monitoring of 
fish catches, surveillance and enforcement of regulations. 
2.
 
Institutional support for a system of Local Fisheries Governance  
(i) 
Carrying out of a program activities to strengthen the capacity of the 
CLPAs for coordination and review of CLP Subprojects, including brokering agreements 
among different communities and CLPs; development of national-level management 
plans; development and implementation of consolidated local fisheries management plans 
that cover aggregate coastal fisheries in the CLPA area; supporting information exchange 
through inter-community visits and exchanges. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
Carrying out of a program of activities to enhance the capacity of the 
CNCPM to discuss and address strategic issues in the sustainable management of 
fisheries arising at the CLPA level. 
Part 2. Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries (GEF)
1.
 
Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs)  
(i) 
Contribute to the implementation of the policy for the rehabilitation of 
maritime ecosystems through the establishment of ZPPs, including, 
inter alia,
 
identification and designation of ZPPs; carrying out awareness campaigns on the 
management and benefits of ZPPs; building capacity of stakeholders for the co-
management of the ZPPs; and conducting baseline evaluations of sites and assessments of 
fish resources and fishing practices. 
(ii) 
Preparation and implementation of management plans for ZPPs. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies on sustainable financing mechanisms 
for ZPPs. 
(iv) 
Carrying out capacity-building activities aimed at strengthening the 
capacity of stakeholders and decision makers to replicate ZPPs. 
(v) 
Development of standards and instruments for monitoring, evaluation 
and surveillance of the ZPPs. 
 
2.
 Artificial 
Reefs
 
(i) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies for the selection of sites for immersion 
of artificial reefs and based on the findings of such studies and their inclusion in the Co-
Management Agreements of the ZPP Management Plans, immersion and management of 
the artificial reefs in the ZPPs. 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries for implementation of the national artificial reef immersion program. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies on sustainable financing mechanisms 
for artificial reefs. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iv) 
Strengthening of community-based management of artificial reefs 
through the development and implementation of management and surveillance plans. 
(v) 
Development and implementation of protocols and instruments for 
participatory monitoring and evaluation of artificial reefs. 
3.
 
Introduction of Access Rights and Instruments for their Management  
Development of a regime of access rights, and provision of support to 
communities to test the introduction of a management system based on access rights to 
resources, areas or coastal fisheries.  
4.
 
Market incentives for sustainable management for targeted fisheries  
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, goods and Training, and financing 
of Operating Costs, in view of the creation of market incentives for sustainable 
management for targeted fisheries, including, 
inter alia,
 validation and pre-evaluation of 
selected fisheries; carrying out of a study on the prerequisites for access to eco-
certification markets; implementation, monitoring and coordination of action plans for 
eco-certification of targeted fisheries and restructuring of the sector; and certification and 
promotion of the targeted fisheries.  
Part 3. Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and
Alternative 
Livelihoods for Fishers and Fish Processors (IDA)
1.
 
Poverty Alleviation Initiatives in Project-targeted Communities 
Piloting of initiatives designed to alleviate and reduce poverty in targeted fishing 
communities and compensation for the negative impacts caused by local co-management 
initiatives or initiatives for rehabilitation of ecosystems, through the provision of:  
(i) 
Through the COMO, AL Sub-grants to fishing communities for specific 
development activities designed to increase revenues by improving the quality of fish 
products.  
(ii) 
Through the COMO, AL Sub-grants to members of the fishing 
communities targeted under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project for specific development 
activities designed to expand alternative income-generating activities.  
Page  11
-
10
-
(iii) 
Through the Micro-Finance Institution, Micro-Credits to women aimed 
at encouraging small business development and expanded local product development. 
2.
 
Support for Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing for Fishers, Fish Processors 
and Fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
(i) 
Provision of Micro-Credits through the Micro-Finance Institution, for 
specific development activities designed to support fishers, women fish processors and 
fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
in finding alternative income-generating activities outside 
the fishing sector, including provision of training and technical support in identifying and 
implementing such activities. 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance through the Technical Support 
Institution aimed at developing basic skills and small business management training for 
the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of a program of activities through the Technical Support 
Institution aimed at providing on-going support to the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries, 
including support on organization skills, life-management skills and conflict management 
skills. 
3.
 
Capacity-Building, Monitoring and Evaluation and Communications 
Strengthening the capacity of the relevant specialists within the DPM to manage 
and monitor activities supported by Part 3 of the Project through the provision of goods, 
Training, technical assistance and an allocation for Operating Costs. 
Part 4. Capacity-Building, Monitoring and Evaluation and Communications (GEF)
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries 
to manage and implement the project through:  
(i) 
Development of a marine fisheries code, including the development and 
implementation of the national fisheries management plans;  
(ii) 
Provision of goods, technical assistance and allocation for operating 
costs to the DPM, and carrying out of works, for Project coordination and management, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
Provision of technical assistance to support the replication at the regional 
and sub-regional level of Project activities. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Ministry of the Recipient in Charge of Fisheries, through its Directorate of 
Marine Fisheries (DPM), shall be in charge of overall implementation of the 
Project. To this end, the Recipient shall, throughout Project implementation, 
maintain the DPM with adequate financial and human resources for the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, throughout Project implementation: 
(i) 
maintain the COMO within the DPM, with responsibility for 
implementing the day-to-day activities of the Project; and 
(ii) 
ensure that the COMO is assigned with adequate personnel, including a 
financial management specialist, procurement specialist, and a national 
co-management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a 
specialist in fisheries management, and a specialist in community 
participation, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
World Bank. 
3. 
In carrying out the implementation of the Project, the COMO shall be assisted 
by: (i) facilitators at the community level for implementation of Part 1 of the 
Project; (ii) an institution selected pursuant to Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement 
for implementation of Part 2 of the Project; and (iii) the Micro-Finance 
Institution and the Technical Support Institution referred to in Section 5.01(a) of 
this Agreement with responsibility for implementation of Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) 
of the Project. 
B. Implementation 
Covenants
 
The Recipient shall, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank, ensure that: 
1. 
A CLP is established, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, in 
each of the eight sites selected under Part 1.2 of the Project by no later than 
eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date. 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
CLPAs are established, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, in 
the central coastal region by no later than six months after the Effective Date. 
3. 
A Sub-financing Agreement (i.e. a co-management agreement) for a CLP Project 
has been signed between the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries  and 
a
CLP in each of the eight sites selected under Part 1.2 of the Project by no later 
than 24 months after the Effective Date.  
4. 
Consolidated local fisheries management plans referred to in Part 1.2 of the 
Project have been prepared and submitted to the CNPCM by at least four 
different CLPAs in the central coastal region by no later than 24 months after the 
Effective Date. 
5. 
At least one ZPP Management Plan referred to in Part 2.1(i) of the Project has 
been legally established by no later than 24 months after Effective Date and a 
second one by no later than 30 months after Effective Date for the sites of sites 
de Mballing, Nianing, Pointe-
Sarène et Mbodiène, and Ouakam-Carrière. 
6. 
All the small-scale fishing and transport vessels originating from within the 
central coastal region have been registered in accordance with Part 2.3 of the 
Project by no later than six months after the Effective Date.  
7. 
The Recipient has recruited an external auditor for the Project with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank by no later than 
six months after the Effective Date. 
8. 
The baseline data, satisfactory to the World Bank, for key performance indicators 
for the Project has been collected by no later than two months after the Effective 
Date. 
9. 
The Recipient has recruited within the COMO, the national co-management 
specialist supporting implementation of Part 1 of the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the World Bank and in accordance with the terms of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by no later than two months after the Effective 
Date. 
10. 
The Recipient has recruited the institution to support implementation of Part 2 of 
the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank and in accordance with 
the terms of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by no later than six 
months after the Effective Date. 
Page  15
-
14
-
C. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Micro-
Finance Institution’s Respective Part 
of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing 
available to the Micro-Finance Institution under a subsidiary agreement between 
the Recipient and the Micro-Finance Institution, under terms and conditions 
approved by the World Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the World Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E.
 
Operational Manuals
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a Project Operational Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank, is adopted and furnished to the World 
Bank for approval setting forth the eligibility criteria and appraisal, approval, 
contracting and supervision arrangements and procedures for the Subgrants and 
Micro-Credits under Part 3 of the Project, including a model Sub-financing 
Agreement, and the detailed arrangements and procedures for: (i) institutional 
coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project; (ii) environmental and 
social safeguards management; and (iii) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and 
communication. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that an Administrative and Financial Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, is adopted and furnished to the 
World Bank for approval for the Project setting forth the detailed arrangements 
and procedures for: (i) disbursement and financial management; 
(ii) procurement; and (iii) such other administrative, financial, technical and 
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Project Operational Manual (provided, however, that in case of any conflict 
between the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the provisions of 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail), and shall ensure 
Page  16
-
15
-
that none of the provisions of the Project Operational Manual are amended, 
abrogated or waived without the prior written approval of the World Bank. 
F. Sub-projects 
1. General
The Recipient, through the DPM, shall appraise, approve, and monitor the 
Subprojects under Part 1 and Parts 3.1(i) and 3.1(ii) of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section I.F and the Operational Manuals.  
2. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for CLP Subprojects under Part 1 of the 
Project
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Part 1 of the Project unless the 
CNCPM and the relevant CLPA (if operational) have reviewed and concluded, as 
confirmed by the relevant Co-Management Agreement, on the basis of an 
appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the CLP Subproject 
conducted in accordance with the EMF), conducted in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the World Bank, that the proposed Subproject satisfies 
the eligibility criteria specified below, and such additional criteria as may be 
specified in the Project Operational Manual:   
(a) 
the proposed CLP Subproject shall be prepared and implemented by a 
CLP, with assistance from a facilitator, which has the necessary 
experience and qualifications to provide support to the carrying out the 
CLP Subproject, and has prepared an acceptable co-management plan 
and budget for the CLP Subproject; 
(b) 
the proposed CLP Subproject consists of specific development activities 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia, 
establishing:
 
(i) restrictions on fish sizes or on fishing gear that go 
beyond existing regulations; (ii) limits on daily catch, the number of 
daily fishing trips, and daily landings; (iii) setting allowable catch within 
a
specific marine area; and (iv) seasonal closures; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the 
Subproject, an environmental management plan and/or resettlement plan 
are or is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the 
ESMF and the Process Framework and have been approved by the World 
Bank.  
Page  17
-
16
-
3. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for AL Subprojects under Parts 3.1(i) and 
3.1(ii) of the Project
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed AL 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Part 3 of the Project unless the 
COMO has reviewed and concluded, on the basis of an appraisal (including an 
environmental assessment for the Subproject conducted in accordance with the 
ESMF), conducted in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the World Bank, 
that the proposed AL Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, 
and such additional criteria as may be specified in the Project Operational 
Manual: 
(a) 
the proposed Subproject shall be prepared and implemented by an AL 
Beneficiary with assistance from the Technical Support Institution; 
(b) 
the proposed Subproject consists of specific development activities set 
forth in Part 3 of the Project and further elaborated in the Project 
Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the 
Subproject, an environmental management plan and/or resettlement plan 
are or is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the 
EMF and the Process Framework and have been approved by the World 
Bank.  
4. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Micro-Credit Subprojects under Parts 
3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of the Project
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Micro-
Credit Subproject shall be eligible for financing under Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of 
the Project unless the Micro-Finance Institution has reviewed and concluded, on 
the basis of an appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the 
Subproject conducted in accordance with the ESMF), conducted by the Technical 
Support Institution and the relevant CLP in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the World Bank, that the proposed Micro-Credit Subproject 
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, and such additional criteria as 
may be specified in the Project Operational Manual: 
(a) 
the proposed Subproject shall be prepared and implemented by an Micro-
Credit Beneficiary, with assistance from the Technical Support 
Institution; 
Page  18
-
17
-
(b) 
the proposed Subproject consists of specific development activities set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Micro-
Credit Subproject, an environmental management plan and/or 
resettlement plan are or is required, such plan or plans have been 
prepared pursuant to the ESMF and the Process Framework and have 
been approved by the World Bank.  
5. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-financing Agreements
(a) 
A Sub-Financing shall be made to the Beneficiaries under a Sub-
financing Agreement signed between the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries and a Beneficiary for CLP Subprojects or an AL Sub-
Project, and between the Micro-Finance Institution and Micro-Credit 
Beneficiary for a Micro-Credit Subproject, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the World Bank, including the following, whereby: 
(i) 
(x) 
For a CLP Subproject: 
the Sub-financing shall be made 
on a grant basis. 
(y) 
For an AL Subproject
:
the terms of the Sub-financing 
shall be described in the Project Operational Manual. 
(z) 
For a Micro-Credit Subproject
:
the terms of the Sub-
financing shall be described in the Project Operational 
Manual. 
(ii) 
the Beneficiary shall undertake to: (A) carry out the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, social, engineering, financial, and managerial 
standards and practices, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of Financing proceeds other than the Recipient; 
(B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the resources, operations, and 
expenditures relating to the Subproject; (C) procure the goods, 
works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Sub-financing in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule 2, and use the same exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subproject; and 
Page  19
-
18
-
(iii) 
the Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests 
and those of the World Bank, including the right to: (A) inspect 
by itself, or jointly with the World Bank, if the World Bank shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; (B) obtain all information as it, 
or the World Bank, shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation, and financial condition of Subproject 
and the Beneficiary; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of 
any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-financing upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the Sub-financing Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of 
the World Bank and to achieve the Project’s objective, and, except as the 
World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive the Sub-financing Agreement or any of its provisions. 
G. Safeguards 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental Assessment, Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, and the Process Framework in a manner satisfactory to 
the World Bank, and the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
aforementioned without the prior written agreement of the World Bank.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth below in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than 
45 days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following: 
Page  20
-
19
-
(a) 
Increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-
management sites. 
(b) 
Reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-
management sites. 
(c) 
8 new co-management sub-project proposals are approved as legal 
agreements with the Recipient and successfully implemented by the 
Closing Date. 
(d) 
70 percent of community members surveyed in participating 
communities are satisfied with project activities to rehabilitate coastal 
fish stocks. 
(e) 
Each targeted community has access to a system of micro-credits and 
poverty reduction measures have been implemented in at least the four 
Initial Pilot Sites.
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the World Bank no later than 6 months after the end of such 
period.
 
Page  21
-
20
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  
(b)  Shopping  
(c)  Procurement from UN Agencies 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Community Participation 
Page  22
-
21
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2  b
elow, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget
 
(FBS) 
(c)  Single Source Selection (SSS) 
(d)  Least Cost Selection 
(e)  Individual Consultants 
(f)  Quality Based Selection   
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for works (in case of  civil works occurring during the project’s 
implementation) estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; (d) each contract for services other than 
consultants’ services  estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more; 
(e) each contract for individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; (f) all contract procured on the basis of single source or direct 
contracting; and (g) the first contract of goods procured through National 
Competitive Bidding  and the first contract of consultant services procured 
through Quality and Cost Based Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association. 
The procurement plan will be updated annually, including also the prior review 
thresholds, in agreement with the project team or as required to reflect the actual 
project implementation needs and improvements of the procurement 
performance.
 
Page  23
-
22
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and 
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, 
Operating Costs and 
consultants’ services 
for Part 1 of the Project 
 1,240,000 
100% 
(2) Subprojects under 
Part 1 of the Project 
 
1,210,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(3)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
for Part 2 of the Project 
 2,400,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
for Part 4 of the Project 
 910,000 
100% 
(5) Unallocated 
 
240,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 6,000,000 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
(b) 
under Category 2 unless the respective Sub-financing Agreement has 
been signed in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and the 
Project Operational Manual. 
(c) 
under Categories 1 and 2 unless the national co-management specialist to 
support implementation of Component 1 of the Project has been recruited 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
under Category 3 unless the institution to support implementation of 
Component 2 of the Project has been recruited in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
March 31, 2012. 
Page  25
-
24
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Administrative and Financial Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Recipient, outlining administrative, financial management, and accounting 
arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the World Bank for purposes of 
Project implementation and shall be applied by the Recipient in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written consent of the World Bank, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Administrative, Financial, and 
Accounting Procedures Manual 
2. 
“AL Beneficiary” means the individuals, families or community groups whose 
income from fishing is reduced due to co-management initiatives, or to measures 
of rehabilitation of maritime ecosystems, that meet the eligibility criteria set out 
in Section I.F.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in the 
Project Operational Manual, to whom or for whose benefit an AL Sub-grant or 
AL Sub-loan is made or proposed to be made. 
3. 
“AL Subproject” means a specific development activity to be financed under Part 
3.1(i) or 3.1(ii) of the Project. 
4. 
“AL Sub-grants” means a Sub-grant made to an AL Beneficiary. 
5. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
6. 
“Association” means the International Development Association. 
7. 
“Beneficiary” means either an AL Beneficiary, a CLP Beneficiary, or a Micro-
Credit Beneficiary, and “Beneficiaries” means more than one such Beneficiary. 
8. 
“CBO” means a community-based organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient. 
9. “CLP” 
means 
the 
Comité Local de Pêcheurs,
 a committee established, or to be 
established, in accordance with relevant laws of the Recipient and consisting of 
local fishermen and stakeholders, responsible for developing co-management 
initiatives and CLP Subprojects for their local communities. 
Page  26
-
25
-
10. 
“CLP Subproject” means a specific development activity under Part 1(i) and (ii) 
of the Project consisting of proposed co-management initiatives to be carried out 
by a CLP Beneficiary and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing through a Sub-grant. 
11. “CLPA” 
means 
the
 Conseil Local de Pêche Artisanale 
or the Local Artisanal 
Fisheries Council, a fisheries council
,
established at supra-community level 
composed of representatives of the CLPs and the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries and with responsibility for consolidating and coordinating 
local co-management initiatives developed or proposed by the CLPs in the 
CLPAs geographical area. 
12. 
“CLP Beneficiary” means a local community which meets the eligibility criteria 
set out in Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in 
the Project Operational Manual and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-grant is 
made or proposed to be made 
13. 
“CNCPM” means the Recipient’s National Consultative Council for Marine 
Fishers. 
14. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
15. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the relevant Co-financier providing for the Co-financing to be 
extended by such Co-financier. 
16. 
“Co-management” means a system of co-management of fishing resources, 
including area-based co-management, established between the Recipient and 
local fisheries committees. 
17. 
“Co-management Agreement” means the co-management agreement signed by 
the Minister in charge of fisheries for each CLP Subproject. 
18. “COMO” 
means 
Cellule Opérationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre, 
the implementation 
unit for the Project established within DPM (
Direction des Pêches Maritimes
). 
19. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
Page  27
-
26
-
20. 
 “DPM” means the 
Direction des Pêches Maritime, 
the Directorate for Marine 
Fisheries within the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the assessment, dated August 21, 2008 and 
published by Infoshop on July 8, 2008, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
World Bank, describing the potential adverse environmental impact of the 
Project and measures for offsetting, reducing, or mitigating such impact, and 
including the Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
22. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
framework setting out modalities to be followed in assessing the potential 
adverse environmental and social impact associated with activities to be 
implemented under the Project and the specific Sub-Projects, and the measures to 
be taken to offset, reduce, or mitigate such adverse impact.  
23. 
“IDA Financing” means the credit in the amount of two million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000) to be provided by the 
Association to assist in financing the Project. 
24. 
“IDA Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
the Recipient providing for the IDA Grant. 
25. 
“Micro-Credit Subproject” means a specific development activity to be financed 
under Part 3.1(iii) or 3.2(i) of the Project. 
26. 
“Micro-Credit Beneficiary” means: (i) the fishers, women fish processors and 
fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
who choose to leave the fishing sector to find 
alternative income-generating activities outside the fishing sector; or (ii) women 
living in the target sites that choose to obtain a Micro-Credit to start or expand a 
micro-enterprise, and that meet the eligibility criteria set out in Section I.F.4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in the Project Operational 
Manual, to whom or for whose benefit a Micro-Credit is made or proposed to be 
made. 
27. 
“Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries” means on the Effective Date, 
the 
Ministère de l’Economie Maritime, des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et 
de la Pisciculture,
 the Recipient’s Ministry of Maritime Economy and Transport 
or, thereafter, any other Ministry of the Recipient in charge of the fishing sector. 
28. 
“Operational Manuals” means the Project Operational Manuel and the 
Administrative and Financial Manual. 
Page  28
-
27
-
29. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred by the 
COMO on account of the Project implementation including office supplies, fuel 
and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and other 
communications charges, office rent and insurance for vehicles, motorcycles and 
office equipment and furniture, travel and supervision. 
30. 
“Initial Pilot Sites” means the pilot sites of Ouakam, Ngaparou, Foudiougne and 
Bétanti. 
31. 
“Process Framework” means document prepared and adopted by the Recipient on 
August 21, 2008 and published by Infoshop on July 8, 2008, and satisfactory to 
the World Bank, to guide the mitigation of potential negative impacts on the 
livelihoods on populations resident in the targeted areas, as the same may be 
modified from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
World Bank. 
32. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
33. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
34. 
“Program” means the program set forth or referred to in the letter of Sector 
Policy dated April, 2007 from the Recipient to the World Bank, describing a set 
of objectives, policies and actions for promoting the Recipient’s fisheries sector 
to be one of its key drivers of economic growth.
 
35. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Micro-Finance Institution” means an existing 
micro-finance agency to be selected by the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01(a) 
of this Agreement and complying with at least the following requirements: (i) the 
micro-finance agency is a well established national agency; (ii) which has the 
ability to cover at least the geographic intervention area of the Project; and 
(iii) has prior experience in the micro-finance for the fisheries sector. 
36. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section I.E.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, setting forth the eligibility criteria 
and appraisal, approval, contracting and supervision arrangements and 
procedures for the Sub-grants and Sub-loans under Part 3 of the Project, 
including a model of Sub-financing Agreement, and the detailed arrangements 
Page  29
-
28
-
and procedures for: (i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the 
Project; (ii) disbursement and financial management; (iii) procurement; 
(iv) 
environmental and social safeguards management; (v) monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting and communication; and (vi) such other administrative, 
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be 
required for the Project. 
37. 
“Sub-financing” means a Sub-grant or a Micro-Credit, and “Sub-financings” 
means, collectively, all such Sub-grants and Micro-Credits. 
38. 
Sub-financing Agreement” means an agreement concluded between, on the one 
part, the Recipient or the (Micro-Finance Institution) and a Beneficiary, on the 
other part, for the purpose of extending a Sub-financing to such Beneficiary. 
39. 
“Sub-grant” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Financing for 
the purpose of financing eligible expenditures required for a Sub-project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.F.2, I.F.3 or I.F.4 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
40. 
 “Sub-project” means either an AL Subproject, a CLP Subproject or a Micro-
Credit Subproject, and “Subprojects” means, collectively, all such Subprojects. 
41. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Micro-Finance Institution. 
42. 
“Technical Support Institution” means the technical institution to be recruited 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement to support implementation of 
Part 3 of the Project.   
43. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated 
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly 
related to training preparation and implementation.  
44. 
“ZPPs” or “Protected Fishing Zones” means the areas to be established under 
Part 2.1 of the Project where fishing would be limited in order to protect key 
habitat of fish stocks. 
Page  30
-
29
-
45. 
“ZPP Management Plan” means the management plans to be prepared under 
Part 2.1(ii) of the Project for each ZPP and that will define the management and 
conservation measures applicable in each ZPP.
 
