Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4545-SN 
GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 12, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4545-SN 
GRANT NUMBER TF093654 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 12, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
SENEGAL (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to two 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the EURO. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the DPM within the 
Ministry in charge of fisheries and cause Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2.(i) of the Project to 
be carried out by the Micro-Finance Institution, in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that: the 
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, selected: 
(i) the Micro-Finance Institution to support implementation of Part 
3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of the Project; the fiduciary capacity of such Micro-
Finance Institution has been assessed by the Association and all relevant 
mitigation measures necessary to enhance the capacity of such entity 
have been identified by the Association and a corresponding action plan 
has been adopted by such entity; and (ii) the Technical Support 
Institution for the implementation of Part 3 of the Project, according to 
the terms of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
A Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and such Micro-Finance Institution; 
(c) 
the GEF Grant Agreement between the Recipient and the IBRD acting as 
implementing agency of the GEF has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to their respective effectiveness or to the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness 
of the Financing Agreement) have been fulfilled; 
(d) 
The Recipient has finalized the shortlist and obtained the non-objection 
of the Association for the recruitment of the institution to support 
implementation of Part 2 of the Project;  
(e) 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Operational Manual and the 
Administrative and Financial Manual referred to in Section 1.E of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;  
(f) 
The Recipient has selected and obtained the non-objection of the 
Association for the recruitment within the COMO, of a national co-
management specialist referred to in Section I.A2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(g) 
The Recipient has adopted an 
arrêté
 defining the mandate for the CLPAs 
to be established under Part 1.2 of the Project. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
the Micro-Finance Institution and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the 
Micro-Finance Institution in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister in charge of finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Rue René N'diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Fascimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
Dakar 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By 
    /s/
 
Amadou Lamine 
Bâ 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
         /s/ Benjamin MacDonald 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to empower the communities to reduce fishing 
pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the 
Cape Vert peninsula to the Saloum River delta). 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
Co-Management of Coastal Fisheries
 
(GEF)
1. 
Consolidation and Strengthening of Coastal Fisheries Co-management 
 
Provision of technical assistance, goods and Training and carrying out of works in view 
of: 
(i) 
Confirmation of the pre-selection of the eight sites of the Project and 
awareness-raising with their communities in order to replicate the co-management model 
tested in the four Initial Pilot Sites;  
(ii) 
Replication of co-management initiatives in the selected neighboring 
communities including appointment of facilitators, establishment of CLPs and CLPAs 
and provision of support for the identification, formulation, implementation and 
evaluation of CLP Sub-projects; and 
(iii) 
Development and implementation of local level monitoring, control and 
surveillance measures for fisheries, including, 
inter alia, 
the participatory monitoring of 
fish catches, surveillance and enforcement of regulations. 
2. 
Institutional support for a system of Local Fisheries Governance  
(i) 
Carrying out of a program of activities to strengthen the capacity of the 
CLPAs for coordination and review of CLP Sub-projects, including brokering 
agreements among different communities and CLPs; development of national-level 
management plans; development and implementation of consolidated local fisheries 
management plans that cover aggregate coastal fisheries in the CLPA area; supporting 
information exchange through inter-community visits and exchanges. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
Carrying out of a program of activities to enhance the capacity of the 
CNCPM to discuss and address strategic issues in the sustainable management of 
fisheries arising at the CLPA level. 
Part 2. Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries (GEF)
1. 
Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs) 
(i) 
Contribution to the implementation of the policy for the rehabilitation of 
maritime ecosystems through the establishment of ZPPs, including, 
inter alia,
 
identification and designation of ZPPs; carrying out awareness campaigns on the 
management and benefits of ZPPs; building capacity of stakeholders for the co-
management of the ZPPs; conducting baseline evaluations of sites and assessments of 
fish resources and fishing practices. 
(ii) 
Preparation and implementation of management plans for ZPPs. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies on sustainable financing mechanisms 
for ZPPs. 
(iv) 
Carrying out capacity-building activities aimed at strengthening the 
capacity of stakeholders and decision makers to replicate ZPPs. 
(v) 
Development of standards and instruments for monitoring, evaluation 
and surveillance of the ZPPs. 
 
2. Artificial 
Reefs
 
(i) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies for the selection of sites for immersion 
of artificial reefs and based on the findings of such studies and their inclusion in the Co-
Management Agreements and the ZPP Management Plans, immersion and management 
of the artificial reefs in the ZPPs. 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries for implementation of the national artificial reef immersion program. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies on sustainable financing mechanisms 
for artificial reefs. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
Strengthening of community-based management of artificial reefs 
through the development and implementation of management and surveillance plans. 
(v) 
Development and implementation of protocols and instruments for 
participatory monitoring and evaluation of artificial reefs. 
3. 
Introduction of Access Rights and Instruments for their Management 
Development of a regime of access rights, and provision of support to 
communities to test the introduction of a management system based on access rights to 
resources, areas or coastal fisheries.  
4. 
Market incentives for sustainable management for targeted fisheries  
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, goods and Training, and financing 
of Operating Costs, in view of the creation of market incentives for sustainable 
management for targeted fisheries, including, 
inter alia,
 validation and pre-evaluation of 
selected fisheries; carrying out of a study on the prerequisites for access to eco-
certification markets; implementation, monitoring and coordination of action plans for 
eco-certification of targeted fisheries and restructuring of the sector; and certification and 
promotion of the targeted fisheries.  
Part 3. Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and Alternative 
Livelihoods for Fishers and Fish Processors (IDA)
1. 
Poverty Alleviation Initiatives in Project-targeted Communities 
Piloting of initiatives designed to alleviate and reduce poverty in targeted fishing 
communities and compensation for the negative impacts caused by local co-management 
initiatives or initiatives for rehabilitation of ecosystems, through the provision of:  
(i) 
Through the COMO, AL Sub-grants to fishing communities for specific 
development activities designed to increase revenues by improving the quality of fish 
products.  
(ii) 
Through the COMO, AL Sub-grants to members of the fishing 
communities targeted under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project for specific development 
activities designed to expand alternative income-generating activities.  
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
Through the Micro-Finance Institution, Micro-Credits to women aimed 
at encouraging small business development and expanded local product development. 
2. 
Support for Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing for Fishers, Fish Processors 
and Fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
(i) 
Provision of Micro-Credits through the Micro-Finance Institution, for 
specific development activities designed to support fishers, women fish processors and 
fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
in finding alternative income-generating activities outside 
the fishing sector, including provision of training and technical support in identifying and 
implementing such activities. 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance through the Technical Support 
Institution aimed at developing basic skills and small business management training for 
the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries. 
(iii) 
Carrying out of a program of activities through the Technical Support 
Institution aimed at providing on-going support to the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries, 
including support on organization skills, life-management skills and conflict management 
skills. 
3. 
Capacity Building, Monitoring and Evaluation and Communications 
Strengthening the capacity of the relevant specialists within the DPM to manage 
and monitor activities supported by Part 3 of the Project through the provision of goods, 
Training, technical assistance and an allocation for Operating Costs. 
Part 4. Capacity Building, Monitoring and Evaluation and Communications (GEF)
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries 
to manage and implement the project through:  
(i) 
Development of a marine fisheries code, including the development and 
implementation of the national fisheries management plans;  
(ii) 
Provision of goods, technical assistance and an allocation for Operating 
Costs to the DPM, and carrying out of works, for Project coordination and management, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(iii) 
Provision of technical assistance to support the replication at the regional 
and sub-regional level of Project activities.  
Page  12
-
11 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Ministry of the Recipient in Charge of Fisheries, through its Directorate of 
Marine Fisheries (DPM), shall be in charge of overall implementation of the 
Project. To this end, the Recipient shall, throughout Project implementation, 
maintain the DPM with adequate financial and human resources for the Project.  
2. 
The Recipient shall, throughout Project implementation: 
(i) 
maintain the COMO within the DPM, with responsibility for 
implementing the day-to-day activities of the Project; and 
(ii) 
ensure that the COMO is assigned with adequate personnel, including a 
financial management specialist, procurement specialist, and a national 
co-management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a 
specialist in fisheries management, and a specialist in community 
participation, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.  
3. 
In carrying out the implementation of the Project, the COMO shall be assisted 
by: (i) facilitators at the community level for implementation of Part 1 of the 
Project; (ii) an institution selected pursuant to Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement 
for implementation of Part 2 of the Project; and (iii) the Micro-Finance 
Institution and the Technical Support Institution referred to in Section 5.01(a) of 
this Agreement with responsibility for implementation of Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) 
of the Project. 
B. Implementation 
Covenants 
The Recipient shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, ensure that: 
1. 
A CLP is established, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in 
each of the eight sites selected under Part 1.2 of the Project by not later than 
eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date. 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
2. 
CLPAs are established, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in 
the central coastal region by no later than six months after the Effective Date. 
3. 
A Sub-financing Agreement (i.e. a co-management agreement) for a CLP Sub-
Project has been signed between the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of 
fisheries and a CLP Beneficiary in each of the eight sites selected under Part 1.2 
of the Project by no later than 24 months after Effective Date.  
4. 
Consolidated local fisheries management plans referred to in Part 1.2 of the 
Project have been prepared and submitted to the CNPCM by at least four 
different CLPAs in the central coastal region by no later than twenty four (24) 
months after Effective Date. 
5. 
At least one ZPP Management Plan referred to in Part 2.1(i) of the Project has 
been legally established by no later than twenty four (24) months after Effective 
Date and a second one by no later than thirty (30) months after Effective Date for 
the sites of sites de Mballing, Nianing, Pointe-
Sarène et Mbodiène, and Ouakam-
Carrière.  
6. 
All the small-scale fishing and transport vessels originating from within the 
central coastal region have been registered in accordance with Part 2.3 of the 
Project by no later than six (6) months after Effective Date.  
7. 
The Recipient has recruited an external auditor for the Project with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association by no later than 
six (6) months after the Effective Date. 
8. 
The baseline data, satisfactory to the Association, for key performance indicators 
for the Project has been collected by no later than two (2) months after the 
Effective Date 
9. 
The Recipient has recruited within the COMO, the national co-management 
specialist supporting implementation of Part 1 of the Project, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the terms of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by no later than two (2) months after the Effective 
Date.; and 
10. 
The Recipient has recruited the institution to support implementation of Part 2 of 
the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with 
the terms of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by no later than six (6) 
months after the Effective Date. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
C. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Micro-
Finance Institution’s Respective Part 
of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing 
available to the Micro-Finance Institution under a subsidiary agreement between 
the Recipient and the Micro-Finance Institution, under terms and conditions 
approved by the Association (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E.
 
Manuals
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a Project Operational Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, is adopted and furnished to the 
Association for approval setting forth the eligibility criteria and appraisal, 
approval, contracting and supervision arrangements and procedures for the Sub-
grants and Micro-Credits under Part 3 of the Project, including a model Sub-
financing Agreement, and the detailed arrangements and procedures for: 
(i) 
institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the Project; 
(ii) environmental and social safeguards management; and (iii) monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting and communication. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that an Administrative and Financial Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, is adopted and furnished to the 
Association for approval for the Project setting forth the detailed arrangements 
and procedures for: (i) disbursement and financial management; 
(ii) procurement; and (iii) such other administrative, financial, technical and 
organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project.  
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Project Operational Manual and the Administrative and Financial Manual 
(provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the provisions of such 
manuals and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
shall prevail), and shall ensure that none of the provisions of such manuals are 
amended, abrogated or waived without the prior written approval of the 
Association. 
F. Sub-projects 
1. General
The Recipient, through the DPM, shall appraise, approve, and monitor the Sub-
projects under Parts 1 and Parts 3.1(i) and 3.1(ii) of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section I.F and the Operational Manuals.  
2. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for CLP Sub-projects under Part 1 of the 
Project.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing under Part 1 of the Project unless the 
CNCPM and the relevant CLPA (if operational) have reviewed and concluded, as 
confirmed by the relevant Co-Management Agreement, on the basis of an 
appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the CLP Sub-project 
conducted in accordance with the ESMF) conducted in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, that the proposed Sub-project satisfies 
the eligibility criteria specified below, and such additional criteria as may be 
specified in the Project Operational Manual:   
(a) 
the proposed CLP Sub-project shall be prepared and implemented by a 
CLP, with assistance from a facilitator, which has the necessary 
experience and qualifications to provide support to the carrying out of 
the CLP Sub-project, and has prepared an acceptable co-management 
plan and budget for the CLP Sub-project; 
(b) 
the proposed CLP Sub-project consists of specific development activities 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia, 
establishing:
 
(i) restrictions on fish sizes or on fishing gear that go 
beyond existing regulations; (ii) limits on daily catch, the number of 
daily fishing trips, and daily landings; (iii) setting allowable catch within 
a
specific marine area; and (iv) seasonal closures; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Sub-
project, an environmental management plan and/or resettlement plan are 
or is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
ESMF and the Process Framework and have been approved by the 
Association.  
3. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for AL Sub-projects under Parts 3.1(i) and 
3.1(ii) of the Project
.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed AL Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing under Part 3 of the Project unless the 
COMO has reviewed and concluded, on the basis of an appraisal (including an 
environmental assessment for the Sub-project conducted in accordance with the 
ESMF), conducted in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
that the proposed AL Sub-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, 
and such additional criteria as may be specified in the Project Operational 
Manual: 
(a) 
the proposed Sub-project shall be prepared and implemented by an AL 
Beneficiary with assistance from the Technical Support Institution; 
(b) 
the proposed Sub-project consists of specific development activities set 
forth in Part 3 of the Project and further elaborated in the Project 
Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Sub-
project, an environmental management plan and/or resettlement plan are 
or is required, such plan or plans have been prepared pursuant to the 
ESMF and the Process Framework and have been approved by the 
Association.  
4. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Micro-Credit Sub-projects under Parts 
3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) of the Project
.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Micro-
Credit Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under Parts 3.1(iii) and 3.2(i) 
of 
the Project unless the Micro-Finance Institution has reviewed and concluded, on 
the basis of an appraisal (including an environmental assessment for the Sub-
project conducted in accordance with the ESMF), conducted by the Technical 
Support Institution and the relevant CLP in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, that the proposed Micro-Credit Sub-project 
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, and such additional criteria as 
may be specified in the Project Operational Manual: 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
(a) 
the proposed Sub-project shall be prepared and implemented by a Micro-
Credit Beneficiary, with assistance from the Technical Support 
Institution; 
(b) 
the proposed Sub-project consists of specific development activities set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
if, on the basis of the environmental assessment conducted for the Micro-
Credit Sub-project, an environmental management plan and/or 
resettlement plan are or is required, such plan or plans have been 
prepared pursuant to the ESMF and the Process Framework and have 
been approved by the Association.  
5. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-financing Agreements
(a) 
A Sub-Financing shall be made to the Beneficiaries under a Sub-
financing Agreement signed between the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries and a Beneficiary for CLP Sub-projects or an AL 
Sub-Project, and between the Micro-Finance Institution and Micro-
Credit Beneficiary for a Micro-Credit Sub-project, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including the following, 
whereby: 
(i) 
(x) 
For a CLP Sub-project: 
the Sub-financing shall be made 
on a grant basis. 
(y) 
For an AL Sub-project
:
the terms of the Sub-financing 
shall be described in the Project Operational Manual. 
(z) 
For a Micro-Credit Sub-project
:
the terms of the Sub-
financing shall be described in the Project Operational 
Manual.  
(ii) 
the Beneficiary shall undertake to:  (A) carry out the Sub-project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, social, engineering, financial, and managerial 
standards and practices, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of Financing proceeds other than the Recipient; 
(B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the resources, operations, and 
expenditures relating to the Sub-project; (C) procure the goods, 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
works, and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Sub-financing in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule 2, and use the same exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Sub-project; and 
(iii) 
the Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests 
and those of the Association, including the right to: (A) inspect 
by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the Association shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the operations thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; (B) obtain all information as it, 
or the Association, shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation, and financial condition of Sub-project 
and the Beneficiary; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of 
any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-financing upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the Sub-financing Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of 
the Association and to achieve the Project’s objective, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive the Sub-financing Agreement or any of its provisions. 
G. Safeguards 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental Assessment, Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, and the Process Framework in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association, and the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
aforementioned without the prior written agreement of the Association.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (2) of 
this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
Page  19
-
18 -
 
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (1) consist of the 
following: 
(a) 
Increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-
management sites. 
(b) 
Reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-
management sites. 
(c) 
8 new co-management sub-project proposals are approved as legal 
agreements with the Recipient and implemented by the Closing Date. 
(d) 
70 percent of community members surveyed in participating 
communities are satisfied with project activities to rehabilitate coastal 
fish stocks. 
(e) 
Each targeted community has access to a system of micro-credits and 
poverty reduction measures have been implemented in at least the four 
Initial Pilot Sites. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  
(b)  Shopping  
(c)  Procurement from UN Agencies 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Community Participation 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget
 
(FBS) 
(c)  Single Source Selection (SSS) 
(d)  Least Cost Selection 
(e)  Individual Consultants 
(f)  Quality Based Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; 
(b) 
each contract for works (in case of civil works occurring during 
implementation) estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; (d) each contract for services other than 
consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more; 
(e) each contract for individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; (f) all contract procured on the basis of single source or direct 
contracting; and (g) the first contract of goods procured through National 
Competitive Bidding and the first contract of consultant services procured 
through Selection Based on Quality- and Cost.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
The procurement plan will be updated annually, including also the prior review 
thresholds, in agreement with the project team or as required to reflect the actual 
Project implementation needs and improvements of the procurement 
performance. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed  
(inclusive of taxes) 
 
(1) Sub-projects for Part 
3
of
the Project 
900,000 
100% of disbursed 
amounts 
(2) Goods, services , 
Training and Operating 
Costs for Part 3 of the 
Project 
1,400,000 100% 
Total Amount 
 
2,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
(b) 
under Category 1 for any Sub-project, unless the Sub-Financing 
Agreement for such Sub-project has been made in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Project Operational Manual and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;  
Page  23
-
22 -
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 
Page  24
-
23 -
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2019 to and including 
December 15, 2028 
1
commencing June 15, 2029: to and including 
December 15, 2048 
2
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  25
-
24 -
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Administrative and Financial Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Recipient, outlining administrative, financial management, and accounting 
arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of 
Project implementation and shall be applied by the Recipient in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Association, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Administrative, Financial, and 
Accounting Procedures Manual. 
2. 
“AL Beneficiary” means the individuals, families or community groups whose 
income from fishing is reduced due to co-management initiatives, or to measures 
of rehabilitation of maritime ecosystems, that meet the eligibility criteria set out 
in Section I.F.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in the 
Project Operational Manual, to whom or for whose benefit an AL Sub-grant or 
AL Sub-loan is made or proposed to be made. 
3. 
“AL Sub-grants” means a Sub-grant made to an AL Beneficiary.  
4. 
“AL Sub-project” means a specific development activity to be financed under 
Part 3.1(i) or 3.1(ii) of the Project. 
5. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
6. 
“Beneficiary” means either an AL Beneficiary, a CLP Beneficiary, or a Micro-
Credit Beneficiary, and “Beneficiaries” means more than one such Beneficiary. 
7. 
“CBO” means a community-based organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient. 
8. “CLP” 
means 
the 
Comité Local de Pêcheurs,
 a committee established, or to be 
established, in accordance with relevant laws of the Recipient and consisting of 
local fishermen and stakeholders, responsible for developing co-management 
initiatives and CLP Sub-projects for their local communities. 
Page  26
-
25 -
 
9. 
“CLP Sub-project” means a specific development activity under Part 1.(i) and (ii) 
of the Project consisting of proposed co-management initiatives to be carried out 
by a CLP Beneficiary and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing through a Sub-grant. 
10. “CLPA” 
means 
the
 Conseil Local de Pêche Artisanale 
or the Local Artisanal 
Fisheries Council, a fisheries council
,
established at supra-community level 
composed of representatives of the CLPs and the Ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of fisheries and with responsibility for consolidating and coordinating 
local co-management initiatives developed or proposed by the CLPs in the 
CLPAs geographical area. 
11. 
“CLP Beneficiary” means a local community which meets the eligibility criteria 
set out in Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in 
the Project Operational Manual and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-grant is 
made or proposed to be made. 
12. 
“CNCPM” means the Recipient’s National Consultative Council for Marine 
Fishers. 
13. “COMO” 
means 
Cellule Opérationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre, 
the implementation 
unit for the Project established within DPM (
Direction des Pêches Maritimes
).  
14. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
15. 
“Co-management” means a system of co-management of fishing resources, 
including area-based co-management, established between the Recipient and 
local fisheries committees. 
16. 
“Co-management Agreement” means the co-management agreement signed by 
the Minister in charge of fisheries for each CLP Sub-project. 
17. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
18. 
“DPM” means the 
Direction des Pêches Maritimes, 
the Directorate for Marine 
Fisheries within the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  27
-
26 -
 
19. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the assessment, dated August 21, 2008 and 
published by Infoshop on July 8, 2008, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, describing the potential adverse environmental impact of the Project 
and measures for offsetting, reducing, or mitigating such impact, and including 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
20. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
framework setting out modalities to be followed in assessing the potential 
adverse environmental and social impact associated with activities to be 
implemented under the Project and the specific Sub-Projects, and the measures to 
be taken to offset, reduce, or mitigate such adverse impact.  
21. 
“GEF” means the Global Environment Facility. 
22. 
“GEF Grant” means the grant in the amount of six million Dollars ($6,000,000) 
to be provided by the Bank, acting as implementing agency of the GEF, to assist 
in financing the Project. 
23. 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank, acting as 
implementing agency of the GEF and the Recipient providing for the GEF Grant. 
24. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
25. 
“IBRD” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  
26. 
“Initial Pilot Sites” means the pilot sites of Ouakam, Ngaparou, Foudiougne and 
Bétanti.  
27. 
“Micro-Credit Sub-project” means a specific development activity to be financed 
under Part 3.1(iii) or 3.2(i) of the Project. 
28. 
“Micro-Credit Beneficiary” means: (i) the fishers, women fish processors and 
fish transporters (
mareyeurs
)
who choose to leave the fishing sector to find 
alternative income-generating activities outside the fishing sector; or (ii) women 
living in the target sites that choose to obtain a Micro-Credit to start or expand a 
micro-enterprise, and that meet the eligibility criteria set out in Section I.F.4 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further elaborated in the Project Operational 
Manual, to whom or for whose benefit a Micro-Credit is made or proposed to be 
made. 
Page  28
-
27 -
 
29. 
“Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries” means on the Effective Date, 
the 
Ministère de l’Economie Maritime, des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et 
de la Pisciculture,
 the Recipient’s Ministry of Maritime Economy and Transport 
or, thereafter, any other Ministry of the Recipient in charge of the fishing sector. 
30. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental recurrent expenditures incurred by the 
COMO on account of the Project implementation including office supplies, fuel 
and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and other 
communications charges, office rent and insurance for vehicles, motorcycles and 
office equipment and furniture, travel and supervision. 
31. 
“Operational Manuals” means the Project Operational Manual and the 
Administrative and Financial Manual. 
32. 
“Process Framework” means document prepared and adopted by the Recipient on 
August 21, 2008, and published by Infoshop on July 8, 2008, and satisfactory to 
the Association, to guide the mitigation of potential negative impacts on the 
livelihoods on populations resident in the targeted areas, as the same may be 
modified from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
33. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
34. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
35. 
“Program” means the program set forth or referred to in the letter of Sector 
Policy dated April, 2007 from the Recipient to the Association, describing a set 
of objectives, policies and actions for promoting the Recipient’s fisheries sector 
to be one of the it’s key drivers of economic growth.
 
36. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Micro-Finance Institution” means an existing 
micro-finance agency to be selected by the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01(a) 
of this Agreement and complying with at least the following requirements: (i) the 
micro-finance agency is a well established national agency; (ii) which has the 
ability to cover at least the geographic intervention area of the Project; and 
(iii) has prior experience in the micro-finance for the fisheries sector. 
Page  29
-
28 -
 
37. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the legislation pursuant to 
which the Project Implementing Entity has been established and is operating. 
38. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section I.E.1 of Annex 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the eligibility criteria 
and appraisal, approval, contracting and supervision arrangements and 
procedures for the Sub-grants and Sub-loans under Part 3 of the Project, 
including a model Sub-financing Agreement, and the detailed arrangements and 
procedures for: (i) institutional coordination and day-to-day execution of the 
Project; (ii) disbursement and financial management; (iii) procurement; 
(iv) 
environmental and social safeguards management; (v) monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting and communication; and (vi) such other administrative, 
financial, technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be 
required for the Project. 
39. 
“Sub-financing” means a Sub-grant or a Micro-Credit and “Sub-financings” 
means, collectively, all such Sub-grants and Micro-Credits. 
40. 
Sub-financing Agreement” means an agreement concluded between, on the one 
part, the Recipient or the Micro-Finance Institution and a Beneficiary, on the 
other part, for the purpose of extending a Sub-financing to such Beneficiary. 
41. 
“Sub-grant” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Financing for 
the purpose of financing eligible expenditures required for a Sub-project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.F.2, I.F.3 or I.F.4 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
42. 
“Sub-project” means either a AL Sub-project, a CLP Sub-project, or a Micro-
Credit Sub-project and “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sub-projects. 
43. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Micro-Finance Institution. 
44. 
“Technical Support Institution” means the technical institution to be recruited 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement to support implementation of 
Part 3 of the Project. 
45. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated 
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
Page  30
-
29 -
 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly 
related to training preparation and implementation.  
46. 
“ZPPs” or “Protected Fishing Zones” means the areas to be established under 
Part 2.1 of the Project where fishing would be limited in order to protect key 
habitat of fish stocks. 
47. 
“ZPP Management Plan” means the management plans to be prepared under 
Part 2.1(ii) of the Project for each ZPP and that will define the management and 
conservation measures applicable in each ZPP.
 
